ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. One message: On 15 July 2015, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 4 for 2015 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 3 of 2015. By its decision the Constitutional Court ruled on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and declared the provision of art. 2, para. 6 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 Colleagues, according to the weekly programme we have adopted, as point one today, we should discuss at: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There has been a report from the lead Committee on Agriculture and Food and a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. We'll first hear the committee's report. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the The law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, No 502-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015. The Commission on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 8 July 2015, at which it discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015. In the work of the committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Tsvetan Dimitrov Deputy Minister, Stiliyan Mitev Director of the Directorate of Land Relations and Comassation, Kiril Stoyanov Head of the Department of the same Directorate, Magdalena Dakova Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service and Ivelina Koleva Chief Legal Consult in the same Directorate. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria were also present. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The main group of amendments to the Bill is related to the use of state and municipal pastures, meria and meadows. The procedure for renting them or renting them to owners or users of establishments with registered pasture animals shall be precise. All users of such areas which do not own animals or their number do not meet the size of the areas they use shall, by 1 February 2016, acquire animals whose number and type correspond to the area of an animal unit as defined in the Law. Otherwise, the mayors of municipalities, respectively, the directors of the districts of........................ will have to terminate the contracts. In the event of failure to comply with this obligation, penalties are laid down for officials. An annual control of the number and type of animals is envisaged and an order is signed for the amendment and termination of contracts already concluded which do not comply with the requirements of the Law. Contracts to be terminated will not be considered as a legal basis for support under the Agricultural Support Act and no subsidies will be received for the areas concerned. In addition, it is proposed, in the distribution of pastures, meria and meadows, where possible, that applicants may use the same areas that they have already used under expired contracts. The requirement is that the lists of properties declared as distribution contain data on the average annual rent payment for the land or municipality. The second group of changes is related to the payment order of the amounts for the use of adjacent areas to buildings or facilities from the assets of the terminated organisations under § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law (the former TTC) due from 10 February 2011 until the acquisition of ownership of the land. The different assumptions for payment periods are settled, which take into account the moment when ownership of buildings or facilities is acquired. As a form of preliminary administrative control, it is envisaged that the decisions of municipal agriculture services relating to the restoration of property, compensation for owners and landing of citizens should also be signed by officials appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. At the same time, the period for amending decisions on the restoration of ownership of agricultural land is extended from two to three years. Analog proposals are made in respect of the Law on the Restoration of Property in Forests and Land of the Forest Fund. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose amendments to the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, proposing a change in the purpose of municipal pastures, measures and meadows to be allowed only when a common development plan for the respective territory is in place or for the construction of sites of national and primary importance. Orders for completion of non-finished proceedings are envisaged. There are also a number of changes to other laws relating to the change in the name of the Law. According to the importer, the bill will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expressed the fear that the envisaged order to comply with the requirements of the law of the already concluded contracts for municipal pastures, merri and meadows could negatively affect municipal budgets. In the subsequent discussion by the DPS parliamentary group, they said they would support the Bill, but kept the specific texts to be heard before all interested parties were voted. In general, the MPs agreed that it was imperative to amend the Law and said they would support the Bill by making a commitment between first and second readings to make proposals to refine the texts. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the House of Agriculture, No 502-01-55, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u3	The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u4	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the The law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, No 502-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015. At its meeting held on 15 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Stilian Mitev, Director of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Directorate of Land Relations and Comasion, Mrs. Magdalena Dakova, Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Services, Mrs. Valentina Shishkova, State Expert at the Directorate of Land Relations and Comasion. The bill was presented by Mr. Stilian Mitev. It is envisaged that pastures, meres and meadows from the state, respectively the municipal land fund, will be allocated only to livestock farmers without a tendering procedure in respect of their expired contracts. An opportunity to amend and terminate contracts concluded in the event of a non-compliance between the number and type of animals and areas employed shall be established. The bill also introduces preliminary administrative control over the decisions on the recovery of property rights under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and the Law on the restoration of ownership of forests and land by the forest fund and extends the period for amending the decisions on the restoration of ownership of agricultural land. The Law also amended the order for payment of the amounts for the use of adjacent areas to buildings or facilities from the assets of the terminated organisations under § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land due from 10 February 2011 until the acquisition of land ownership. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of Minister Taneva, will he say anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to present to you the reasons for the proposed amendments to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and, above all, the main reasons why we are making these amendments. Before this, I would like to thank all the MPs from all the political groups who supported the draft in the Commission, as well as the Presidency for putting us on the agenda. The changes we present today are a continuation of the amendments to the same Law, which we adopted in February at the Council of Ministers and which you adopted in the National Assembly afterwards. The main objective of the changes is the direction of support and management of public resources from permanent grasslands of the state and municipalities, namely with priority to livestock farmers. In February, we took the first step, introduced a national criterion for eligibility of support for users of such areas, namely the legal basis. Although difficult, albeit in administrative order and not so complete and best prepared for this campaign, we carried it successfully with the efforts of everyone, with the understanding of the industry. What did the analysis of this campaign show in terms of permanent grassland and animals? The permanent grasslands declared for support will not, of course, remain the same as you know, subject to an eligibility check to meet the conditions for good condition, so the data are preliminary. The total requested permanent grassland for support is 439 thousand. 394 hc. Of that, 146,000. 507 hca are claimed without users having animals, or we are talking about about about about one third of the fund, which is declared and eligible for assistance, is made by users who do not have animals. The average stockability of one livestock unit according to the results of the campaign for direct payments is 0.4 hc per animal unit, with the minimum norm being 1 hc. What resources does the state have, or what resources do we have as a country? I'm going to say a few numbers from the statistics after 2007. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The amount of aid is estimated at EUR 10 million, i.e. EUR 10 million. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Dka. Of these, more than 10.2 million. Dka are a state and municipal land fund. The main fund of permanent grassland is municipal. If we are going in the direction of increasing the absorption of this fund with the relevant events, we have the chance to increase stockpiling and needs for the different species of animals from such a fund. Based on this data and the situation at the moment, as well as on the fact that we are looking for tools with which the possible resources that we have are minimal and, above all, European, as aid funds, to direct them towards animals. With the current changes, we propose a continuation of the changes from February, and the current ones that I present are possible precisely because we made the Februaryers, to introduce a criterion for eligibility of the support from next year, which will be possible if the user of the relevant permanent grassland fund does not have the relevant number of animals, even if the mayor does not terminate his contract, even though we place that obligation on him, this contract does not accept it and register it for support. What is the purpose of change? The means of support that are provided for permanent grassland, whose primary purpose and function is not to be maintained in a good condition, for which no doubt costs are needed, but to feed livestock farming in Bulgaria, to benefit from livestock farmers. This is the main change in the Law that we are currently proposing. I will, of course, ask this Bill if we are able to accept it until the beginning of your vacation, because in the summer the next but regular procedures for the allocation of such a fund between, first, the municipalities, and then the state should take into account the conditions under which the application will take place next year and bring their activities into line with the adopted changes as they are adopted. Of course, the picture in different areas is different. I'm talking about national standards. We have municipalities in which if we increase the absorption of the fund, for which we will apply additional measures both in the legislation and within the scope of the Rural Development Programme, which will stimulate the absorption of more such fund, there is a municipality, for example the municipality of Glavinitsa, where the reserve is 0.1 kca per animal unit. In practice, we do not have an area where the need for animals is covered by what is required by the technological norm for animal farming. But in some municipalities, the situation is worse. These are the main changes. This is the main and most important change. We must make sure that the limited resource of permanent grassland is used as intended. This is national policy, namely for animals. I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs. According to the opinion of the so determined hypothesis for the users of such a non-animal fund, it is undeniable if the respective mayor who has committed the public resource or a State does not formally terminate the contract, then these areas will not be able to be registered in the scope of the next direct payment campaign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u7	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u8	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of 2015, we adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Now we are dealing with it again, and there will probably be more proposals for changes by the end of the year. This is because this Law is one of the most important for agricultural production. The need for such a speedy discussion is required by the fact that the problem of the use of agricultural land as intended must be resolved urgently.. as already said the Minister, and especially the pastures that must be provided to real farmers. That is why I and some of my colleagues have taken the initiative at the beginning of 2013, and I am pleased, and thank Minister Taneva for taking the problem seriously and having the ambition by February 2016, perhaps shortly afterwards, to resolve this problem. The bill proposes solutions to several major, pending problems, of which I will point out two. The first is to solve problems for livestock farmers who are experiencing great difficulties and a screaming need for animal grazing. Such are ruminants: cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats. At the same time, in our calculations, over 40% of pastures, meres and meadows are managed by people who do not raise animals and have only the obligation to maintain them in a good agricultural and environmental condition, for which, of course, they receive subsidies. We consider this to be a paradox - it is unwise that this natural resource should not be used for its intended purpose and that Bulgaria, which exported animal products to 4 continents, should now import half of the milk and meat and about 90% of the wool. Since this is a first reading and we are discussing the philosophy of the Law, I will point to some more figures. Paradox is also the fact that now with the available pastures, meria and meadows, as Minister Taneva said, we provide only 0.4 hectares to an animal unit, and the Netherlands, for which we know what land it has, provides animals with 1.17 hectares and Europe with 1.5 hectares. This means that we cannot provide our ruminants with the necessary grazing, even though we have such a huge fund. This is due to the highly disturbed structure in agriculture. Now more than 80% of the land is cultivated, and 93% of the land is occupied with cereals and oil crops. The size, relative share of pastures is only 9%, while the average for Europe is 33%, which means that much of our pastures, meres and meadows are broken down. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Regional Agriculture Services will have a serious task to carry out an inspection. But I hope it will happen and we recommend it. We will make our proposals in the period between first and second readings. I hope that there will be some adjustments here, because it is not normal that we cannot provide the necessary grazing, since we have such a huge natural resource. The issue of unused territories is also unresolved. Many of our lands are almost turned into jungles that are not used and in any case have to be exploited further so that we can provide grazing animals. The second problem is the use of the land and the buildings and facilities attached to them, usually these are the former farmyards in the TTZS and the APCs. The proposed amendments shall specify decisions on who and how to use them. Therefore, the Bill also solves this important problem. There are also those in charge who will sign the documents, so everything necessary to solve these two major problems is laid down in this Bill. I would like to say to my fellow Members that the ABB Parliamentary Group will support the Bill and will support all reasonable and appropriate proposals further with a view to transforming our Bulgarian agricultural production and our food industry into leading directions in the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u9	Thank you, Professor Stankov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u10	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Professor. Stankov, you are a recognized Bulgarian agrarian scientist, organizer and head of agricultural education and science in Bulgaria. You were also a minister of service and you launched interesting ideas in this period. Today, in your speech, you stressed that a bill that deserves support is currently being proposed and an instrument that improves the structure of the use of some of the agricultural land, the pasture fund. However, you pointed out alarming figures about what part of the land in Bulgaria is cultivated and what a huge part of the arable land is for cereals that we export out and we import livestock production, which is export of national income. You, as a person I described to you, what other mechanisms for changing the structure of agricultural production do you see and would support today as a member of parliament, of those you maintained as a minister of service? This question remains only hinted in your speech and seeks a solution in policy optimization. That's my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Any other lines? I won't. Professor Stankov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u12	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for making the line. It concerns how we will solve this extremely important problem for Bulgaria.. how we will provide ruminants, because there are other figures. We once had about a million and seven hundred thousand cattle, and now it's less than six hundred thousand. It was about 11 million. sheep, and now it's about a million and three hundred thousand. History does not remember a worse state of Bulgarian livestock than it is now. Smaller numbers, the statistics haven't proven anything. And yet we can't provide for these animals either, because, as I said, much of the measures, pastures and meadows are broken. The first measure that I see is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Regional Services to make a serious review and to restore measures, pastures and meadows in this state, to restore the status as it should be. I think that's what's gonna happen. Together with this, we propose and have introduced the National Strategy for the Development of Agriculture in Bulgaria in the next 20 years. There we have pointed out all the important details that need to be fulfilled and taken place in this period so that we can really increase the number of animals. The reserves are in this: to use the land intensively, because we will not raise ruminants only in pastures, but we will grow them and rebreed them, which means that the intensive crops........................................................................................................................................................ Now we are highly polarized: with a very low milkness about 2 tons, and there are farms that have 10 tons. This shows that we have reservations that we haven't used as much as we do. We have potential, though. That's the stuff, but there are other things we'll analyze further and propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u13	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. For the next speech there is the popular representative Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u14	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Once again, the law on ownership and use of agricultural land is changing. My colleague mentioned it earlier. The month of February was the last change to the same subject, that is, the subject is the access of livestock farmers to meria, pastures and meadows. The reason for this further change was the result of the pressure exerted by the non-governmental sector, as well as the severe situation of the sector of "Life', especially after the Russian embargo, as well as milk cattle farming and the dropping of milk quotas. BSP left Bulgaria will support this Bill because our view is that it creates rules that allow farmers access to this fund to be provided, although one year of useful time has been missed to happen support for 2015. That is, we are going for 2016. I would like to remind you that in February, we proposed such changes, which required revision of the treaties that were concluded, especially by municipalities, as we have said, a large part of this fund is in the municipalities, but then this proposal was not adopted with different motives, mostly related in the area of law, that we are breaking laws relating to contractual relations, long-term contracts and so on, but I am glad that we are signing a procedure which, in our view, can be applied successfully if the Law is adopted in time and all the necessary instructions are made, for 2016. The facts that were set out for 2015 in respect of employed meadows and pastures by strange companies, or the so-called fake farmers, show that there is no particular difference in recent years in the support system and also the people, or the circle of companies that benefited from this scheme. I have information from 2013, when about 150 companies, which are related or very far from the sector, have rented primarily municipal land. Then, for 2013, the pastures they rented were about a million and a half. Of these 150 companies mostly own or are supported within millions of levs. Now you're talking about $1 million. 465 of the municipal fund, which are respectively applications for non-animal support...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u15	Total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u16	Overall, but 95% is assumed to be municipal meadows and pastures, as municipalities are also the largest owner of these areas. Support for the Law is related to and perhaps to proposals from us relating to the improvement or clearing of some texts that concern us. In the first place, the huge number of checks. The livestock farmers shall be continuously subjected to checks. They are checked once when applying for support, then when receiving national payments in October. A third check has now been introduced between 1 and 20 February to determine whether there is a 30% difference in the number of animals. This may be good to carry out in the professional capacity, provided that you have established a continuous information system that generates information on the movement of the number of animals in real time and has the possibility that each, including municipalities, have this information to make their estimates or reduce the areas provided to the livestock farmers under the system without contracts concluded or without participation in auctions. It is not clear and the 30% adjustment for which contracts are the first ones, the second ones. The revised is at least necessary to really know these 30% reduction in the area when it will be carried out and which auctions we are talking about. So one of our concerns really is the coincidence of the huge number of checks to be made. We also talked with our colleagues that the measures are a special category of areas that must be accessible to all livestock farmers in the territory of the locality. Perhaps they should be considered to be preserved and the access of each one to be free without being included in the common auction system, as it is closest to the respective settlement. That's also a question we're going to ask. We believe that the adoption of these proposals will enable us to take the necessary useful steps towards supporting the sector, indeed with real European funds, which they have so far been very difficult to realise in the common system that has been implemented, i.e. bidding auctions and corresponding financial losses and funds that they could not afford. I would like to put a question to which, during the discussion, I could not get an adequate answer. We are talking about the proposal to change the purpose of agricultural land, we are talking about pastures, meres and meadows from the municipal land fund to happen when common planning for the respective territory enters into force. For us this is a very relieved procedure, knowing that at the beginning of 2016 these plans should be ready. The procedure in force so far envisions two thirds of the municipal council to vote when necessary. That is, easing the procedure can once again create prerequisites for a large part of municipal meadows and pastures to be excluded. You probably have no way of knowing what will happen, but this procedure with the general planning is considerably less relaxed than what has so far been realized as a practice in municipalities. It is true that there are important infrastructure sites. For them, we do not comment, but in the general planning plan it is possible to fall even with their creation areas, which are then used not for their intended purpose and generally reduce the fund available. Perhaps in some municipalities this will be a very sensitive reduction. The support of the Law means that we are going in the right direction to support the sector and to enable it to emerge somewhat from the crisis in which, unfortunately, the trends are negative at least this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u17	- What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u18	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, dear Madame Chairman! At your speech, I have a few lines to do. Yeah, you're right about the resource. If we are looking at the statistics on the support that I have announced for direct payments, or about 30%, or one third of the declared layer of permanent grassland is not one of the livestock farmers, and if we assume that the average rate is about 45 BGN. the dea assistance, because apart from the SPP, this layer is usually in other areas that receive additional payments, we are talking perhaps about about about about 60 million. lv. A resource that from next year will no longer be given to companies that only keep them in good condition, or users, but will go to farmers. Regarding your concerns about checks. We are only talking here about official information and official inspection, according to the VET IS system, which registers the number of animals. In no way will farmers be aggravated. Secondly, we will accept any proposal for stricter control and a very clear text that guarantees the fair distribution of this fund, that is to say the number of animals that exist and is registered in the national system Vet IS, which verifies the existence of the animal, to be established on one date, to be clear so as not to transfer a different number of animals over the year more persons than those entitled to use that resource. With regard to the municipalities, the change that we are now proposing is a continuation of February. The treaties that concluded municipalities with non-animals, unfortunately, the legislation was such that it allowed it, and we, if we had only gone to a verification situation, would have just established it and there was no way to change it. Even now, there are many complaints from farmers from local authorities coming to the Ministry, and we, as a state, have no way of imposing an obligation or responsibilities that we have said. We do so that if the legislation is so signed, even if the local authorities do not comply with the requirement to terminate the contract, if there is no such number of animal units, it is simply that the contract that concluded the municipality will not be accepted in the system of legal basis for support. That's the main difference. Otherwise, we're inconvenient. I have a lot of answers to parliamentary questions that are always about cases in the municipality. And we go as a government authority and we simply require information, but we have nothing else to do with the local authorities. Regarding your concerns about easing the regime for change of purpose. Our idea was right back to aggravate it, and if you have proposals in another direction, of course, we will accept them, but the idea of this proposal is the change of purpose to happen in exceptional cases. If this terrain falls within the scope of urbanized territory, on a national site or is part of a common construction plan, it is exactly the opposite idea that the purpose of this fund cannot be changed so that we can only absorb it. We've had 10 million. $800,000. Decare pastures until 1990. At the moment, part of them are broken. It is certainly a much smaller part, however. The main part is grown, another part already has forest vegetation, but within the scope of all those who have lost their purpose, they represent more than 60% of the total fund, which Bulgaria has benefited from. We with appropriate instruments should do so, albeit not 100%, but, according to our data, at least 70% of this fund that has been used, we can achieve.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u19	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now for a statement there is Mrs. Saliha Emin, and after her, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u20	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Council of Ministers proposes a draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. The bill, as presented by the importer, was adopted at first reading at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on the 8th, and we are discussing it today in plenary. The Law basically provides for all users of permanent grasslands, which includes merri, meadows and pastures from the State Land Fund and the municipal land fund, which do not own animals or their number does not meet the requirements that we adopted just a few months ago, to have the opportunity to purchase animals whose number and type meet the area employed by them, according to the standard of area of one animal unit and within February 2016. The Law lays down that users who have entered into leases or leases on pastures, measures and meadows before the date of 24 February 2015 undertake to translate them in accordance with the requirements of the Law. They undertake to present to the mayor of the municipality, respectively to the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, all necessary documents. If they do not meet these requirements, the lease or lease contracts shall be automatically terminated. If the officials concerned fail to comply with the requirements of the Law, fines will be imposed on them. Ladies and gentlemen, so far, it is good, but it is good today when discussing the Draft at first reading in plenary to hear the opinions of all parliamentary groups, to see into the philosophy of the Law, to determine the pros and cons, the benefits of these changes, respectively, and the effect on the development of agriculture in the country. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms welcomes the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's proposals, Madam Minister, with regard to the control of the procedures for granting state and municipal measures and pastures. Those new provisions provide for checks to be carried out by the mayor of the municipality concerned, respectively by the Director of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development for those contracts concluded for the period 1 to 20 February. Those provisions will continue to apply. Gambling control is at this very moment an appropriate measure. This is the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We are a Member State of the European Union, and there is nothing more natural than to have transparency and rules that apply in the same way to all farmers. In one rule of law, everyone has the right to equal access in the presence of a legal basis. In this case, I refer to all farmers who own active establishments to have the real chance to take advantage of the possibility of directly providing pastures by the State or by the municipality. In the Bill they find place and conflicting texts. For example, under the Law on Laws, the retroactive effect of a law can only be granted exceptionally. It is necessary to clarify with regard to the old order of granting municipal permanent grassland to both animal owners and those persons who have undertaken to maintain them in good agricultural and environmental condition for a period of 5 years. With the proposed changes these persons will be deprived of legal basis, their contracts will be terminated if they do not become livestock farmers by February 2016. If the person strictly complied with the terms of the contract concluded between him and the municipality, what do we do from now on? Will this measure be adequate for the development of agriculture, or will we again witness a legal chaos and numerous lawsuits and benefits in favour of tenants? Here, above all, I refer to those farmers who have made commitments under the measure "Biological agriculture" and "Agro-environment and climate." After all, in one legal dispute, the costs will naturally be at the expense of not someone else, but of the municipal budget. Not to mention whether municipalities have the opportunity to bear these costs in these limited and small budgets. Each one of us knows very well that keeping animals is a serious activity. Serious investments are also required for bringing in one establishment in good working order, colleagues. Will these investments be made? Who will exercise control or again witness imaginary schemes and virtual animals that will move in space? If the Ministry of Agriculture and Food takes the commitment that it will carry out constant control and will not allow the circumvention of the Law. Fine, if it has such capacity, let us, Madam Minister, acquaint us today with these measures that you will take. Otherwise, given that 27% of the measurements and pastures rented or rented are used by persons who do not have animals, I would think that a slight lobbying is allowed here in order to satisfy one's demands. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on the ownership and use of agricultural land is extremely important from the point of view that it covers a very wide range of people. Every change leads to itself and many unknowns. Each change creates a slight turmoil and tension among farmers. Therefore, when adopting certain texts, it is good to become lawmakers and to pay attention to the representatives of different industries. The ministry needs to do a serious analysis after today's debate on the situation that has arisen. In its reasons for the bill, the importer stresses that another amendment is made as a result of numerous signals and complaints by farmers, mostly livestock farmers. My question is: these complaints of what nature are, of which regions are, how many are there? Have these complaints been checked by you? This is with regard to complaints and the reasons for submitting the bill. Therefore, it is good here in the National Assembly to get an answer to these questions. According to the current Law, pastures, meres and meadows are distributed among the rightful ones who have registered establishments, respectively land, according to their number and species, but not more than 10 acres per animal unit for a specific category from 1 to 7 and up to 20 acres from 8th to 10th category. We should get up-to-date information from the portfolio ministry on the number of pasture animals in order to meet their needs. Is there a shortage of measures and pastures? Which municipalities? What is the shortage caused by the livestock sector? Are there any livestock establishments in every region of the country where there are state and municipal measures and pastures? It is also good to ask ourselves the following question: the main reason why livestock farmers cannot have the necessary measures and pastures are financial, i.e. lack of funds, or because of the opaque procedures they do not have access to the auctions and procedures taking place in the respective municipalities? There is a vicious practice and many farmers in our constituencies are worried about this fact. Ladies and gentlemen, the DPS Parliamentary Group will support those texts in the submitted Bill, in which there is logic and meaning and, above all, they are in the interest of farmers from all sectors. The decisions we make must be fair and not at the expense of one or another of the different industries. These decisions should be taken after thorough analysis, following the hearing of representatives from different sectors. Therefore, our proposal is not to shorten the deadline for submitting proposals between first and second readings. The Commission of Agriculture and Food together with the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to initiate meetings if we have conflicting texts in the Bill, with stakeholders, as well as with the National Association of Municipalities. The changes must be adequate, and once again I repeat the changes. Our parliamentary group will support the Bill at first reading, taking advantage of our right to submit our proposals between the two readings. I hope that the ruling majority will support them and not reject them just because they are proposed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u21	- What's the line? I won't. Madam Minister, answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u22	I'll answer the questions asked. In the presentation of the Bill, I gave statistics on the number of animals. It's turned into animal units because it's easier. The claims in the direct payment campaign are 734 thousand. 058 animal units. There are 1 million registered in the system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. 103. Of these, in animal species, I can say that cattle meat products, without pasture livestock, have been claimed to be a little over 100,000. the number of animals. For the sheep, so I wouldn't go wrong in the system, and Mr. Stankov said it was about $1 million. 200,000. At the moment, I am not prepared to say the exact number in the system registered by direct payments. At the beginning of the presentation of the Law I explained that the shortage of pastures for Bulgarian livestock farmers is more than twice their needs, considered 1 hectare per animal unit. Currently the insurance is 0.4 hectares per animal unit. The pasture fund at our disposal, or publicly permanently grassland, was 10.8 million. Dka. At present, the eligible for support, which is stated, is 4.2 million. So, like a third of it is for people who don't have animals. The main idea of the change is to support the business sector as part of balanced agriculture policies, and the funds that can be directed as types of support, national and European, on this third eligible layer at the moment, to focus on animals. That's the point of helping. I know that the municipalities had many questions and many ambiguities about the implementation in February of the procedure. We had bilateral meetings. I know there is not much agreement on their part on all points, but in the end 170 municipalities of 256 successfully completed the February (or before) campaign under the procedure for the distribution of permanent grassland according to the norm of animals. There is no municipality based on the total number of registered animals, in which at the moment the average rate of the permanent grassland used is more than 1 hectare. Not one! On the basis of the national reference, for example the Regional Agricultural Service of Sofia is with more than 1 hectare, but this is normal. The municipality of Gabrovo is also over one unit, as well as the region of Pernik. I don't think these are the typical areas. The shortage is pretty serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u23	To speak, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, we of the Reformation bloc will support this bill. A lot was said about the good things he predicted to happen. I'll take the liberty of mentioning one more. I'm surprised it hasn't been mentioned before. That's why I'm taking the floor. From the very beginning of the Bill, colleagues, you will see that he is trying to help remove an injustice that lasts perhaps 25 years in relation to some landowners who have not been restored to this day to land within real borders or have not been restored to them. It is about the fact that the Minister will now be able, when addressed by such citizens, to persons who have failed to recover the land, to cancel decisions of the respective municipal agriculture services and to bring these procedures to a reasonable conclusion. This problem has continued for 25 years. We in the Reformation Block continue to receive to this day signals. Many people who have problems reclaiming their property, reclaiming their owned agricultural land. It's obviously a serious problem. It is obvious that its current arrangements, as given, namely, the agriculture services at their discretion and their discretion in open violations of procedures or in the Law to cancel their acts, clearly does not work well. I welcome this proposal of changes in the case under the supervision of the Minister to happen this process, including being able to cancel the wicked decisions of these municipal services, and to oblige them to comply with the law. I use the minister's presence to appeal to have a slender organization because there are a lot of complaints in order to respond to the legitimate claims of these people and to really restore their land to real limits or not, but to actually restore their property so that they can enjoy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u25	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Dobrin Danev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! We have heard previous colleagues about the desire of all parliamentary parties to support the amendment of the Law. I would like to summarize everything that has been said so far with the belief that the proposal for a change to the Law on the Assistance of Property and Use of Agricultural Land should have happened much earlier. That was the wish. I don't want every single political force taking credit for this. In the end, we all believe that this is useful for farmers and farmers, who in the last two or three years have put very serious pressure on this to happen. We are talking about a very small area used to use an animal compared to the European Union, while at the same time around 30%, namely 1 million. 465 thousand. dka enjoy contracts concluded by companies that have nothing to do with agricultural production, in particular with livestock production. These are European subsidies that we want to give to our producers at a very difficult time for them, because we know the embargo against Ukraine and Russia and the great competition of our livestock farmers in relation to the entry of goods from fellow producers from neighbouring countries at much lower prices. The dairy producers are placed against the wall and the help we will give them is not to go to companies that do not produce, but to go to them, I think at this point it is a very serious shoulder. It is true that we eventually found the way out to break these contracts, namely in the legal basis part, and for them were the discussions that went on for quite some time. We believe that this is the way, we support it. I would also like to mention a problem facing farmers, especially with the pastures of municipal property. We have asked questions to the Minister, namely that many of the pastures of municipal property are not in the eligible layer. When farmers conclude contracts with municipalities, it turns out that they do not receive the subsidy for the contracts concluded; they are reduced in terms of eligibility and thus deprive them of the normal subsidy they should receive. Therefore, our proposal to the Minister is to find a form and a way to solve this problem. After all, both I and BSP left Bulgaria will support the Bill by reserveing the right between first and second readings to make the relevant changes not only in this part, but also in other parts of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. Danev. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Belova, after her Mr. Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u28	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The Party GERB parliamentary group will support the submitted bill. I will not dwell again on the data presented by Minister Taneva and which we were familiar with in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. I will continue the words of Mr Danev yes, he is right that these changes are expected and requested by Bulgarian farmers. The modification of these texts will specify the procedure for the dedication of the meres, pastures and meadows to real livestock farmers. As Mr Danev said, for many years there have been changes concerning the dedication of these pastures, measures and meadows to real livestock farmers, and not to companies that have nothing to do with real production and real livestock farming. Madam Minister, congratulations to you and your team for having the political will to offer these changes, which will be real support for Bulgarian livestock farming. From what we have heard, we hope that they will also be supported unanimously in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u29	Any lines to Mrs. Bellova? I won't. Mr. Petrov, you're up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable Members, I would like to draw attention to § 6a of the proposed amendments to the Law, which I would congratulate the importers for bringing in clear conditions under which, from now on, the status of the grassland will be changed. It has been shown that this can only be done through the relevant spatial plan or in the implementation of objects of national importance, which is very important. Personally, it seems to me that if not in this House, a proposal will be submitted in the next National Assembly and hopefully be submitted in time to enter into a procedure, the grasslands turned into fields to restore their status. I'll tell you, here is the people's representative Rumen Zhelev from the village of Livada, where his family is, he is not from where there are no meadows, or in the village of Chukarka, where there are no measures and pastures. Everything's broke, everything's turned into fields. What do they get from these fields? This is one of the reasons why we have problems in livestock farming. In this regard, Madam Minister, it seems to me that the attention of the population, rather the livestock farmers, should be informed so that they know and pressure the relevant municipal services, that they can receive additional funds other than those for which you said Within five years they can really start to receive serious funds and be interested in increasing their own fund because it is really insufficient. The other thing that impressed me while I was getting acquainted with the Bill is that finally there is clarity for farmers, mostly farmers who use a building fund and so far some of them were very worried that they would be forced to pay rent for long periods of time. In this amendment, you have indicated a period which is entirely tolerated. Those who want to deal seriously with livestock can quickly proceed to the payment of rents and passage into procedures for the purchase of the property concerned. Finally, of course, as a representative of the Patriotic Front, I cannot fail to listen carefully to what the DPS is saying. There was a hint that there was some lobbying in this bill. Madam Minister, I want you to be an even bigger lobbyist than you are right now! Lobbying for farmers, lobbying for farmers with all the possibilities...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u31	Mr. Petrov, do I hear correctly that you insult the Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u32	I would really like to see in her face an even more serious lobbyist that she wants with all her actions and with the entire Ministry and administration to protect the interests of Bulgarian farmers and Bulgarian farmers something that, unfortunately, we did not see in the previous mandates by the respective leading ministers and their teams.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u33	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Zhelev. I hope for a statement, not a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u34	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! This is perhaps a seventy-seventh or seventy-something amendment to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land since it was adopted on 31 March 1991, or this makes an average of three, three whole and something amendments per year. Obviously, we maintain momentum and trend. This amendment is indeed necessary and we support it. I will be brief, because I will have to repeat some of what the pre-speakers have said, indeed he restores a justice. Finally, the real owners of the people who actually breed animals will be able without auction or competition to use the measures and pastures that Bulgaria has. And these million and a half acres, as an absolute figure that currently benefits from persons who are legal or physical, who simply handle the regulations well or have the necessary connections, will go where necessary. It wasn't just something very important that was said here. The hidden text in this Law is that in this way indirectly we will help farmers because they already know on the basis of real numbers and numbers, i.e. 10 acres per animal unit for land to eighth category and 20 acres per tenth category and will be able, God forbid, to increase the number of animals they grow and, as we have heard from Prof. Stankov, the number of animals grown in Bulgaria has fallen heavily. This is the first step. I also hope that we will be able to really increase in the future as an absolute number of areas of measure, pasture and meadows as a percentage of the total arable land, as they are currently very low. You've also heard the comparative characteristics, I won't repeat them. In addition, this will contribute largely to preserving the country's environmental picture, will meet the requirements of the Natura 2000 network, where meadows, pastures and measures are strongly involved, will largely respond to the visual problems that hunters have recently posed for the disturbed habitats of the game and, speaking of the interests of the farmers, add to this number and the interest of the beekeepers. You know how important raising bees is. We also welcome in the new Law the changes that aim at the more difficult redeployment of agricultural land and their transformation into regulated land properties. This is how things are synchronized with the Law on Forests and Agricultural Land. We will not see that we have grown up in the fields of nothingness, as the redeployment so far has been easy, and this will only be done under an adopted General Development Plan, which we know is going through a broad public discussion. We welcome the changes. We hope to refine the texts between first and second readings and wish success to the new Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u35	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u36	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is obvious that there is a principled consensus to support this bill between the various parliamentary groups and indeed the aim of giving pastures and measures for the use of livestock farmers cannot be objected. Only from the pre-speakers, they seemed to sneak up behind this noble and right goal, in my opinion, two other goals. First, to resend the flow of financial resources that is used for support. Secondly, some reboot of the restitutional claims, as far as I understood in this sense the statement of colleague Slavov. I will not dwell on these trends whether they are so or not, I would rather draw attention to some imperfections of the proposed regulation from a purely legal and technical point of view. With some of the provisions of the proposed Bill, we are once again introducing a controversial legal technology for some kind of subsequent invalidity and that of the basic and not of legal. In my opinion, there should be a clearer order to terminate contracts between those persons who are now tenants and in an established inspection if they do not have the animals concerned. Since if we forward the way of termination in the Landing Act, hence in the general civil law, we will see that there is indeed a danger of creating a huge legal chaos, that there will be countless procedures that will not help to achieve the otherwise noble objective.. to give pastures to farmers, but will only make it difficult for municipalities and will create a number of circumstances preventing pastures from being used as intended, to feed animals and so on. For example, I ask myself the question: well, we terminate the lease contracts,... [[Mister Desislava Taneva spoke with MP Yanaki Stoilov.]] Please listen to me, Madam Secretary! ...if the respective tenant is not a livestock farmer? What would happen in the hypothesis if there was a disease and you destroyed his herd? Are you going to cancel his contract again? On the current text, you must stop it, as there will be a factual basis and it will objectively and will have to act on the new regulation that you are proposing. I therefore draw attention to these, in my opinion, legal and technical weaknesses of the proposed texts, and I ask you once again to regulate more clearly how these contracts are terminated. Otherwise, there will really be a huge legal chaos, countless deeds that will not benefit anyone. Secondly, I would like to say that this provision, which gives us the right to restart some restitutional claims, we and our colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria will review it and probably at second reading we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u37	Any lines to Mr. Georgiev? I won't. Any other MPs? There are questions for you, Madam Secretary. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u38	Dear Mr. MP, I would like to assure you that your doubts about causing legal chaos are absolutely unfounded. How the mayor, as a debtor in the hypothesis that there is a user of a municipal land fund, will terminate the contract depends on the terms of the contract. And not to terminate the contract, philosophy and the meaning of legal change is that this consumer, who does not raise animals, will simply not be able to claim it as a subsidy. The proposed changes end the practice for European funds to benefit from users who have the activity of cleaning pastures from shrubs is a kind of occupation. That's the point. And the mode of termination of the contract with the predecessor, whether he municipality or state, depends ultimately on the terms of the contract itself. Secondly, as regards the restart of the restitutional claims procedure. There is no such restart, there is the introduction of preliminary administrative control by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, an increase in some administrative deadlines. I think that you have met, during the course of your debate, this Bill has become interesting, but, of course, for a second reading the proposals whether they are from BSP, whether they are from DPS, whether they are from GERB or other political power, will be considered in the context and philosophy of the Law, especially with the old colleagues from the parliamentary groups with whom we have worked longer, know this very well. It is indeed very good that there is such a principled consensus on a direction in which agriculture will develop. Since the main part of supporting this agriculture is European funds due to the lack of our budget, it is therefore extremely important what instruments and measures to support and manage these resources are being made so that the direction of development of agriculture is the one where we all agree in principle. It is the restoration of a balanced structure. Professor Stankov, acting as Minister of the Service, was the first to make such a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u39	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, is there anyone else who would like to speak? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, No 502-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 142 MPs: for 141, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u40	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u41	Procedure. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Request for a procedure denied a request for a procedure. Madam Minister, please consider yourself invited to the next point of the Forest Act. Colleagues, we're going back to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE WATERS. Go from yesterday's plenary session. Mr. Kostov has been admitted into the courtroom. Colleagues, I recall that in yesterday's plenary session, we voted § 48 including on the Commission's report. § 45 will be reported by importer, which will become § 49 of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 45, 46 and 47, which shall become paragraphs 49, 50 and 51 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u43	Statements? I won't. Anblok, I'm putting the three reported paragraphs to the vote. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u44	According to § 48 an importer there is a proposal made by the National Representative Georgi Andonov, which the Commission supports. There is also a proposal made by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov, which the Commission does not support under points 2, 3 and 5, and generally supports the proposal referred to in points 1 and 4. There is a proposal made by the MP Irena Kotseva. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal from the National Representative Manol Genov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 3 and supports, in principle, the proposal under point 3. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Zhivko Martinov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u45	Some of my fellow importers, with regard to the unsupported texts, will they be withdrawn so that we do not read them? [[Reply from rapporteur Stanislav Ivanov.]] Okay, so report the unsupported and report to the Commission what it offers us, because you have not proposed the Commission's amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u46	On the first proposals, which are of the gentlemen Borislav Velikov and Willi Lilkov, unsupported, according to points 2, 3 and 5: "2." in the new para. 5 of art. 194, p. 1 (c) add a new subscript (c) with the following text: For the quality of the purified waste leads to or below the specified values in the discharge permit. "3." in the new para. 5 of art. 194, p. 1 (d) we propose that a hint (d) be expressed; (d) Point 5 of these proposals, which is not supported: It's five o'clock. We offer editing of the new para. 9 of art. 194 as follows: Art. 194 (9) For the reimbursement of environmental costs and resource costs, a correction coefficient for the increase of the pollution charge shall be fixed: 1. in water bodies, chemical or environmental condition of which is lower than good; 2. in water protection areas; 3. upon discharge in the drying, karst and ponting rivers, as well as in the small and medium rivers defined in the ordinance under art. 135, para. 1, t. 9. The next proposal under point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be made on the basis of the following proposal: 1 to Mrs. Irena Kotseva, which is not supported. "1." Art. 194, para. 5, t. 1 of the Bill is amended as follows: "1." calculated annually on the basis of the values obtained from the own monitoring of the quantity of waste water discharges and the concentration of characteristic pollutants in the waste water for which individual emission limits are set in the permit for water operators, the quantity of water supplied by the operator to the users using the service Mr. Genov's proposal on points 1 and 3, which is not supported: "1." ) (a.k.a. 5, t. 1 to be "3." ) (a.k.a. 9, p. 2 The coefficient of charge for screwing the pollution charge to refer to newly designed WSOV and to redesigned sewerage systems. Mr. Martinov's proposal is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 52, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 194 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2: (aa) in the letter (s), the words (s) shall be replaced by the river Danube and the reservoirs (s); (bb) the following point (d) is inserted: (d) violation of the continuity of the river by the facilities under art. 156th, para. 2, p. 4. (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." pollution charge: (a) for discharge of waste water in surface water; (b) for the removal of pollutants into groundwater; (c) from diffuse sources from agriculture; this fee shall not be paid if a fee is paid under the letter 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The fee referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: 1, t. 1 (s) and 1 (s) shall be determined on the basis of the volume of water taken and the relevant water consumption rules laid down in the regulation under art. 117a. 3. Alinei 4 and 5 are amended as follows: The fee under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined on the basis of: 1. the authorised volume of the claim in the cases referred to in point (a) (ii) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; 2. the height of the partition facility in the cases referred to in point (d). (5) The taxis under para. 1, t. 3 are defined: 1. under the (a) sewerage systems in settlements, settlements and resorts on the basis of the annual water quantity consumed by the water supply operator for consumers using the waste water management service. m., with correction factors taking into account the type of boiler, the number of discharges and the degree of purification; (b) industrial plants forming biodegradable industrial waste water and from other waste water-forming sites of a domestic nature only on the basis of the annual amount of waste water discharges in the surface water site, with the correction factors referred to in (a) and (b); (c) industrial enterprises other than those referred to in point (b) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (aa) the fee determined on the basis of the annual load of chemical oxygen for industrial waste water discharged in the surface water site with correction factors depending on the number of priority hazardous, priority and specific substances; and (bb) the fee for municipal waste water determined on the basis of the annual amount of waste domestic waste water discharged in the surface water site; (d) production waste water which is not domestic and is disposed of in sewerage systems in settlements, settlements and resorts, on the basis of the quantity, substances and indicators of waste water, according to a written contract with the C and K operator, with the correction coefficients referred to in (a) and (b); 2. according to point (b) "based on the annual quantity of water taken away and the concentration of characteristic pollutants for which maximum limits are set in the permit; 3. under the letter "in" - by a decree of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food, agreed with the Minister of Environment and Water, which determines the amount, order and method of calculating and paying the fees. 4. A new para is being created. 7, 8 and 9 and para. 10: The fee under para. 5. 1. point 1: (a) point (a) shall be included in the recognised annual costs forming the necessary annual revenues of the water operators; (b) point (d) shall not be included in the recognised annual costs forming the necessary annual revenues of the water operators but shall be paid individually by the users through the water service provider. 2. point 3 shall be paid individually by the owner or user of the holding or the person placing plant protection products on the market. (8) If the holder of the permit builds and operates a system for continuous automated monitoring and when the indications of the system are validated by the controlling body, the fee under para. 1, t. Point 3 is defined on the basis of the actual loads of polluting substances. (9) For the reimbursement of environmental costs and resource costs, a correction coefficient for the increase of the fee shall be fixed: 1. for water consumption at self-contained water supply (through own water-based facilities); 2. for pollution: (a) in water bodies, chemical or environmental condition of which is lower than good; (b) in water protection areas; (c) upon discharge in the drying, karst and ponting rivers, as well as in the small and medium rivers defined in the ordinance of art. 135, para. 1, t. 9. (10) The fee under para. 1, t. 2 (d) is due to the introduction into operation of a facility providing the continuity of the river. 5. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 11 and in it: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: the tax under para. 1 shall not be paid in cases: b) To be created t. 6, 7 and 8: It's six. pollution from diffuse sources from agriculture in: (a) livestock farming to meet the household's own needs, in the number of different animal species, according to the ordinance under art. 137, para. 10 of the Animal Health Act; (b) organic farming of animals, bees and aquaculture; 7. for water capture in order to create new, restore and/or maintain habitats and/or habitats of species, including wetlands, in territories - part of the National Ecological Network within the meaning of art. 3 of the Biodiversity Act, in which the maintenance and/or improvement of the water regime is an important factor for their preservation; in these cases the use of dried water for activity aimed at the pursuit of a profession or craft and the realization of profit is not permitted; 8. for the seizure of deposits in the cases referred to in Article 8. 140..................................................................... 6. Previously on AMC's... Paragraphs 8 and 9 become paras 8 and 9 respectively. 12 and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u47	I also ask you to report Mrs. Elena Kotseva's proposal in her unsupported section. 1. You announced that there was unsupported, but then when you came back to read the unsupported...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u48	I read that!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u49	You read that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u50	Yeah, yeah, I read that first one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u51	Okay, thank you. The debate is open. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u52	Eyes to the right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u53	There's a battery going down, a laptop goes down, so the noise gets my attention to the left. I hope there's no damage to the laptop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! There's no one from... Ah, the Ministry Mr. Gudgerov is here. I see there are people from the Ministry of Regional Development as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u55	There are people from the Regional Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u56	As regards my proposal for § 48, art. 194, I'm pulling out. 1, para. 5, t. 1 with the text where I suggest you drop it. I'm also retiring and retiring. 3, para. Nine...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u57	What you are withdrawing now at second reading, since there is a text editing by the Commission... Speak on the Commission's proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u58	Yes, and I'll speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u59	There if you have editorial changes, otherwise the other is pointless at this phase of the debate to withdraw it. You could have done it sooner, not wasted time reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u60	I would like to call on my colleagues to support us in § 8, Article 8. 194, p. 1 in the new para. 5 words The total amount of waste water used shall be replaced by the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, bear in mind that if the text was adopted as proposed in the Law, we should all here, voting on this text, reach into our pocket, as this fee would also be paid for the rainwater that is being carried through the sewer network. The proposal of Willy Lilkov and Mr. Veliv is the same, Mrs. Kotseva is the same with another editing. So I propose on this article that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u61	Please repeat just one more time: § 52 for changes in art. 194. Then what?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u62	Article 48, art. 194 the following amendments...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u63	We are at § 52 on the Commission report! You're working on some old importer report. Paragraph 52 for art. 194 you're changing, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u64	Paragraph 52, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u65	Okay. Where should we touch the point, paragraph, hint?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u66	The total number of empty...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u67	Where is that, tell me what point it is? It's two pages of text!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u68	In the new... It is generally supported, but there are two texts of the proposal. One belongs to Mr. Lilkov, the other belongs to Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u69	Mr. Genov, debate for second reading... [[Heckling]] Please, colleagues, don't call from the spot! We are discussing the revision of the Commission! What had happened before if she had seen the Commission! The plenary room is discussing the Commission's version. If you have proposals other than what the Commission is proposing, now is the time to state the exact wording so that I can put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u70	The Commission proposes it, but I don't see it in the report? For the invoiced water, § 52, para. 5, t. 1. He's got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u71	52, para. 5, t. 1... Under the letter "pollution" of... Alinea 5 is: the taxicabs by para. 1, t. 3 shall be determined by. There's a t. 1............................................................................................................ Letterings......................................................................................................... Where exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u72	I don't know, we have some false reports, Madam President... [[Laughter and excitement.]] And this report cannot be given to me in the Commission, this report can now be read by the President of the Commission!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u73	The committee shall be given the draft report on which all proposals are taken into account!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u74	Yeah, and in that report, it was the proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u75	Then a joint report comes out of the committee, which goes up on the Commission's website...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u76	Please, Mr. President, make it clear!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u77	Get ready, Mr. Genov! Prepare in advance for your speeches! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u78	Don't worry, guys. We'll work it out. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u79	We're all very calm, but such a miracle was not in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u80	Yes, and I suggest we support him properly, Mr. Chairman. [[Laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u81	What? Now it turns out that the text has it and you want us to support it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u82	He's got it, he's got it, yeah, and we're gonna back him up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u83	You are in favour of the text of the Commission which you have not been given and you have been working on the false report?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u84	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u85	So how is it a fake text, Madam President?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u86	There he is! Can I give it to you, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u87	Got it. This is the preliminary report, Mr. Genov, for the Commission's work, after which the final report...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u88	It's not the preliminary one, it's the extra one! That's the extra one!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u89	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u90	Oh, here we go! So mine's a fake! He confessed to it himself. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u91	Replices, coworkers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u92	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u93	There's a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. Make a criticism of me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u94	Mrs. Chairman! No, I'm not gonna criticize you. I would suggest that we put an end to this content debate on the text voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u95	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on the procedural proposal... [[Heckling]] If there are no speeches recorded, there is nothing to stop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u96	I wanted to speak before Mr. Genov. You thought his laptop was very important...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u97	Not his, Mr. Rumen Gechev's laptop! There's a procedural proposal, you should have made a deal with Mr. Lazarov, but still...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u98	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u99	The motion to end the debate has been withdrawn. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I also thank my colleague Lazarov because, indeed, colleagues, it is true that the topic is a little more specialized, but it is important. I will only speak on our proposal No 5, which relates to § 48 by importer and § 52 new. Our proposal specifically relates to the editing of the new para. 9 of art. 194. Our editing means what, colleagues, means dropping out of t. 1 of para. 9 by importer, which also increases the water collection fee for self water supply, i.e. when we have our own water supply facilities. The motives of our proposal with Prof. Lilkov is related to the implementation of a financial aggravation, to increase the fee for water use through its own water-based facilities, especially for industries that are related to food production or medicines, and even cosmetic products - something that is related to the country's gross domestic product, with export opportunities, is not a good tone in days, weeks, months and years when we want to restore the economy, even if we have economic growth. In this sense, we feel that it is not right even now, when the fee for self-driving water supply... She's still tall enough. Imagine that an entrepreneur has built his own drilling from a water-borne horizon with appropriate hydrochemical and microbiological qualities of water, put in means of further purification or conditioning, as it is said, i.e. carrying out in some special limits of some indicators and then having hardly a punishment for being prepared so that he can produce with this water food and medicines, to raise his water intake fee with his own water-borne facilities. This creates concern in business. They've made significant investments and now let's punish them. Therefore, Madam President, I am not only suggesting that this be supported, and I am proposing to my fellow Members, of course, and I will ask you, in a purely procedural manner, this proposal of ours. 5 of our proposal, which is not supported by the Commission for not quite clear reasons, to be voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote on the Additional Report the proposal of Mr. Borislav Velikov and Willy Lilkov in the part where it is not supported, and that is under points 2, 3 and 5. You wanted a separate vote on item. Five?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u102	Let's see which of the MPs really support the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u103	There is a proposal for a split vote on the rejected proposals referred to in points 2, 3 and 5. I have to put it to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to vote separately the three points not supported by Mr. Velikov as an importer, not that he did not support them. They voted 109 MPs: 34 against 21, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the proposals of Mr. Velikov and Mr. Lilkov, which the Commission does not support in this part, the unsupported one. They voted 105 MPs: 33, Against 14, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs in the part where the Commission does not support it. That's by t. 1 of the proposal. We are voting on the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 22, against 3, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Manol Genov in the part where the Commission does not support him. That's on points 1 and 3 of his proposal. We are voting on the unsupported part of the proposal. They voted 108 MPs: 23, against 21, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 52 for changes to art. 194 on the Commission's Additional Report. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 52. 110 MPs voted: 105, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u104	I'm going back to the main report, colleagues. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs: a new § 48a is being created. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198c the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 7 the words "three quarters' are replaced by "two thirds'. 2. In para. 9 the words "all voices" shall be replaced by the voices of those present under para. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u105	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 53 on the Main Report on Mrs Kotseva's proposal. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u106	Vote 98 MPs: 93, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 53 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u107	A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198l The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words the water tariff for the group of users shall be replaced by the price of the water service. 2. A new Paragraph 2 shall be created: The principle of para 2 shall be the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the two. 1 is mandatory for the prices of water supply services to consumers and/or other water operators. The price for the water supply service can be determined differentiated for groups of users depending on the degree of contamination under the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act and its implementing acts. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u108	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 54. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 54 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u110	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 49, which in the Commission report becomes § 55. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 49 supported by the Commission, which becomes § 55 in its report, has been adopted. It's a re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u111	A lot of my colleagues couldn't vote. It was a very short time to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u112	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Revoting procedure. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The text of the importer supported by the Commission in its report as § 55 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u113	According to § 50, there is a proposal made by the MP Georgi Andonov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 56, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 23 is amended as follows: "23." It takes deposits from water sites with mechanization and without permission from 20 000 to 50 000 BGN.;................................................................. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 24 the words "spare" are replaced by "spare," para. 24 the words "spare" are replaced by "spare," 3. A new t. is created. 38: "38." You failed to fulfil an obligation under art. 141, para. From 1000 to 10 000 leva.;.................................................... 4. They're creating a t. 39-41: "39." do not comply with a prescription under art. 138a, para. 3, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 190a, para. 1, t. 3 - from 1000 to 20 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 40. You failed to comply with an order under Article 40. 199b, para. 1 and 3• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 41. does not fulfil his obligation under Article 41. 138c, para. 1 from 10 000 to 50 000 BGN 5. Previously on "T." 38 becomes t. 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u114	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 50, which shall take place in its report § 56. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The text for § 56 has been adopted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Due to the short time in which the vote was given, many of the Members were unable to vote. Personally, I did not vote because it was a short time. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u116	Revoting procedure. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The text for § 56 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u117	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 57, and shall propose the following wording: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 201 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. 200, para. In the event of a failure to comply with this Regulation, the competent authority shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of the reasons for the refusal of entry into force of this Regulation and shall inform the other Member States and 2. In para. 2 after the word "Signatures" shall be added by para. 1.................................................................................. 3. A new para is being created. 11th para. 12: "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" and "Species" 200, para. 1, t. 38-41 shall be made up of officials authorised by the authority referred to in Article 38-41. 190, para. 4. (12) The Penal Orders under para. 11 shall be issued by the President of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision or by officials authorised by him. 4. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u118	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text edited by the Commission for § 51 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 57. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The text for § 57 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u119	We're going through the additional report. On the Additional Report there is a proposal from the MPs Velikov and Lilkov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 98 and supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 97. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made under art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Zhivko Martinov, also made in accordance with art. 80 of our Rules. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made again in accordance with the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The unsupported proposal made by the gentlemen Velikov and Lilkov remains only on point. 98: It's 98. It is an underground water body of one chemical composition and quality that meets the requirements for bottled water as a source of water, which is operated by one or more natural springs and/or drillings. You basically withdrew them, should we vote on it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u120	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u121	Okay. That is the only thing that is not supported, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u122	Read the Commission's version.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u123	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 58, and shall propose the following version: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: "1." In § 1, para. 1: (a) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. A water-borne horizon is one or more layers of rock or other geological layers located below the surface that have sufficient porousness and water transmittance, allowing significant flow or draw of significant quantities of groundwater; (b) c. 16 points (b) and (c) shall be added after the word "annual averages'. (c) c. 17 the words "subterranean waters' shall be deleted and the word "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied waters'; (d) point 56 is amended as follows: ..56. The annual average of the total feeding of the underground water body is the long-term annual average of the underground water body; (e) point 77 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A significant increase in the concentration of pollutants, a group of pollutants or a modification of an indicator of groundwater pollution, which is considered necessary to reverse the trend in accordance with art. 156a, para. 1, t. point 2 (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (f) c. 92 words. The following shall be added to the list of persons, entities and bodies referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of (g) create a t. 93-99: It's 93. The spouses, persons living in a married relationship, as well as their children and relatives, if they live with them; 94. The dam is a water-growing system, including the water site, the dam, the facilities and the collections; 95. a hydro-specialist or legal person who has a hydro-specialist employee for carrying out the management, maintenance and operation activities of dams and facilities assigned to them by the owner; 96. A water situation stress is any human activity that may adversely affect the water condition; 97. The water protection zone is the surface water body or ground surface area above the underground water body; 98. It is an underground water body containing mineral waters, one-type chemical composition and properties; 99. Diffuse from a diffuse source is a pollution resulting from human activity which is not discharge of waste water into surface water and/or discharge of pollutants into groundwater concentrated at a certain point. 2. Paragraph 2c is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the assessment and management of flood risk (OB, L 288/27 of 6 November 2007) and art. 11 and 12 of Directive 2008/105/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 laying down environmental quality standards for water policy, amending and subsequently repealing Directives 82/176/EEC, 83/513/EEC, 84/156/EEC, 84/491/EEC, 86/280/EEC and amending Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 348/84 of 24 December 2008).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u124	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is true that this matter is too specialized, but the waters are important, which is why every definition that we put into the additional provisions should be quite clean. What Professor and I suggested. Lilkov, including as lecturers at the University of Mine and Geology, for both the definition of mineral water and spring water fields, we believe that they are supported from every scientific point of view, expert point of view and we regret that they were not adopted by the Commission mainly under the influence of the Ministry and the experts there. The experts of the Ministry prevailed over the experts MPs in the Committee on Environment and Water. I have to say that these two definitions of mineral water and spring water should be perceived, because in practice it is the same resource that is normally formed in the underground hydrosphere, and therefore it should not be made any significant difference that one should be accepted and the other should be rejected, as far as, of course, in mineral water we have perhaps some particular certification depending on the qualities of Either way, I'm going to ask you to vote on this unholy proposal of ours. I would like to propose an editorial amendment here, honourable Mr. Chairman, colleagues, namely: It's 98. It is part of an underground water body containing mineral waters, which are unique in chemical composition and properties. To add a part of an underground water body, as it is obvious that in an underground water body, to imagine North-Eastern Bulgaria, which is rich in underground waters in different water horizons, starting from the Sarmatiska, Malm-valengska and so on, but only in the Malm-valenge water horizon we know that depending on the extent of subsidence, the formation of groundwater we have different types of water and some of them, of course, have mineral properties, mineral qualities or can be defined as mineral. Or, if we set some other example for colleagues who are not water specialists, let's assume that we have a marble career. It is obvious that marble is some kind of metamorphized limestone and the whole mountain can be a body where we have limestone, but in just one particular part of this mountain we have a career, because there are suitable qualities of the formed metamorphized limestone in the form of marble for extraction, for concessions and so on. So both from the mountain we can define the quarry and from the underground water body we can form part of the mineral water field, so I think I justify the purely expert need to add that the mineral water field is part of the underground water body, and so on, as is the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u127	Dear host gentleman, dear colleagues! I suggest voting as is the text proposed and supported by the Commission, because if we go into the hypothesis of which part is part and we enter the circle, for example, of the water cycle, any water can be seen as part of another water, so that from a purely scientific point of view and philosophically justified different horizons of matching opinions can be sought, but I suggest voting as is the text from the Commission, without determining which part and so on. Because we're even going to get into a coliseum with texts that we adopted yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Any other lines? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u129	First of all, I agree with what you said, Mr. Ebatine. Appendix, as a replica by Mr. Velikov: Mr. Velikov, if you had directed the efforts and your expertise, which you undoubtedly have, could have acquired another version and entered into the report another proposal. But, sorry, Mr. Veliv, the only thing unsupported here is the following: Mr. Veliv, what bottling in our Law? MOEW and we, our Commission, are not the authority and let's say this water is good for bottling, if this water is good for drinking and what it's good for. Our competences are quite different, so it was not accepted because it was not cleared as a definition the concept to be laid down in the Law amending and supplementing the Law. You've explained very precisely. Your knowledge is really great. I cannot argue with you about this, but we must not claim that the text is incorrectly supported because it is incorrect. I'm saying, if there wasn't this bottling here, in this text, and he had some other editing, then we could have thought about it. And if you had any reproach at the time, I understand. But I ask again: is it within our Ministry's competence to issue a bottling permit? I don't think you have such rights, Deputy Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u130	Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Assoc. Gorgeous, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I want to make it clear that I have no personal interest in bottling or any other business if any of this would get excited. But I think that purely expert, the field of spring water, is about natural spring water, and in this sense there could be a definition of this concept in our Law. Moreover, that in some cases permits are granted by the Ministry of Environment and Water or its departments, where it is written that the purpose is bottling, this is already a separate issue which could be regulated subsequently. Mr President, you have not paid attention to the part that I think is more important, as I assume that this House will not accept the definition of a source of spring water and, ultimately, one cannot be mad at this, but I think that, as an expert, we should not respect here the considerations of the colleague who spoke, Ercan Ebatin. With all due respect, I've been dealing with underground waters for over 35 years, and I say that, including my colleague, Professor. Pavel Penchev, and with other colleagues, just the definition we have in the report of the Commission on mineral water, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. President of the Commission Ivanov, etc. 98, there I only ask for understanding that if you add that the mineral water field is part of an underground water body, it will be more accurate. I'm talking about t. 98. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u132	That's what you'll specify on the break. Do you have any more to finish your coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u133	So we're talking about t. 98 times one of the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u134	No, no! On the supplementary report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u135	I'm looking at the work report. I don't know about the Extra.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u136	The mineral water field is an underground water body...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u137	It's part of an underground water body. Colleagues, Malm-Wallange watery horizon in Northeastern Bulgaria occupies a huge area. It's an underground ocean. Only some part of it can be mineral water and it is so in practice, so I ask purely expert to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u138	Thank you, dear Assoc. Gorgeous. After the break, we will continue with other speeches and votes. Holiday till 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u139	The hearing is ongoing. We continue with the second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act. Paragraph 58 was reported before the break in its version of the Additional Report. There have been statements made with an editorial proposal by Mr. Velikov on the subject. 98. The debate continues. There's a word for it, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that the version, which my colleague Velikov proposed, should be supported and the text of this article should be supported. 98 of the Additional Report to acquire the following species: the locality of the mineral water is an underground water body or part of it containing mineral waters, of chemical composition and properties. We must not limit ourselves to a part of it. I think that it is better to add... or.. because it includes everything. There will be no restrictions. If there is only a part of it left, we are introducing a restriction that is not correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u141	And how should the locality of mineral water sound? It is an underground water body or part of it, and the text further remains? Mr. Veliv, is there an agreement? Okay. Any other MPs in this regard? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u142	I am in favour of this proposal, and I also call on my fellow Members from the DPS Parliamentary Group to support it. I believe it is scientifically correct. However, it is missing here, Mr. Veliv, how it is exploited. Where only the scientific definition enters into a scientific definition, the operation of the water body concerned shall in itself exclude the formula of operation. So the correction made is completely acceptable by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u143	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I will first put to the vote the new version of this. 98: The locality of the mineral water is an underground water body or part of it containing mineral waters, of chemical composition and properties. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the general version of § 58 of the Additional Report, together with the new version of this. 98. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I propose that we vote for purity on the proposal of Mr. Velikov and Mr. Lilkov in his unsupported part. 98 although some of it has already been taken as a solution, but not to stand on the report as an unsupported part. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Veliv and Mr. Lilkov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 85 MPs: 11 against 29, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u144	The Commission proposes to create a new § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act (prom., SG No. 47, 2009, as amended. No. 95 of 2009) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In § 31, para. 1 is finally added to the list of companies owned by other state-owned companies. 2. Paragraph 32 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u145	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 59 on the Commission report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u146	The Commission proposes to create a new § 60: ........................................................ In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act (prom., SG No. 103 from 2013) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In § 9, para. The third sentence is created: the public ownership systems and facilities are entered into the balance sheet of the regional administrations of the specific territory. 2. In § 12, t. 2 after the word 3. In § 14: (a) in para. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied' and the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'; (b) in para. 5 after the word "supplied', a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be deleted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In the other texts of the Law, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u147	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new paragraphs with numbers 60 and 61 with content on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u148	The Commission proposes to set up a section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u149	We vote. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u150	Paragraph 53 "A proposal from the MPs Velikov and Lilkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Genov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall be § 62, and offers the following editing: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The ordinance referred to in art. 141, para. 2 and the methodology under art. 156e, para. 9 shall be issued within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The orders referred to in art. 135, para. 1, t. 1a, 2, 7, 11 and 13 and the tariff on water collection fees, use of a water site and pollution under art. 194, para. 6 shall be brought into conformity with the requirements of this Law within one year of its entry into force. (3) Until the regulations under art. 135, para. 1, t. 7 and so on. 13 in accordance with this law shall apply the repealed regulations under art. 135, para. 1, t. 10 and so on. 12, as long as they don't contradict this law. (4) Until the tariff under art. 194, para. 6 in accordance with the requirements of this law, water collection fees, water use and pollution charges shall be calculated and paid in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u151	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u152	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, the fees for water use are one of the issues at issue in the regulation of these relations. At present, there are many dissatisfied users who pay, according to them, undeserved fees. I will give you, for example, a nuclear power plant that pays huge fees for water use because there are no certain technical possibilities to energize domestic and fecal waters in certain places and actually for the entire amount of waste water from the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy is paid certain fees. I think that, as an editorial amendment, we can change the period of one year to six months and thus enable the new regulations to be made more quickly so that a clearer regulation in relation to water use fees can be introduced. In fact, my proposal is for an editorial amendment to change a year to six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u153	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Georgiev proposed in para. 2 at the end of this sentence, the Law within six months of its entry into force, instead of what was written in the Commission's report. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Georgiev. We are voting on a proposal which differs from the text proposed by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 21, Against 17, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the edited text of the importer for § 53, which in the Commission's report is § 62. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 62 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u154	Paragraph 54 "A proposal from the MPs Velikov and Lilkov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Manol Genov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 54 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u155	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Genov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u156	Madam President, honourable Members, the proposal I have made is... [[Heckling]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u157	Colleagues, please don't yell at me! Don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u158	Madam President, they're entering a dialogue. They're challenging me. [[Radio, lines.]] Colleagues, I want to explain to you what this is about. In the Commission, I proposed that the period of two years should be reduced and that it should be one year. If you ask the representative of the Ministry of Regional Development, he will tell you that there is no water service operator who will organize his work in six months to establish the water supply areas. In addition, with the adoption of the text that this is an obligation only of the water operators, we ignore the owners. In the Water Act the same one that is before you, colleagues, public municipal property is any facility that serves the territory of a municipality. I support Mr. Velikov's proposal that municipalities should also have a commitment to the establishment of these sanitary and security zones. It's like going up there and closing in on Mr. Ivanov's private yard, that's the same thing we're going to vote on right now. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u159	We will now vote on a proposal from the Commission to reject this paragraph. That's what we're going to vote on now. Are you against it or not? [[Heckling]] Leave them out of the suggestions. Colleagues, we're in the second vote right now. It's basically a discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u160	Yes, Madam President, I will vote for Mr. Veliv's proposal when you put him to the vote. [[Relations, excitement, laughter.]] I would like to provide some clarification to my fellow Members on the substance of what is proposed by the Commission. Maybe not everyone knows here, but some water operators on the territory of southern Bulgaria have water sources in Turkey to see them set up a sanitary and security zone there; or some water and water services in Bulgaria from before 1936, before the Craiovo Agreement, there are water sources in the territory of Romania. Let's see how they fulfill this Law. We're just putting on a pointless six-month period. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] No, I get it. I'm not confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u161	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Velikov and Mr. Lilkov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 29, against 24, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Genov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 29, against 32, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I am voting on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject § 54 entirely. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Next offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u163	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u164	Thank you. There is a proposal made by the National Representative Georgi Andonov, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph § 63: .............................................................................. Authorisations to use a water site for the seizure of deposits, except for those for the Danube River and the reservoirs issued until the entry into force of this law, shall retain their validity and be terminated after the expiry of the period for which they were issued and shall not apply art. 78, ) (a.k.a. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u165	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new § 63. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u166	A proposal by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs 54a, 54b and 54c, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 64 and § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The procedures for changing the ownership of objects under the repealed § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Water Act, initiated until the entry into force of this Act (Event No. 47th since 2009, as amended. No. 95 of 2009) they're finished in the current order. § 65. (1) The write-off from the balance sheet of the commercial companies of the Water Operators, the land of public state and/or public municipal property under art. 15 and 19 shall be carried out within 6 months of the identification of sanitary zones around water-installed water-installed water supply facilities. (2) Within 6 months of the designation of sanitary zones, the water operators shall take all legal and factual actions for the discharge under para. 1, including, where necessary, take accounting and regulatory procedures for the separation of Belt I into sanitary zones under the order of the competent authority and send to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works a list containing the indication and individualisation of the lands representing Belt I of the sanitary zone located in the designated territory. (3) For the distribution of ownership of the Belt I lands of sanitary zones between the State and the municipalities, protocols shall be signed according to a model established by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The allocation protocols shall be complementary to the Protocols under § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act (GB, p. 103 from 2013). (4) The provisions of § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act (Art. 103 from 2013) apply respectively to the distribution and write-off of public property land.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u167	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 64 and 65. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u168	The Commission proposes that § 55 be rejected as it is systematically reflected in § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u169	We vote. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u170	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u171	We vote. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u172	The Commission proposes to reject § 57 as it is systematically reflected in § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u173	We vote. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u174	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u175	We vote § 67. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u176	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 59 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u177	We vote. They voted 109 MPs: 108, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Proposal by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 59. 2. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 60 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u178	We vote. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u179	The Commission proposes that § 61 be rejected as it is systematically reflected in § 59. 1. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 62 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u180	We are voting for the rejection of § 62. [[Heckling]] Only proposals from the Commission vote to the end. Paragraph 61 has been systematically reflected and we have already voted in § 59. 1. There's nothing to vote on. We are now voting for the rejection of § 62 by importer. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u181	A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 60. 3. The Commission proposes that § 63 be rejected as it is systematically reflected in § 61. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law for regulation of water supply and sewerage services (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence first, the words supposed by user groups depending on the amount of water consumed and the technology of water extraction and water delivery shall be deleted; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: Water operators shall apply the principle of a single price of the water service in the separate territory. The principle is mandatory for the prices of water supply services to consumers and/or other water operators. The price for the water supply service can be determined differentiated for groups of consumers depending on the degree of contamination under this law and its implementing acts. c) the current para. 2 and 3 become respectively. Three and four. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 3 words................................................................................. The 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing 4. In § 1, para. 1, t. 4 of the additional provision, the words "the fourth of the hundred' shall be replaced by "the eighth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the hundredth of the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u182	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u183	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose the following amendment to § 63a, where we are going to the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act, in art. 14b: supplied water supply operators apply the principle of a single price........................................................................................... I propose that waste water treatment should be added to the waste water treatment. Because purification is also a condition in principle, and I don't know why my colleagues forgot to add it here to this Law. In order to shorten the time, I also propose in the next § 68, again in the same Law, the price of the water service.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u184	The second one I couldn't mention because you're working on another numbering. The first proposal is by § 68 in para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u185	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u186	In § 68, I wrote, in para. 2 in the sentence The price of the water supply service to be added to the waste water treatment. Give me the next offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u187	The next offer is for § 63a. In the 63a Act...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u188	This is Irena Kotseva's proposal for §63a. Only what is ill in black, the Commission's texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u189	I propose in § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u190	We get that, that's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u191	So far, I have no other offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u192	Okay, thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Genov's proposal in § 68. 1, para. 2 The sentence: The price for the water service is added after the waste water management text. Then it will be:.... to waste water and treatment services.... can be determined.................................................................................................. can be determined................................................................................................................................................. We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the full version of § 68 of the Commission report, with the editorial supplement we have just adopted. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u193	Proposal by the National Representative Zhivko Martinov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of our Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u194	Tell them we're on our way to the Additional Report. We're working on some reports, Mr. Ivanov. We're on the Extra Report now. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u195	The Commission proposes to create a new § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... The pollution fee from diffuse sources...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u196	Why § 70, when we just voted § 68?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u197	Paragraph 69, excuse me. Proposal from the National Representative Zhivko Martinov. The Commission supports the proposal. It's from the Extra Report. The Commission proposes to create a new § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The fee for pollution of diffuse sources from agriculture is due from 1 January 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u198	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new § 69, on the Commission's Additional Report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u199	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 70, and shall propose the following wording: ...... 70......................................................................... Paragraph 26, § 27, t. Article 2 concerning Art. 2 138a, para. 4 t. 1, § 31, t. Article 1 concerning Art. 1 140, para. 2, p. 1, § 32, t. Article 1 concerning Art. 1 141, para. 1, t. 2 and 3, § 48, t. 2, § 49, § 55, § 56 and § 57, p. Article 3 concerning Art. 201, para. 11 and 12 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u200	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 69 on the Main Report, which becomes § 70. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u201	Paragraphs 65, 66, 67, 68 and 69 by importer, the Commission proposes to reject them as they are systematically reflected in § 70, which we have just accepted by a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u202	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote on the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 65, 66, 67, 68 and 69 by importer, as their content has been summarised in art. 70. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. With this, we adopted at second reading and the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you all for being in the Chamber, the colleagues who made the proposals. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law which, at several national meetings, could not be found time to be passed, a very important law in view of the events of last year and the previous year, the floods and the accompanying natural disasters. Thank you all again!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u204	Colleagues, there is a § 63 which the Commission proposes to reject, as it is systematically reflected in § 61. Let us vote on this proposal so that there is clarity and that we do not create drama in the final texts. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 63 by importer. His editing is somewhere else. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, before we move on to the second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 21 July 2015. Tuesday, 11 to 17.00 on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. A continuation from a previous plenary sitting at second reading. 2. Draft Decision for the opening of a subsidiary in Shumen in the structure of Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. 4. Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 29 April 2015 authorising the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the implementation: The effectiveness and effectiveness of the Banking Supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. 5. Draft Decision adopting Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom). Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education. Importers: Borislav Velikov, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens and the Customs Act are also in our current weekly programme, but seeing what time it is and how much time we have left for our legislative programme, given the volume of the Second Voting Report under the Forest Act, I propose that these two points be included in our programme for Tuesday. Please vote. Vote 110 MPs: 100 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u205	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land from seven to be three days old.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u206	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u207	Madam President, honourable Members! We have seen that there is a principled consensus on this bill between the various political parties. Many of them made substantial proposals, made opinions on necessary changes to the text between first and second readings. There is no need for such an important Law to be rushed, so I am making a reverse procedural proposal not to shorten the term of our Rules, but to be the normal term of seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u208	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 102 MPs: 85 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. One more procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u210	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR BURNS. Are we ready to start with the Bill? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin to examine the Second Voting Bill, I shall make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for admission in plenary of Assoc. Georgi Kostov Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food, eng. Tony Krastev sc. Managing Director of the Forest Agency, and Daniela Angelova is a legal consultant in the Executive Forest Agency. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u212	Please vote on the procedural proposal of the National Representative Rumen Hristov for admission into the hall of the persons designated by him. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. You can invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 12, t. 4 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, because of a possible conflict of interest, I declare that I will not participate in the vote on this Law. In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, No 502-01-40, which was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 May 2015, which was adopted on the first vote on 10 June 2015. The Law on Forests is amended and supplemented by the Law on Forests. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u214	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u215	According to § 1, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u216	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 1, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 1 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u217	§ 2 is proposed by the MP Rumen Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words the Regional Development Plans for the Forest Areas, the Economics and Economics shall be replaced by the Forest Development Plans for the Forest Areas; (b) c. 1 after the words. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance 2. The creation of para. 3: The Regional Development Plans for the Forest Areas shall be prepared by traders registered in the Commercial Register.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u218	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which has been edited by the Commission on its report. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 2 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u219	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u220	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which is supported in the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u221	There is a proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova to create a new paragraph: Paragraph 3a shall be created: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 5 t. 3 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 3a. The motion is accepted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 5 t. 1 "1." the property owned by natural or legal persons is subject to a mortgage or other property rights;
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u222	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 30, against 35, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. And we are now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 together with the content of this paragraph, as reported by MP Rumen Hristov. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 4, together with the corresponding text on the report, has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u223	Proposal by the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 43a: Art. 43a. (1) When renting out properties in forestry areas, state and municipal property, which according to the forestry plan are pasture, meadow or meadow, the term of the lease shall be not less than 5 years. Applicants who fulfil both of the following conditions shall be eligible to tender: 1. are owners or users of livestock establishments with pasture farm animals within the meaning of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land; 2. the sites are registered in the integrated information system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH); 3. the sites are registered in the territory of the municipality in which the properties subject to the tender fall. (2) The BABH Regional Directorate shall provide a professional extract from the integrated system of establishments for the territory of the municipality concerned. (3) The remaining vacant areas shall be leased according to the order of art. 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u224	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5, together with its content, as recorded in the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 5, together with the content of the report, is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u225	The proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u226	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we have made is the removal of § 4 from art. 54, para. 1, t. 3. It is about the establishment of a right of construction on land properties in forest territory without changing the purpose and proposal, which is made with this change in the Law on Forests, is also to include fire towers in this text. There are many exceptions in this Article 54, where no change of purpose is required, and that is, by starting the sheds, cantons, informational, visitor centers and so on. We're bypassing the Code of Conduct on the territory. How have fire towers been created so far in the previous programming period, now suddenly we are asking who we are helping? If it's two or three people who are going to make towers, tell us to help them pass the normal procedure accordingly, but the information we've received is that one of these facilities usually takes about 6-7 acres. This is a huge territory where you have no change of purpose, but we are talking about construction. And that is why our proposal is this text, this exception not to be included in the Law. This Law is above all the laws above the Law on Construction of the Area under all exceptions, above the Law on Public Procurement, because the auctions are not under the Law on Public Procurement, but at the same time when we talk about sanctions, as you will later see, they refer us to the PPC, because they cannot be dealt with together with all these violations that are taking place in the forests. Either we stop with the exception, or just any change in the law, we'll add the list. It can become endless and in the woods it can be built out of control and without any order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u228	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u229	Mr President, we have discussed this in detail in the Commission. Indeed, the Forest Law describes in detail which, what is not considered to be construction and does not need to change the purpose of the territory. We believe that it is quite appropriate not to need to change the use of forest territory when building facilities such as towers of fire importance. Prevention of fire fighting is one of the most important events to be carried out in forests, so it is necessary first of all early disclosure, but what is more important than the towers where we already have, not only, as was the old practice, with firefighters, but also with modern video technology. And second of all, roads that allow fire trucks access to the fire. The fact that a fire tower requires 5-6 acres is false and highly exaggerated. It is not necessary for a fire tower to take this territory from the forest territory, to change its purpose and to forever become regulated land property. In my opinion, this is the big misunderstanding, so I cannot in any way support the request, as we have done in the Commission, to Professor. Bachvarova. I appeal to remain the text as the Commission has proposed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 78 MPs: 17 against 35, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 4, which is supported by the Commission, and in its report it becomes § 6. Please vote. Cancel the vote! Name check! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u231	Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Additional entry: Ayhan Etem, Alexander Nenkov, Atanas Stoyanov, Georgi Andonov, Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Shishkov, Vladislav Nikolov, Erjan Ebatin, Desislava Atanasova, Kiril Kalfin, Vyara Cerovska, Dimitar Zhelev, Boyka Marinska, Dora Yankova. There's a quorum. We're moving on. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u232	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, and please note Mr. Glauchev, who has allowed himself to cancel a vote for which there was a number of 74 Members of the National Assembly, in the case of a quorum lower than 74, and made a name check. He did it because obviously the Commission's proposal did not pass. This is not the procedure and way to pass the bills supported by the Commission. Please pay attention to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u233	I would like to note to Mr. Glauchev that in the specific hypothesis a re-vote should be requested and in view of the upcoming re-vote to do a name check. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 6. Vote 96 MPs: 77, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal of the MP Borislav Milanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u235	Mr. Willy Lilkov said he's withdrawing the offer, he's in the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u236	Proposal of the MP Borislav Milanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u237	The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u238	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev 79 para. 3 shall be supplemented by the following sentence:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u239	The proposal is supported in principle, do not read it. It is reflected in its systematic place in § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u240	The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 9. The proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u241	Statements? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u242	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I will make a speech under paragraphs 5, 6 and 25 as they concern the same subject. The proposal to create in the Law the legal possibility that land restored as agricultural land and in the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land will be transformed into a forest fund under certain circumstances and under a specific procedure. We have to say that this procedure has already been adopted once in the Law with the requirement that within six months a consideration be made of the territories that enter the hypothesis of a forest fund and at the same time be converted. I guess she didn't work. The same procedure is now being proposed, respectively, with two options: the first one we accept is that if you have restored ownership of agricultural land as arable land, it follows that it can be transformed into a forest fund at your own will. We can understand that because it's the right of the owner. The second hypothesis proposed is that if the owner within three years does not do what is necessary for this terrain, which is respectively shrubs or here and there some forest vegetation, does not clean the terrain, the Minister of Agriculture should be legally entitled to convert the agricultural land into a forest fund. The right to property in our view is violated at least because it is arable land, which has much higher natural value, brings much higher incomes. Each country seeks to preserve and increase its arable land, not the opposite, which is therefore proposed to be voted here. Excuse me for the very punctual examination of the Law what is this forest? "In the Forests Act there is no definition of how agricultural land is defined as forest. There is what is forest in land occupied by forest vegetation and so on. There are some crowns of trees, which are heights, widths, but agricultural land, if three trees that are next to each other will become forest, they can also become forest, but it is not forest. I suggest that this text at least be refined in Transitional and Final Provisions or where? Tell me what a forest is in agricultural land. We have a forest in forestry territory. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Look, I don't want to argue in general, I want to read somewhere what it is, because the other will be an extremely subjective solution. You have a map that is old, you look, you have shrubs and three walnuts, and it will be your forest, and you will make this owner, if he doesn't clean it, become a forest. I don't think it's legal even for the owners on whom land has been rebuilt. Personally, I would oppose such administrative pressure from the State to necessarily convert my land ownership back into a forest fund. I therefore say that all three paragraphs which have not been adopted by the Commission concern this matter and are essentially on these three paragraphs with my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u243	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there is no such concept as this forest in agricultural land. What the earth was before it didn't matter. It is important at the time of this Law what kind she has acquired. And what is the forest in the Law of Forests, the whole art. 2 describes exactly what forest is. Very accurate and accurate are the texts for all specialists. Those who don't understand can consult with them and find out what forest it is. I think these are some of the best texts offered in the amendments of the Law. 83 and 84. Since I have spoken about this subject before, at the moment in the agricultural lands that have acquired a characteristic of forest, there is absolute chaos. It is not clear to anyone exactly how to manage them, how to perform logging, how to be sanctioned if it is wrong and so on. Now are written extremely clear, accurate and imperative texts, so that each owner of the forest decides whether he wants this territory to its levels, to remain forest, to turn it into agricultural land. The time limits that are given to him are not at all short. The presumption is that if he had any interest in turning it into agricultural land, he would have done so by now. But if he hasn't done it yet, there's time from now on for the inventoryers or for him to consider it a forest. Then six months are given to the Executive Director to notify the Minister, then the Minister examines the Executive Director's file and gives another three years. So how many years should we give? However, there must be some foreseeable deadlines for things to happen in this country. I suggest that you support the Commission's texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u245	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 19 against 46 abstentions 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 7. Vote 88 MPs: 77 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u246	According to § 6 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, which has been withdrawn. A proposal by Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. Proposal by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is reduced to the dropping of § 6. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Rumen Zhelev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 84 is amended as follows: Art. 84. (1) Outside the cases referred to in art. 83 where a natural or legal person who owns land estates in agricultural territories finds that its properties have acquired forest characteristics within the meaning of that law after 1 March 1991 but wishes to use them as agricultural territory, it shall submit a declaration to the Director of the Regional Forest Directorate concerned. (2) A document of ownership and a sketch of the property shall be attached to the request. (3) The Director of the Regional Forest Directorate shall appoint a committee to establish the circumstances under para. 1. The Commission shall include representatives of the Regional Forest Directorate and the Municipal Agriculture Office. The Commission shall notify the person concerned or its authorised representative of the date and time at which a field inspection of the property will be carried out. (4) The Commission shall carry out a check on the forestry map, through the digital orthophoto card and other available documents on the circumstances under para. 1 and draw up a protocol. (5) When of the documents available under para. 4 cannot be determined when the properties have acquired the characteristic of forest within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1, t. 1, the Commission shall carry out an on-the-spot check to establish these circumstances. (6) Where the owner has declared in writing to the Director of the Regional Forest Directorate that he wishes to use his property as agricultural territory, and the Commission has determined that the data of the declaration correspond to the condition of the property, he shall be obliged to clean his property within three years of the submission of the declaration from the forest wood vegetation. (7) When within the term under para. 6 The owner does not clean his property from the wood vegetation; art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u247	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 91 MPs: 20, against 45, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 8, in its version of the Commission's report. Vote 87 MPs: 80 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u248	The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 after the words "al." The value of the market valuation referred to in Article 6 (a) shall be added. 79, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u249	Statements? I won't. We vote § 9. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u250	A proposal by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88, para. 5 t. 5 is repealed. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93, para. 2 t. 3 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u251	Statements? I won't. We vote on the two new paragraphs 10 and 11 in their content on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u252	Proposal by the National Representative Rumen Zhelev, which was adopted in principle by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 1 after the words. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u253	We are voting on paragraphs 12 and 13 of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u254	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: The text of art. 102 becomes paragraph 1. In paragraph 1, point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the number "sixteen' is replaced by the number "sixteen'. A new paragraph 2 shall be inserted: The specific age of the plantings at which the restocking is carried out shall be determined according to the maturity of the plantings, which shall correspond to their functional purpose specified in the Regional Development Plans of the forestry territories. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the number 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." 50 years in the screw-up forests for the conversion into seminal; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is finally added for the other low-stember forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u255	Statements on Mr. Enchev's proposal and § 14? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u256	Madam President, colleagues! I propose with regard to § 7 of the Forest Act, the change in art. 102, t. 1 to increase the age for the holding of renewable cuttings to 120 years, such as the minimum age for quantitative maturity of crops for business purposes, and further create a new para. 2 to specify, I quote, that: The specific age of the plantings in which the restocking is carried out is determined according to the maturity of the plantings, which corresponds to their functional purpose specified in the Regional Development Plans of the forestry territories. The reason for this is that in Bulgaria most forests are considered mature at the age of 120 years and I think it is wrong for the Law to encourage the renewal of the forest at a younger age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u257	You're proposing in point. 1 number..60. to be replaced by.120...................................................................................................... - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u258	Madam President, honourable Members! I think that the proposal adopted by the Commission, instead of the number..60...................................... is replaced by.... is correct and justified. I think that in the scientific circles the interpretation and the proposal Mr. Enchev made is difficult to prove, so I make a reply to Mr. Enchev to support the Commission's proposal and what we accepted at the meeting at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u259	Any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support, but the same proposal he made in the plenary to become para. 2 of § 14, in the version of the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 16, against 57, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 14 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u260	Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 2 is amended as follows: The average annual planned use by area of restocking for the duration of the respective forestry plans or programmes shall be prohibited, except because of disasters, fires, calamities and changes in the use of forest areas. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 104 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the word "Lip' is deleted; (b) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." the holding of naked logging in the lime forests of an area greater than 2 hectares; (c) the so-called t. 2, 3 and 4 become t. 3, 4 and 5. 2. The creation of para. 3: The production of wood during the dark part of the day shall be prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u261	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 16, against 60, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 15 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u262	Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which, in the part of § 9b and 9c, is reflected in its systematic place in § 17 and § 18. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words after a prescription from a forest protection station shall be deleted. 2. Point 9 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u263	Statements? I won't. We vote § 16. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u264	Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is as follows: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 3 after the expression "Admissible for logging', the added responsibility is added to the statement of responsibility. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 is created a new para. 4. The period for which the logging permit operates may not be longer than: - 3 months for quantities of wood harvested up to 1000 dense cubic meters; - 6 months for quantities of wood harvested up to 2000 dense cubic meters; - 12 months for quantities of wood harvested over 2000 dense cubic meters. Proposal by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 2 after the word "Municipality" shall be added either by the manager of the municipal forest structure under art. 181, para. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2 shall finally be added under conditions and in order laid down in the ordinance under art. 101, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u265	Statements? Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u266	I will state the reasons for this proposal. I propose that the period within which logging is allowed in a plantation should be determined by a differentiated approach according to the volume of intended use. This measure aims to limit in time and space the use of individual plantings, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the control activities of forest inspectors and thereby reducing the opportunities for widespread practice of illegal logging.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u267	Mr. Enchev's lines? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u268	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Enchev, I'm making a reply to you in that you don't explain how you set these deadlines. Why three months and not six months? Plus, you have to consider the season. In winter season, it is likely that in three months you cannot get the relevant wood, and in summer season this is too much time. Otherwise, I fully and in principle share your desire to have order when issuing the permits. There must be clarity in the direction of these permits and indeed this will facilitate the control activities of the relevant authorities. But when you do a differentiation in time, it has to be in accordance with climate conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u269	Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Enchev, all changes to this Law are aimed at increasing the control of activities in forests. Everyone knows why these changes have been imposed as a result of the great public pressure put on the forest system, that uncontrollable actions are being carried out on it, barbaric logging and so on. All texts are in the direction of increasing prevention, increasing control, improving organisation, transparency and this from beginning to end. It is this text, however, which you are proposing to bind the permit cuttings with a term of three, six, nine and so on the months with a specific cube, is absolutely not applicable in practice... I am telling you this as a person who has worked in the forests for 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-16.u271	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Enchev? You won't be using, thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 25, against 63, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 17. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. It's 2:00 p.m. So far, we'll stop with the second reading. Parliamentary Control Communication on 17 July 2015 at 11:00 p.m., Friday: 1. First will answer the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Stanislav Stanilov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Bozhinov, Krasimir Yankov, two questions, and Georgi Kadiev. 3. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev and Svetoslav Belemezov, and Vasil Antonov. 4. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 7 questions from MPs Maya Manolova [[2 questions]] , Vasil Antonov, Petar Slavov, Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Dimitar Gorov and Mikhail Mikov. 5. The Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva will answer 15 questions from the MPs Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Rumen Hristov, Dimitar Delchev stwo questions, Mihail Mikov, Borislav Iglev, Maya Manolova, Krasimir Yankov, Filip Popov, Petar Kadiev, Petar Slavov, Kalina Balabanova, Villa Lilkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Svetla Bachvarova and Dragomir Stoynev general, and Georgi Gokov. 6. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer 2 questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Stanislav Stanilov and a question from the MP Yavor Haytov. 7. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 6 questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov, Vladimir Toshev, Velizar Enchev, Maya Manolova, Boyka Marinska and Dimitar Gorov, and one question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev. 8. Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer four questions from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov [[2 questions]] , Velizar Enchev and Cornelia Ninova. 9. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MP Volen Siderov, Velizar Enchev and Kiril Dobrev, and Georgi Kadiev. 10. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. 11. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MP Dimitar Gorov. 12. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MPs Rumen Hristov and Martin Dimitrov and a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. 13. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer eight questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Bozhinov, three questions, Martin Dimitrov, Borislav Iglev and Zhelyo Boychev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova of 3 questions from the MPs Gunay Heusmen, Chavdar Georgiev and Dora Yankova and 3 questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Miho Mihov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and to a question with written answer from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question with a written answer from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva and to a question written by the National Representative Mithat Metin; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva of a question from the MPs Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Health of 3 questions from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev, Krasimir Yankov and Georgi Kadiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Gunay Heusmen to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev; - a question from the MPs Husein Hafuzov and Shabanali Durmush to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - a question from the MP Hasan Ademov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - 6 questions and 2 questions from the National Representative Slavi Binev to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, 2 questions and one question, to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov, the Minister of Defence Nikolai Nenchev and the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Social and Demographic Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin and Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will not participate. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
