ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, to your attention is the Draft Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 22 to 24 July this year as follows: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act "General project, drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote with importers "Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, and Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. 2. Second vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Forests Act -- continuation of the plenary sittings last week. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Exchange of Letters, extension of yesterday's meeting, provided as first item for tomorrow, Thursday, 23 July 2015. 4. A bill to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. A bill ratifying the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, concerning Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period from the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers suppose Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 4 February 2015; Julian Angelov and a group of MPs, also from 4 February 2015. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 20 May 2015. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs. It is intended to be point one for Friday 24 July 2015. 10. Parliamentary control over time after the debate and the vote on the Constitution amendment and supplement bill by 17.00 on Friday, 24 July 2015 Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. No proposals have been made according to the order of art. 50, para. 3. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 15 to 21 July 2015: A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importers "Stefan Danailov" and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products for 2014. It is allocated only to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers. "Roumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill ratifying the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It's also assigned to the Defence Committee. Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Budget and Finance Committee, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2014 - 20 July 2015. The Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. We're going to point one for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. (General project based on the laws adopted in the first vote on 14.07.2015 with importers: Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov, 07.07.2015; Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski, 08.07.2015) The Chairman of the Energy Commission will report. Mr. Dobrev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Miroslava Hristova
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u3	We vote, fellow Members, the motion for admission to the Chamber. They voted 114 MPs: 110, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u4	Report on the General Law of the First Voting on 14 July 2015. Draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-124, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov on 7 July 2015, and Draft Supplement to the Energy Act, No 554-01-126, submitted by Dimitar Tanev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski on 8 July 2015, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u5	We vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u6	Proposal from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. A new item is created. 22: "22." issue a decree for public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies with 50 and over 50 per cent state or municipal participation in the capital carrying out activities under this law. 2. Previously on "T." 22 becomes t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u7	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u8	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thus, the proposed § 1, which practically adds t. Art. 22, Art. 4 of the Energy Act, and in art. 4 The Energy Act states that the Minister of Energy conducts energy policy in the sector, meaning it is not clear how the Minister of Energy will be able to issue a regulation for public disclosure and optimization of expenditure in municipal companies with 50% and more than 50% participation of local authorities. The importers most likely, by submitting this text, are based on the thesis that the Minister of Energy is also the principal of the commercial companies in the sector........................................................................................... The text itself, we urged at first reading our colleagues from the Reformation Block to make it more precise. We're for publicity. We are about the Bulgarian citizens to have information on how their money is managed, because the ownership of the state can also be accepted as property of the Bulgarian people, but it is not clear exactly how, when the Minister of Energy is not a principal, but the local authorities in the face of municipal councils are managing these shares, how will the Minister of Energy be obliged to issue a regulation to optimize the costs of a commercial company with municipal participation? Please explain to all of us before we vote on the text, this proposal of ours or, in the other case, a proposal to add to the text itself. Art. 22 of art. 4 in § 1 after a municipal interest in capital, in accordance with the principle of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u9	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u10	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The question that has just been raised is legitimate. We had talks with the Minister of Energy on this subject. Colleagues, our idea is as follows: a reform of state and municipal energy must be carried out. Such a reform so far has only happened in NEK. There is a 10% reduction in costs and, as you can see, there are no strikes, no protests, just costs are reduced by 10%. For the text that we have written, our idea is as follows: the decree which the Ministry of Energy will adopt will have a binding character for state companies, and for the municipal will have a recommended, instructive, methodological character. That's our idea, Mr. Yankov, although it's not explicitly written, it's clear. It's implied. You may not be a principal and to issue a mandatory regulation, but there are similar practices for texts to have a methodical, instructive nature and, accordingly, those municipal councils and those principals who consider such a reform to be carried out, to use methodical guidelines and the approach that will be recorded in the ordinance for municipal enterprises. I am immediately telling you what is the great benefit of one such text is that it will be possible to use a single approach for all municipal companies and now some principals will apply it, others and not, but the point is that there will be, how to call it, a unified approach and everyone will be asked to apply it. Otherwise, the other option of action is to wait for each principal to draw up a similar approach and similar guidance, which is a more clumsy approach and is not known whether it will be implemented. After all, colleagues, optimizing the costs of Bulgarian energy includes state and municipal companies. We cannot miss the municipal, and because you are right, colleague, that there is no way that this regulation has a binding character for companies where the Minister of Energy is not a principal, it is clear that they will have a recommended character and we believe that this approach should be maintained in order for the overall effect to be positive and favourable, that is to say, an option in which only state energy cuts costs, and in municipal councils are waiting to decide to do something is incomplete, colleagues. That was our idea all along.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u11	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u12	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Dimitrov, you come out of the parliamentary tribune and tie the ribbon, called the reform. What reform has been made in energy? I have made a very constructive proposal and you have admitted that it cannot be binding for companies with municipal participation in the capital of the sector............................................................................................. And I quite rightly added to the text, which, honourable Mr President, I ask that the vote be put to the vote and that the text be: in the case of municipal participation, in conjunction with the principle of the company, i.e. the Minister of Energy together with the principle of the municipal company to issue such a regulation. What's your objection? Do you mind recording such a text? Then the regulation will not be of a recommended nature, it will again have a compulsory, imperative character, but it will be jointly with the one responsible for the policy in the sector and the owner of the municipal participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. There's no second line. Martin Dimitrov for the coat, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u14	The only reason, my colleague, that I do not support your proposal is the concern that this will make the process very complicated and delayed. Imagine the number of municipal companies and the number of principals. We do not have much time to waste, and this will lead if we introduce such an approach for each principal to adopt a coherent approach. I understand your idea. It's generally positive. The only thing that bothers me, which is why I refrain from supporting her is that it will take a long time to have this conversation with each principal. The most important one is the Toplofication - Sofia, that is clear. This is the most key object for which we want a similar measure. Let the court decide. It makes sense, I admit, in your idea. [[National Representative Krasimir Jankov applauded.]] It also makes sense in your idea, yes, I'm telling you absolutely frankly. The only problem is that this will slow down and complicate the process, so let the assessment be in plenary. If colleagues decide with regard to municipal energy to have an instructive, methodological character in this regulation, to accept the option that we have proposed. If colleagues decide that we have the potential and the opportunity to include the principals in the drafting of the ordinance of municipal enterprises, then let us accept the proposal, which the BSP colleague made that, with regard to municipal energy, the energy minister together with the principal, prepares the municipal part or the part concerning municipal energy in this regulation. There are both these, colleagues. Again, my only concern is that we do not delay the process of adopting the regulation too much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Noise and lines, several MPs are speaking in front of the stand.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u17	Please, colleagues, release the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u18	Because the law, Mr. Chairman, is very flexible, so this is going to happen all the time in front of the stands, so we have to get used to it. I take the attitude once again to stress the readiness of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria to support the creation of such a regulation not for something else, but because we really are for publicity. We're for clarity. We are about knowing how state property is managed and whether it is managed in the interest of the State or in the interests of individual parts of the State. However, it is really nice to think about how we will formulate this regulation, because when we have municipal property, it is hard to imagine that the minister can simultaneously issue a single regulation that regulates relations in this part. That is why I think it is really good to think about and bring the opportunity, if the Commission and the lawyers are ready here for this thing, how to formulate the possibility in the regulation, when there is municipal property, that this regulation should be made jointly with the relevant principal of the installation concerned. It is true that only the Sofia district heating has more than 50% municipal property, but it is still nice to keep that in mind. [[Heckling]] The mayor is not a principal, the principal is the municipal council in principle under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. So please very much, let's think about how, if you have any proposal ready, let's include it. I think that what my colleague Iankov proposed is a good solution in cases where we have such a case, that this regulation be jointly between the Ministry of Energy and the relevant principal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Line, Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Taskov. [[Elevator bell dings]] We need to be aware that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u21	It's not Mr. Taskov, it's Mr. Tasco Ermenkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u22	Yes, Tasco Ermenkov, we should be aware that for nearly a year the government of Boyko Borisov and Minister Temenuzhka Petkova still perform their functions and powers and manage the sector Such a regulation should be assumed to legitimise actions taken, measures prescribed by the owner to optimize costs so far, and not one year we manage, and now for the people through the legislative authority we place the commitment to issue a regulation and the sector will now be managed with optimised costs, with reduced amounts of funds. Colleague Ermenkov, as regards the Municipal Property Supplement in the Sector [[Replication of MP Delyan Dobrev]] , especially for the "Toplofication Sofia" we have a management through the Sofia Municipal Council, which has not even experienced any cataclysm. [[On the electronic dashboard it is written that there is a statement of the MP Atanas Merdjanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u23	Mr. Iankov, why did you disguise yourself as Mr. Merdjanov with his card? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u24	Thanks for interrupting. I get the point. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u25	There's a second line, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u26	Dear Madame Chairman, Madame Minister! His name is Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, colleague Iankov, that's your colleague's name. So that's my cue to him. Mr. Ermenkov, let us honestly say that the reform of state and municipal energy, the optimization of expenditure has not happened since many governments, that there was no will for this and, I hope, with the support of Parliament, by the fact that most groups will vote on this text, the Minister of Energy to see that there is now a will that because of the tariff deficit of NEK, because of all the problems we see in Bulgarian energy and not only because we now want to take these measures, which for a long time there was no will to be adopted. Colleagues, they don't have a party hue. He's gonna run someone else tomorrow. And the next day there will be a third government. The question is in this mandate to start the optimization and to complete the optimization of the costs of state energy, because otherwise we have given many examples of costs that are not justified. If the landing flows from a lot of places, we won't solve the problems. This is the idea at the moment, so I invite you not to have, as was the previous line, some elementary politics of the kind: why didn't you reduce them so far in state and municipal energy? Colleagues, I would ask: why didn't the last governments reduce them when they had to reduce them? But this conversation is infertile, I don't want to go there at all. There's no point in this conversation. The right conversation at the moment is: now there is the will to be done. And I hope for maximum political support to optimize the costs of state and municipal energy, otherwise, colleagues, I am even inclined in this spirit of constructiveism to support your proposal of BSP, regarding municipal energy, to be jointly with the principals. Why not? It is precisely to show that there is the will to reform and that in this way we make the texts even mandatory for municipal enterprises. If the Minister of Energy does not have any special remarks to dissuade us and show that this would be much more complicated, I would even support this text in the name of constructiveism and in the name of showing that we are all behind this reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u27	Third line? I won't. A hole? Is this the most important text in the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u28	He's the least important one. Dear Mr. Iankov, it was a little difficult to understand your line, but it seems to me that you meant whether Minister Petkova as Minister of Energy... Dear Minister, I'm sorry I didn't address you. I looked at my colleagues and didn't notice you, which is insulting, of course, for me, not for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u29	Mr. Ermenkov, I understand that you have to seal three minutes of time and that is your tactics for the Law, but give it a little tighter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u30	Okay, I'm gonna start really tight. I just wanted to ask Minister Petkova if she understands this regulation only in the field of electricity, or is it about all state energy, on the one hand? On the other hand, Mr. Dimitrov, I completely agree with you that we should not look back. Because if we look back and move forward, there is a great danger of continuing to stumble and repeat our old mistakes. Therefore, I say again, we will support this regulation. The only thing that is about the purity of the regulation, about the purity of the Law, about not making additions again after about two months, as this Law has become a habit for us to change it every two months, amend it, supplement it, expand it and so on. Right now, let's solve this problem, include the principals, as long as the Minister of Energy doesn't mind. But I don't see what he's against when it comes to joint property. Once again, we will support this regulation. However, our request is that it be clearly formulated so that we do not make new additions and extensions to the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u31	Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the editorial supplement of Mr. Yankov, which he proposes in point. 22 after the text of the municipal participation in the capital, add to the principle of the companies. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] "Coherent with the company's principle. "
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u32	Only in conjunction with the principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u33	..a municipal capital contribution, in conjunction with the principle....this is the last one. We vote on Mr. Yankov's proposal. They voted 107 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the general version of § 1 of the Commission report, in line with Mr. Iankov's proposal. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u34	Paragraph 1 supposed by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The regulations and rules adopted by the Commission shall be published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u35	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u36	Proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. Two and three. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1, t. 18 prior to the word "Sertifications', the words "Sertifications' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u37	Report unsupported points 2 and 3 of Mr. Simeonov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u38	..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: "2." point 21 is amended as follows: ..21. determine the availability for the production of electricity of each manufacturer, as well as the amount of electricity that the public supplier and final suppliers must buy under the DEV and Art. 162 of the Energy Act, in accordance with which producers and/or the public supplier are obliged to enter into transactions with final suppliers, independent transmission operator and electricity distribution system operators; 3. A new t. is created. 21a: 21a. determine the amount of electricity subject to compulsory buying-in by the public supplier monthly by producers for the transmission network and monthly for each final supplier for the quantities under art. 94, para. 1 by manufacturer, separately for RES and VECP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u39	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal in the part where he is not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 11 against 19, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 3. Vote 107 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u40	Paragraph 2 supposed by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 the following 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." in which producers within the scope of their availability by the Commission under art. 21, para. 1, t. 21 et seq. 21a sell electricity to the public supplier to cover the consumption of final suppliers; 2. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. for which producers, within the scope of their availability determined by the Commission, sell electricity to transmission and distribution grid operators to cover the technological costs of transmission; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u41	Statements? I won't. We are voting against the Commission's unsupported proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. They voted 115 MPs: for 6, against 7, abstention 102. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u42	Mr. Chairman, I want a re-vote. The Quaestors saw that the console didn't work at all. Other colleagues also failed to vote. I hope that you will reconsider the vote and be 106 votes for the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u43	Revoting a proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, not supported by the Commission. Voting mode. They voted 113 MPs: 15 against 9, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 2, which becomes § 4. They voted 111 MPs: 108, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u44	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev, Hristo Todorov, Chavdar Peychev and Rumen Yonchev in art. 31, t. The following point is inserted after point (b) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) For contributions to the fund under art. 36c, defined by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The Commission does not support the proposal. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u45	Debates? Here you go, Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! There is some ambiguity in understanding the proposal we are making, and some stubbornness must not be accepted. What do we mean? The contributions to the Energy Security Fund shall be made by undertakings which are an organisational type of power plants as well as by energy undertakings that produce highly efficient and by RES and so on. What happens to the contributions made by the free market plants? In their price and the price of energy for the free market will definitely include these 5%.. believe me. The price of the free market in Bulgaria will necessarily increase by these 5%. There's no way that's not gonna happen. Our business colleagues will feel this, as they work exclusively and only on a free market in electricity. For the organisational plants or for the plants working for a free market, it will be the way in which they will deal with the problem, that is, the withdrawal from their revenues of 5% will not actually work. What we do when we do not recognise the costs of plants producing combined electricity and heat. Since they are fully priced, their prices are strictly set and subject to the costs they incur during the relevant regulatory periods. If we do not recognise the cost of 5% for actual expenditure not only for tax purposes, but also for price regulation purposes, this means that this has disappeared revenue without any return. This is categorically contrary to any European directives and requirements to support cogeneration of electricity and heat and will in any case bring us into litigation. From now on Bulgaria will be sued, the state will be sued by energy enterprises that produce combined electricity and heat. I would like to point out that the entry of these 5% in expenditure does not mean that these plants or these producers will be reimbursed the 5 percent they import into the Energy Security Fund. Nothing like the prices of the regulated market are determined by methodologies. There are different coefficients and the burden of each cost is different, so that in no case they will bring in some money and then this money through NEK to be reimbursed to them. This is not the case, and this understanding of some Members, even in the Commission, is completely wrong. I have tried to make an analysis, of course, the subject is very specific, but I appeal to support for this expenditure in the Energy Security Fund for enterprises that are regulated annually to be recognised for the purposes of price regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u47	A line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u48	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear Mr Nedev, the first thing I disagree with is in terms of high-efficiency cogeneration through 100%, i.e. production from these plants is 100% on the regulated market. As you know, only that part remains, which is highly efficient, the other part, which is on top of these same plants, will be sold on the free market. You are right in principle to put the issue this way, but the bad thing is that if we put your proposal inside, that means that it is not the producers who will pay the 5%, and then we will pay them as consumers, because the price of electricity will rise by 5%. If we are going to do this, then perhaps more correct is to say that each consumer pays a 5% contribution of its energy consumption in this fund, which in fact shows that the idea of the fund itself is not the best solution to solving energy problems. As they say, out of both evils, colleagues have chosen the smaller one to have such a fund. For this reason, I don't think we can afford to put that 5% into the price. A responsibility must be borne by the producers. It is in this regard, so that there are no harm done, so that there are no people who feel unpunished, then, when the time comes, we will put it as a question. We suggested, first of all, that the contribution be reduced from 5 to 4%, and second of all, that everyone working in the electricity sector should get inside, so that there wouldn't be a feeling that some of us put them in excess, and some of us left them to live their lives. Moreover, we have left them necessarily and these are the American plants, as they will not pay anything, and in the end this fund collects money with which we will pay their Masraf. Unfortunately, it is, Mr Nedev. Otherwise, I understand your arguments very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? Here you go, Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u50	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, yes, it is really only about the regulated part of the electricity that businesses produce, and only it creates a problem, because the rest, which is not highly efficient, energy companies find a way to implement it on the free market anyway. There they will approach the way I explained at the beginning of my speech. So they will necessarily put it in the price and it will affect the end user. That's it! From now on, we have to follow the parallel. A free-market price is reflected on the end-user. However, no price on the regulated market is reflected on the end-user. I can't agree with you. This is exactly what is contained in our proposal to have equality between one and the other. Yes, these energy enterprises are placed in a two-fold role and they are both on the free market and on the regulated market, but the part of the regulated market, especially in winter, is extremely large and they will suffer extremely large losses that are irrecoverable. You know very well that, in the European directives, such costs, which are irrecoverable in no way to undertakings that have high-efficiency electricity and heat production, these costs are transferred to the end-user. It is explicitly written in the European directives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u51	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: 14 against 45, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 3, which becomes § 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 105 against 9, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the hall of Mr. Georgi Stoyanov.. Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u53	We're voting on clearance mode. Vote 112 MPs: 99, Against 6, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u54	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 5 after the word "Secretary" the transmission network operator and the distribution network operators shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u55	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 4, which becomes § 6 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u56	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by MPs Kiril Tsochev, Miho Mihov and Lachezar Nikiforov, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev, Hristo Todorov, Chavdar Peychev and Rumen Yonchev: The following amendments shall be made in § 5: 1. Article 36c is amended as follows: Art. 36c. (1) All authorised entities of electricity transactions, according to art. 92 of the Energy Act make contributions to the Energy Security Fund in the amount of 1% of the monthly payments received from electricity transactions without VAT. (2) The parties to the transactions under para. 1 submit up to the 5th number of the current month information in the electric energy fund subject of transactions in the previous month. (3) The contributions to the Fund shall be paid within 15 days of receipt of the revenue from the electricity transactions and shall be recognised as running costs for the purposes of taxation and price regulation. (4) The contributions under para. 1 are public government claims, and the outstanding contributions are established and collected under the order of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency. (5) The funds and operations of the fund shall be included in the consolidated fiscal programme, such as funds and operations of other economic entities under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act, and are not part of the state budget. (6) The claim for compensation from the Fund shall not be the subject of seizure and shall be non-secresible. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36g is created para. 3: The amount of the increase in revenue under para. 1, t. 2 proportionately reduce the contribution under art. 36c, t. 1 for the following year. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Mustafa Ahmed, Ahmed Ahmedov and Jayhan Ibryamov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36c para. 1 is amended as follows: The electricity generators shall make contributions to the Energy System Security Fund in accordance with the type of source they use and the installed power of their energy sites. The amount of the contributions is determined by the KEWRC as a percentage based on their monthly revenues from electricity sold without VAT for the previous year. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Assoc. Milen Mihov: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36c para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, (2) The amount of contributions for producers under para. 1 whose weighted average rate of return is less than 2,5% is 1% of the monthly revenue from electricity produced. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36g are created t. 6 and 7: It's six. 50% of BEH's consolidated dividend; 7. Revenue from trade in green certificates carried out by NEK EAD The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Krasimir Yankov, Chavdar Georgiev and Georgi Turnovalyski. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 3 and 4 and does not support it by t. 2: The following amendments shall be made in § 5: 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of electricity producers and authorised persons operating in the electricity sector, the Fund shall contribute to the Fund of 4 percent of its monthly revenue from electricity transactions. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 2 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 submit up to the fifth number of the current month information in the electricity transaction fund for the previous month. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Chapter 3, Section IV is created art. 36b "36g." Art. 36b. (1) For the management of the funds to cover the costs incurred by the public supplier arising from its obligations under art. 93a, as determined by a decision of the Commission, including for past regulatory periods, is created the Power System Security Fund, hereinafter referred to as the "Funda'. (2) Payment to the public provider to cover expenditure by means of funds from the fund shall be made monthly. (3) The Fund shall be a legal entity with its registered office in Sofia. Art. 36c. (1) The Fund shall be determined by the Management Board. (2) The Governing Council shall consist of five members to be designated as follows: 1. Chairman by the Minister of Energy; 2. one member from the Minister of Finance; 3. one member by the Minister of Environment and Water; 4. two members of the electricity producers. (3) The members of the Governing Council shall be determined in accordance with rules established by the Minister of Energy. (4) The Minister of Energy shall, by order, determine the name composition of the Management Board in consultation with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Environment and Water and with the producers of electricity. (5) A member of the Management Board shall not be a member of a person who has been convicted of a common offence or is a spouse or relative by rights or by line to the fourth degree and by matchmaking to the third degree, including with another member of the management bodies of the fund. Art. Thirty-six years. (1) The Management Board shall be convened by the Chair. (2) The meetings of the Governing Council shall be regular if they are attended by not less than two thirds of its members. (3) The decisions of the Management Board shall be adopted by a clear vote and by a simple majority of the members present. (4) The Management Board shall: 1. adopt Rules on the organisation and activities of the Fund and Rules on the spending of funds and operations of the Fund; 2. supervise the administration of the fund's revenue and expenditure; 3. send an annual report of its activities to the Ministry of Energy by 31 March, which shall be submitted by the Minister of Energy to the Council of Ministers for adoption and to the Commission for information; 4. perform other functions related to the management of the fund in accordance with the existing regulations. Art. 36e. (1) The funds of the fund shall be raised by: 1. the contributions under art. 36f; 2. the revenue received from the auctions for the sale of allowances under art. 57, para. 1 of the Climate Change Restriction Act; 3. interest income, including late payments of contributions under point (c) 1; 4. donations; 5. the revenues from the statistical transfer of energy from renewable sources. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be spent for maintenance related to the activities of the fund and payment of funds to cover the costs incurred by the public provider arising from its obligations under art. 93a, determined by a decision of the Commission, including for past regulatory periods. Art. 36f. (1) Contributions to the Fund of 5 percent shall be made on a monthly basis: 1. producers of electricity from the revenues of electricity sold without VAT; 2. traders who import electricity from the revenues from the imported and sold electricity to the market in the country without VAT. (2) Electricity producers and traders who import electricity into the market in the country shall submit to the fund up to the fifth number of the current month information on the revenues under para. 1 for the previous month. (3) The contributions to the Fund shall be paid up to the 15th of the month following the month to which they relate and shall be recognised for the current costs of the activity for the purposes of taxation. (4) For the purposes of price regulation in the composition of the expenditure recognised by the Commission shall not include expenditure for contributions under para. 1. (5) The contributions under para. 1 are public government claims, and the outstanding contributions are established and collected under the order of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency. (6) The funds and operations of the fund shall be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as funds and operations of other economic entities under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act and are not part of the state budget. (7) The funds made available by the Fund for payment of the costs incurred by the public supplier shall not be the subject of a set-off and shall be non-secvestible. Art. 36g. The Council of Ministers shall determine by regulation the order and manner of raising, spending, reporting and control of the funds of the fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The point of the proposal we are making is within the circle of those who are obliged to support the security of the electricity system to include both the ERPs and the exporters of electricity. After all, they are part of the energy system, accumulated, and with quite good profitability, revenues from it and it is normal to assume their part of the responsibility for its stabilisation. The other thing we think it is necessary to specify is the contribution made by companies that have low profitability. We are, of course, talking about profitability established by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Such is the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy," such is the Maritsa East 2s. There are, of course, other market entities where the 5% contribution would actually lead to a difficulty - a drastic reduction in profit or even loss. In this case, we believe that we should support these companies. I mean, not to support, but to make less of their contribution. We suggest that it be 1%. At the same time, in order to compensate for a lower contribution from these several entities, we should provide for additional sources of funding for the fund. In addition to the ERPs and exports of electricity, we propose that such a source be the dividends of state-owned companies that are now going to the general government budget. We believe that 50% of them should be targeted at this fund. We believe that the proposals are summary, are financially linked and the extension of the circle of the entities making contributions, as well as the expansion of the sources of the fund will compensate for the lower contribution to the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and respectively for the other entities with low profitability.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u60	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I will speak with regard to that part of our proposal, which has not been accepted, i.e. 2 I mean, I just want to add that during the Commission meeting we had expanded our statement, which has not been reflected in the report. For the debtors after the expression "the debtor', we have said that for the debtors who have an established rate of return of up to 4%, the monthly contribution is 1% because now you cannot get someone to pay 4% at 4% return. I want to explain one more time why we're trying to do this. At the moment, we are in a situation where electricity producers, mostly state-owned enterprises, because they produce 70% of the electricity in the country, will have to pay the main part of the contributions to this fund. Madam Minister knows very well that the electricity producers in the public sector are not in color. I'd say they're the only ones on which to some extent it's still holding NEK, sucking them out extra, not paying and so on. Now we with 5% hit them mainly and there is a danger that the entire electricity sector of Bulgaria will be killed by killing the hen that carries the golden eggs, namely the state producers. The philosophy we make in our proposal is to allocate this burden to everyone who deals with the sale of electricity. I will add a little bit later, by removing the companies that export, not for anything else, but because we already have the bad experience from 2012, when we introduced the fees and killed Bulgaria's exports, but instead we stimulated the export from Romania. What we are proposing is, in addition to electricity producers, that all licensed entities that deal with electricity pay not 5, but 4%, i.e., on the one hand, we reduce the burden mainly, notice, again on state-owned enterprises that produce 70% of electricity. One percent is important to them. That's right, Minister, isn't it? [[Reply from Minister Temenuzhka Petkova.]] One percent is more than important to them. At the same time, we are burdening remaining players outside of this scheme, which is offered to us, for the reason that we have to bear solidarity responsibility in the country with regard to these obligations. Moreover, by introducing this principle of equality of all players, if I may say so, in the field of electricity, we are subtracting one of the main cards of the opponents of this Law that it is unconstitutional. Because there's a danger that if we take some of the players out of this field, we'll be accused of not putting everyone involved in electrics into the same responsibilities. In this regard, we have done the calculations that, in the case of a reduced percentage by one but allocated to more enterprises, the proceeds in the fund, I stress once again that we have, in principle, our own, say, doubts as appropriate of this fund, but suppose that the proceeds in this fund will even be more than 5% on fewer enterprises, which is actually the goal, as far as I understand it. In any case, we are also reducing the imbalance by at least 1% indeed, but between all the producers and the US power plants that will not pay anything. So we also reduce this uncompetitive environment between them by another 1%, that is, otherwise we will have 5% differences in conditions, now we will have four. I therefore ask you very much to reconsider, Members of this House, this proposal of ours and to vote on it. Mr. Chairman, I will read to you, as this is not fully reflected, which we are...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u61	Give it editorially as your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u62	Okay, I'll give it to you editorialally or, if there's a line, maybe I can answer it within the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u63	Are there any lines? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Give it in writing, write it down. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Okay, read it. I'm giving you a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u64	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, thank you for your constructiveness. The proposal is: In the case of electricity producers and authorised persons operating in the electricity sector, the fund shall contribute four percent of its monthly revenue from electricity transactions, except for export transactions. The debtors, who have an established rate of return of up to 4%, pay a contribution of 1%.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, this is actually one of the most basic measures in this Energy Act. In this way, it is precisely the call for the government to intervene so as not to raise prices for both consumers and businesses. This is actually the way that is practised in several countries, a special fund is created that can rob, say, the lufts or the tariff deficit in the National Electricity Company. Of course, those 5% aren't random. Firstly, as Mr Ermenkov said, as others have said, a percentage is being made equal for all producers so as not to be attacked at the Constitutional Court. Of course, the arguments in relation to state-owned enterprises matter. Some of the profits of those who make profits will be taken away, we are talking in particular about the nuclear power plant The nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" at 800 million revenues from the sale of electricity, their share in the fund will be around 40 million. lv. Last year, if memory serves me right, the Kozloduy nuclear power plant formed 68 million. lv. A profit, only that Kozloduy NPP cannot handle the profit because it has gone to the National Electricity Company, which is more and more delaying its payments and currently the debts are about 150 million. That is, at some point, this profit, instead of going for the extension of the V and VI block, the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, becomes one of the creditors of the National Electricity Company and one that helps it to be able to fill this tariff deficit, which cannot last any longer. In fact, at this time when this fund is created and the tariff deficit is completed on the basis of the Commission's energy and water regulation accounts, the cash flow to the nuclear power plant will improve many times, at least this is what we expect, and thus it will be able to have that money. And in fact, the 40 million that will be put into this fund will remain in energy rather than being given, as this year's nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, as dividends in the Republican budget. So that's how we leave the money in the energy sector. I think it's the right decision, which means we're not going to hurt so many state-owned companies. Similarly, the attitude towards the TPP is similar to the TPP Maritza Iztok 2. Regarding Mr. Ermenkov's proposal, I would welcome such a proposal, it is really 1% to alleviate the contributions of these state-owned companies by expanding the base, but I think there is a small problem in the texts because there are written all licensed and we know that traders are also not licensed companies, they export electricity. And once we tax production by 5%, if we bet exports by 5%, we will actually become very uncompetitive. [[Heckling]] Yes, it is. I think that's the main part and the weight of this bill. I suggest we support the producers 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u67	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u68	Mr. Nikolov, there is no question that this fund will help NEK improve its payment with electricity-producing enterprises. The problem in my proposal is not to reduce the money in the fund, but, on the contrary, with my proposal, this money is increasing, with which what you say has a better chance of happening. Moreover, I explicitly suggested not to include exports in this part at the moment, as well as "Maritsa Iztok 2" and "Kozloduy" are net donors of the system, including "Kozloduy" which a small part of its production sells at 30 BGN, almost twice below the cost of covering the technological costs of the ERPs, which, if we do not accept my proposal, we leave them without any commitment to the fund at all. That is why I am making this proposal so that everyone in the system can really be involved and that everyone can get their money, including mostly state-owned enterprises. And we're easing them by 1%, which I think is not very small.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I won't. A hole? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! It is clear that our energy system is debalanced and it is clear to all of us that the black hole in this system is actually the two American power plants. And now we are once again redesigning the Law so that we can come up with some kind of fund to import money into NEK, and from NEK to reassign them to somewhere, mainly for these plants and so on, instead of you, Minister, to enter your functions and oblige NEK to enter into negotiations with the plants and on the grounds of art. 307 of the Commercial Law to say that this is a commercial inability... the price applied to them in this order, that it has nothing to do with the market economy and to terminate these contracts. But obviously you don't have the courage to do this, nor does the ruling majority. But I have taken the floor to protect you, colleagues, from a mistake that we are now about to make. It is not today's dispute, it is a long time ago, about where it should be spent and what funds from greenhouse gas quotas should be spent on. And the way we recorded it in art. 36d, para. 1, t. 2: The incomes received from trading for the sale of allowances under art. 57, para. 1 of the Climate Change Restriction Act, this will be a feather in the common fund for the redistribution of funds, including the energy of US power plants. This is unacceptable under regulations and directives of the European Union. There's no way we can fund the proceeds of this money for the Americans' pleasure. That's not gonna happen. So I propose to you that we best complement... and I make this editorial proposal, the same point. 2 of art. 36e with one supplement:.. which is used for the development of renewable energy. This is the wording both in the directives and in our Law, so that at least that part of the revenue in the fund can be spent only to support renewable energy sources. I will not enter into the dispute about what development means, whether it is for new capacities, whether it can subsidise part of the price of existing renewable sources. But, you see, it's the right thing to do. 2 we should add to that which is used for the development of renewable energy sources. Thank you. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u71	Just please repeat your proposal one more time. You wrote it... I read everything... - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. After him will be Mr. Simeonov. The third line is still vacant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Mr. Georgiev, you are obviously not familiar and perhaps you do not want to know the fact that the last few months the Ministry of Energy has made a huge effort to make precisely to reduce the cost of availability of US power plants by nearly 1 billion. BGN, which will save the National Electricity Company for the entire remaining period of the contracts with the US power plants. You as a lawyer should know that we may very much want to make a price reduction here, but in the end there is a trade contract that is signed back in time.. whether it is correct or not, it is hardly now that we have to argue, but in the end we cannot just wish that we want to make some reduction and, here, you see, we call on how to reduce this cost of availability or production we are purely willing to do it. I don't think... And you, as a lawyer, are very well aware that this is impossible. As far as the contributions they will make to the Fund from selling allowances are concerned, there is also a managing authority that will be able to determine how these funds will be spent by the Fund. You are right that they must go precisely to cover the obligations relating to the purchase of mandatory energy from renewable energy sources. So there's nothing to worry about. This money from the fund will be spent this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u73	Mr. Simeonov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I call on, when considering and discussing this bill, to avoid politics, making policy, simply because we will not have enough day. It's a pretty heavy bill. It has to be passed. It is very important that this happens before August 1st. The date of the new formation of the prices from the SEWRC. So, Mr. Georgiev, there is no point in talking, saying things that do not correspond to the truth, have nothing to do with both the current situation and the trends. I would like to assure you that no one, at least from the circle that has prepared this bill that I know, as well as from the people of the Energy Commission and from the other KEWRC committees, as well as energy control, has ever heard of defending the so-called US power plants in any way. So don't make him believe that everything was turning around almost to be preserved! Moreover, you know that there is a Bill to end contracts with US power plants. I appeal and hope that your parliamentary group will support this Bill, because in this way these enslaving treaties can be terminated and not with recommendations, as you say, to NEK, to the Ministry, because any other decision, believe me, we have already quite investigated the world, in this case European practice, would lead to very serious sanctions to the Bulgarian state, which I am sure you would not want to tolerate either. So less politics, more truth and business! And for the other proposal, this fund should only be directed to RES, at this stage with the existing assets and liabilities simply cannot happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u75	For the third line, Delyan Dobrev. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u76	Third line. Mr. Georgiev, you are right in essence that the revenues received from auctions for the sale of allowances under art. 57, para. 1 of the Climate Change Restriction Act can be spent only on stimulating and developing RES energy. The question is whether it is necessary to explicitly record this in the Law at the moment and to determine only one of the revenues exactly what is being spent or to leave this opportunity to the Management Board, which, if you see para. 4 t. 1 of it, states that it adopts rules on the organisation and activities of the Fund and rules on the spending of funds and operations of the Fund. That is, we have already included this obligation in the Management Board and by specifying what only one type of income will be spent on, we are going into too much detail in the specific Bill. And you have also probably pointed out that when we made the changes in February and transferred the revenues from the carbon allowances, we transferred them to this particular objective to meet the objectives for which these funds can be spent, as you know that where they are currently located is in the PUDOS, but we are not quite sure that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u77	A hole, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u78	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Madam Minister! I'll start backwards. I see nothing wrong with us in the Law to have a clear text that says that this part of the income in the fund will be spent targeted. I think this is right, as we will thus create an obligation and a framework of action of the Board of Directors of the Fund, so that it does not accidentally get confused in favour of the US power plants. With regard to whether it is only possible to resolve the problem with the power plants through a bill or not, I firmly believe that until now only some wishes to review the location of these power plants in the energy system are declared and nothing is being done. This has been the case for years, they have been receiving non-market prices, I say absolutely categorically. For this reason, all energy is pulling down and NEK is sinking by millions, hundreds of millions a year. I am therefore firmly of the opinion that there are also mechanisms in our current legislation to renegotiate these prices. These are mechanisms in force which were also in force during the conclusion of the contracts, so they also apply to those contracts. After colleague Simeonov proposes such a bill and he will solve the problem, we will probably support it. Because this is the sensible solution.. this ulcer in Bulgarian energy in any way to operate and clog it so that there is no non-market leakage of funds. Colleagues, I ask you to support this supplement of mine, as I believe it is appropriate and will only benefit from the adoption of clear regulation with these amendments to the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u79	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Atalay, we're listening to your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in fact, the whole Law that we are looking at is basically this fund. The idea, in order to make such an urgent and rapid bill, which, colleagues, we adopted unanimously in this House that it was necessary, was precisely because of this Electricity System Security Fund. At the moment, perhaps disputes are how to find the different paths in order to achieve the goal. Our aim is clear, fellow Members, to balance and to stop the tariff deficit. Nothing other than what's said here, we don't have a purpose. I welcome that we have finally reached a consensus in plenary that such a fund is necessary. Our proposal, colleagues, is from a point of view that this fund is suddenly unconstitutional and that we have not chosen a different path and not the right one. That's why we made our proposal. Our proposal is for electricity producers to make contributions to the Electricity System Security Fund in accordance with the type of source they use and the installed power of their energy sites. At the moment, in order for there to be no such doubts as Mr. Georgiev is expressing here without reason, we have decided to provide the independent committee - the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission - to determine the amount, the percentage based on their monthly revenues from the electricity sold. There are already accounting for how it will be implemented.. there are laws. Perhaps this would have been, honourable Members, a motive where, if anyone decided, there would still be producers who would refer to the court, to prove that we are striving for all that we are doing to be within the framework of the Constitution. Colleagues, we have also intervened very seriously in the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The right colleagues are saying that the deadline is now August 1st, because it was July 1st. Already 70 million additional deficits have accumulated only this month in the National Electricity Company from this decision that the National Assembly took to postpone the regulatory period by one month. However, if we continue in this way to want to consider a number of other prerequisites that are necessary for the formation of this fund, I am sure that the people who pay BGN 53. obligation to society and business pays BGN 18,23 and with the proposal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission people, the final customers would pay BGN 40. and the business would have paid within 23-25 BGN. In order not to delay the process and give this opportunity to the business and some people to make final customers pay much more than what is due to them as a burden, and with the idea that everyone who has implemented or made a burden on this system to pay more than 5%, which today for this fund you want to accept, was our proposal. Given all this, I am inclined to withdraw our proposals in order not to proceed further. God forbid, perhaps the House will accept our proposals, then the entire scheme of this Bill must be changed, and on top of that, the Commission before setting these percentages will pass August 1st. That is why we will withdraw our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u81	Are there any lines to Mr. Atali? Mr. Ananiev is giving up his speech. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u82	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! I confirm that, in fact, the changes to the Energy Act are mostly in this paragraph, the creation of this fund to compensate for the lack of funds in NEK. The responsibility is fully borne by the importers, by the government and in a few minutes will be borne by those who will support it. How much chaos will be created in the energy sector, we will still be witnesses. Good intentions are not always crowned with concrete good results. However, colleagues, imperatively in the texts, the question of the contributions of these 5% of electricity producers is settled on the basis of revenue up to the 15th number to be imported into the fund. I note that, in commercial relations, the issue of the invoice itself is already accounted for as revenue, that is to say, an amount may not have been paid on the invoice issued, and we are imperative that the producer up to the 15th number brings the 5% accrued on the revenue in the fund. My fellow Members, when examining the Bill at first reading, I paid attention and was counting that there would be an addition to these texts, because the danger in electricity producers, in the company itself, that there would be no funds for salaries, honourable Members, is very real, observing what is happening in the sector at this time. We, as MPs, are obliged to think of the people who work in the sector, those who are facing the threat of not getting their wages. Therefore, I propose to make an editorial change, addition to art. 36, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u83	Which letter?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u84	In letter.................................................... 3 to be recorded: In the case of funds needed for the Fund, work salary and then continue: the money in the fund shall be deposited up to the 15th number. I repeat, in order for you to be able to write it down, Madam President: in the case of funds needed for the Fund, you will be able to save it. Thus, we make sure that workers are guaranteed to receive their remuneration within the month, not funds accumulated in the company, at the expense of their salaries. You understand the importance of the Bulgarian citizens who sent us here as lawmakers to be protected and guaranteed with this right of remuneration for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u85	Mr. Iankov, I've recorded the proposal. Any lines to Mr. Iankov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! Before going to the vote, I listened carefully to all the colleagues who spoke, and I will start again with Mr. Chavdar Georgiev because he had a proposal on the substance. Mr. Georgiev, with regard to your proposal, if you sign in. 3, should also be written in point 3. 5. I'm asking you as a lawyer to look at art. 35, para. 6, because there in the existing and current law these payments are settled. The matter is settled about what the revenues from carbon emission allowances can be spent on, statistical transfers. To repeat this text in the Fund again would be pointless, I think. Consider him a lawyer. If you don't withdraw it, at least add it to the list. 5 so that the texts in art. 35 and 36 to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u87	I'm adding it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u88	Add it to art. 35, p. 5. Then you will state it here, from the stands. Regarding the other proposals of colleague Veselinov. My concern with the differentiated contribution is that such an approach has been tried before, but has been challenged in court and has fallen, including in the Constitutional Court. You know, there was a 20% fee, a down payment, a differential rate in time, but any such idea was doomed to failure. With regard to the taxation of exports and especially the taxation of transit, this is not permitted under European directives and rules. If we write it as you suggest, it is likely to launch a criminal procedure against Bulgaria. With regard to the 50 percent of dividends paid by BEH to enter the Fund, this is a good idea, but we cannot realise it at this stage because it is related to the Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which has already been voted on. It requires 70% of the dividend, of the profits of all state-owned companies, not only those in the energy sector, to enter the state budget. At a future stage, if you insist, let us discuss this idea again and see how it can be implemented, because the approach must be the same not only to companies in energy, but also to other companies. With regard to green certificates, there is once again a good idea, but there is no legal basis for these green certificates. They don't exist in legal peace. However, this is not a very big problem, since there is no demand for green certificates, there is no one to buy them, even if they had them. The colleague Tasco Ermenkov offers a contribution of 4% of all on an extended basis to the persons who will be subject to this contribution. At least that's not a differentiated approach. The problem in the initial proposal that you have modified here, from the stands, is that the revenues that are expected to come from a 5% contribution are 211 million. From these, we need to remove 52 million of the so-called U.S. power stations and the net revenue at the moment with the Commission's proposal will be 159 million. Of the 4% contribution under equal other conditions, if the funds paid by transmission and distribution operators are being paid for because it was your initial idea, then these 159 million net with a 4-percent contribution will become 127,2 million, as we must again subtract 59 million from these 168,8 million, which we will collect from the contribution net after the revenue from transmission and distribution operators returns. With regard to your other idea: those with a lower rate of return - 4% - be subject to 1% without being reimbursed the contributions paid or recognized to them for spending by the regulator - then we will come to the hypothesis that we are once again developing a discriminatory approach to one and the other. For one, it will be 4 or 5%, and for the other, it will be 1%, that is, we are afraid that we can be attacked again along this line. With regard to the proposal of colleague Krasimir Yankov, in the case of funds in the Fund, only then should the contribution be paid, if we write such a text, should we record it for everything else for corporate tax, for VAT,... [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] See, the enterprise can decide whether to pay salaries or to contribute this contribution to the Fund. It's always in the enterprise's discretion. It's really about the lyrics in art. 36. I'm glad you had a constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u89	- What's the line? Mr. Georgiev, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! I think there's a reason for what my colleague Dobrev said. Really my supplement I made for art. 36d, para. 1, t. 2, to be considered as being also made for t. 5 in the same way. I gave it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u91	There's no way to consider one another. Precise your texts in writing! See what sheets are worn with editorial supplements from your parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u92	Okay, I don't want to piss you off, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u93	One is to consider the other. Are we magicians to know what point you're referring to?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u94	Okay, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u95	You can't give it to me. You spoke and made your statement. Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u96	Okay, then I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u97	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, there are no concerns, if there are businesses with up to 4% rate of return, to reduce them to 1%, not for anything else, but because it is normal commercial practice and no one will accuse us of placing them in a privileged position. In this regard, I ask once again, Members: with my proposal, more money is received in the Fund and the objective is better achieved with greater distribution and more solidarity. I therefore ask you: reconsider how you will vote when the time comes for the editorial proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u98	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Since I no longer have the opportunity to speak on the texts, my line is as follows. She may not be right for Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, I think we've gone a little deeper than we need to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u100	If you don't have a line to Dobrev, then you don't have a line at all and by this procedure you have no basis on the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u101	No, I meant that I would rather supplement Mr. Dobrev because he forgot to mention that the most important part of this proposal is the creation of this Fund, and not only because there is a liquidity problem in the entire energy system, but because Bulgaria is about to enter a liberalised electricity market, which is expected for a long time. In the end, the Fund will have the task of making this transition from regulated to free market as smoothly as possible so that there is no breakdown in the system and there is no shortage of funds in the entire system. That's my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u102	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u103	Thank Mr. Nenkov for the line. It will come out as if we're overreacting, but the topic he raised at the moment is very nice, because the creation of this fund is extremely important and it is good that we are doing it now to try how this model will work with some of the revenue that should be entered into the fund in the future in the liberalisation of the market. Because the real, large amount of revenue that should be entered into this fund in the liberalisation of the market is the sum of the revenues, which are currently going to the National Electricity Company, as it is the figure of a public supplier. In a liberalised market, however, the National Electricity Company will not be a public supplier and will not collect these revenues from public liabilities. They will meet in the same fund and will pay off all producers who, because of one or another law, because of one or another requirement of European directives and regulations, have preferential prices. That is, everyone will sell on the free market, and the difference between preferential prices and what they received when selling energy on a free market will be compensated by the same fund. I thank Mr. Nenkov for reminding me to mention that the debate on the substance of the proposals in art. 36 does not only concern a deficit block, an increase in revenues in state energy in view of the regulator's decision of 1 August, but also a much bigger topic related to the liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u104	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u105	You've made your point. You're asking for a procedure. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I think that all the political forces have taken part in this paragraph, and I have the feeling that the over-congratulation of what we have written gives rise to other feelings. We're gonna start looking for flaws, and we're gonna start looking for flaws right now. So I'm going to ask Mr. Dobrev and Mr. Nenkov not to transfer the ball. Imagine that the Constitutional Court remembered that there was something wrong...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u107	What's your procedure, Mr. Atalay?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u108	Let's end the debate on this paragraph so we can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u109	A reverse opinion? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Nedev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 123 MPs: 10, against 50, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. The next offer, which is not supported, has been withdrawn. It is about the proposal of Mr. Atali, Mustafa Ahmed, Ahmed Ahmedov and Jayhan Ibryamov. There is a proposal from colleagues Iskren Veselinov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Milen Mihov. The Commission does not support this proposal. We are voting on the unsupported proposal from the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 19 against 35, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Krasimir Yankov, Chavdar Georgiev and Georgi Turnovalyski in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 23, against 64, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are moving on to editorial amendments and additions to the text proposed by the Commission in plenary. The first in systematic place is Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal in art. 36d, para. 1, t. 2 after the text the income received from the auctions for the sale of allowances under art. 57, para. 1 of the Climate Change Restriction Act to add the following content: which are used for RES development. Isn't that right, Mr. Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u111	And that's multiplying by c. 5 in the sentence. "The revenues from statistical transfers of energy from renewable sources used for the development of renewable energy. Anblok, I am voting on the supplement to the text I have read in this section. 2 et c. 5 in para. 1 of art. 36e. We vote. Vote 127 MPs: 111 against 7, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We will now vote on Mr. Ermenkov's proposal, which he proposes in art. 36f, para. 1 in the fund at the amount of 5 per cent make the numbering of item no longer available here. 1 et c. 2 and continue the text in a whole sentence: "The producers of electricity and authorised persons operating in the electricity sector from their monthly revenues from electricity transactions, except for export transactions. The debtors under the previous sentence, where a rate of return of up to 4% is fixed, make a contribution to the fund of one per cent. Two down. Isn't that right, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u112	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u113	I'm voting on Mr. Ermenkov's proposal. They voted 129 MPs: 27, against 60, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. The editorial proposal of Mr. Iankov remains, which he proposes in the same article. 36f, para. 3 which is currently in the Commission's report: the contributions to the Fund shall be paid up to the 15th of the month following the month to which they relate, before the contributions to the Fund shall be recorded: the amount needed for the Fund shall be paid up to the 15th of the month following the month to which they relate. We vote on Mr. Yankov's proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 21, against 70, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 7 in its version on the Commission report, together with Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's adopted proposal for an addition to art. 36d, para. 1, t. 2. They voted 127 MPs: 106, none against, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u114	Proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The motion has been withdrawn. Paragraph 6 - The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes to reject it, as it is reflected in a new § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u115	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer, which has partially found a reflection in § 9 but is not quite identical, which is why we need to vote on it. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission! They voted 122 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u116	Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Assoc. Milen Mihov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in a new § 8. Proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The public supplier shall purchase electricity from power generators connected to the transmission network under contracts for the long-term purchase of availability and electricity, as well as determined availabilitys and quantities of energy in accordance with art. 21, para. 1, t. 21 et seq. 21a produced from renewable sources, from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat and the amount of electricity determined in accordance with art. 4, para. 2, p. 8..................................................... 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The public supplier shall purchase the quantities of electricity determined in accordance with art. 21, para. 1, t. 21 and 21a, in order to ensure the consumption of final suppliers. 3. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: The public supplier shall bind the quantities under para. 2 for each day, taking into account the forecasts of final suppliers. (5) In the event of the inability to bind the hourly purchases for each day with the sales to the final suppliers, the public supplier shall adjust the submitted schedules by the producers in accordance with art. 93a and the schedules aggregated by final suppliers under Art. 93a. 94 within the limits of the defined under art. 21, para. 1, t. 21 and 21 months. The quantities thus determined are mandatory for purchase by the public supplier. (6) The relations referred to in the preceding paragraphs shall be governed by the rules laid down in art. Reg. 91, para. 2. Proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new §... is being created: ............................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: 1 with an obligation to the public supplier. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u117	That's it. There are proposals for new paragraphs that are not supported. We'll have a debate if there are any willing ones, and we'll vote them out. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take a stand? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov. [[Reply from rapporteur Delyan Dobrev.]] If so, report it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u118	The unsupported proposals relate to § 8, which the Commission proposes to establish: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence shall be created: The final suppliers shall certify the quantities of electricity purchased by each manufacturer with a measurement and invoice protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u119	You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first part of the proposal has reason to be rejected as the original text of point was rejected. 21 and 21a, but the second I insist on receiving support from you, as these intercepts represent a way in which the ERPs, which are a mediator between the RES and the Payer, the actual final buyer of energy, the National Electricity Company, have the opportunity to make their attractive and real funds, live money, so to speak, do not reach NEK at all. If we leave the existing text, so far the existing possibility of capping due amounts, we would not, in fact, ease the situation of NEK. While, if all amounts due from the RES are required, respectively, due amounts from the ERPs to the NEK, to go in without the interceptor, then the NEK will have fresh money. That's the point. When an economic entity has real money, it has the freedom to make the reverse payments, as well as the right to agree to admit intercepts, but only with his consent. This text aims to enable the cash amounts to occur directly in NEK and not to carry out the catcher. In conclusion, I can say that some of these intercepts are absolutely unfounded, in violation of the Law, but this is found much later and sometimes not established. That's the point of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u121	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal to create a new paragraph to make changes to art. 93a. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 18, against 24, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal for a change in art. 94, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: 22, Against 14, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 8 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u122	A proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov is created a new paragraph: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 97, para. 1, t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." producers and transmission network operator between producers and distribution grid operators, respectively, for electricity needed to compensate for the technological transmission costs, by allocation. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... A new article shall be Art. 98. (1) The Treaties under art. 97, para. 1, t. Two are public. (2) Within 14 days of the conclusion of the contracts under para. 1 The parties shall make them available to the Commission. The Treaties, together with all amendments and additions, whatever the name, shall be made public on the Commission's website within 7 days of their receipt. (3) In the contracts, the information representing commercial secrecy as well as the information which is protected by law shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u123	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Madam Minister, in this paragraph, a large part of the proposal that we have made with colleagues from the Reformation bloc in terms of the publicity of energy contracts; the publicity of contracts buying energy from producers at regulated prices. We believe that this is something that society has long expected to know, and this is the mechanism to become public to sign it in the Law. We rely on support from all the parliamentary groups, as earlier in the debate were mentioned again by the US power plants, I do not know which plants. Obviously there is a problem with transparency and this is the way to really understand who has ever signed what, who has amended what anexes, changed what we have heard here, including special bets on energy assets has established. Let people really know who is responsible for the state of energy at the moment. Much of this responsibility will be seen in the contracts for the purchase of energy of regulated, at preferential prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u125	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. The motion has been withdrawn. We are voting § 9 in its version on the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u126	Paragraph 7? a proposal from the MPs Kiril Tsochev, Miho Mihov and Lachezar Nikiforov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Nedev, Hristo Todorov, Chavdar Peychev and Rumen Yonchev in § 7, item. 4 concerning para. Five down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Mustafa Ahmed, Ahmed Ahmedov and Jayhan Ibryamov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word the producers shall be added, including the producers of energy from renewable sources, for the quantities referred to in Article 1. 31, par. 5, p. 2 of the Renewable Energy Act. 2. In para. 2 after the words............................................................................................ 93a, para. Article 2 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: All end customers connected to the electricity system, including the transmission network operator and distribution grid operators, shall pay the costs under art. 34 and 35. 4. In para. 4 after the word "Secretary".. including the transmission network operator and distribution network operators................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. The creation of para. 5. The public supplier may purchase electricity at freely agreed prices in order to ensure the consumption of final suppliers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u127	Statements? Here you go, Mr Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u128	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We offer the newly created para. 5 to be dropped for the following reasons. The creation of this paragraph is contrary to art. 40, para. 6 of the Energy Act, which states that in cases where the same person carries out more than one of the activities and so on different licences for the different types of activities are issued to him. In this case, NEK is a public supplier and as a public provider of the public interest service buys and sells electricity at a regulated price or price under contractual terms. This price is determined according to the KEWRC methodology. Trade in freely negotiated prices is not subject to price regulation and does not constitute a public interest service such as the licence of the public supplier. If we vote on this new paragraph, we will also allow, by law, the public supplier, who has a licence issued for a certain type of public activity, to be given the opportunity to trade in electricity, which in its own sense is quite different and goes to the license that NEK has, but now as an electricity trader. So the public supplier can't be a trader. Those are our motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u129	Second line? I won't. Could you use a hole, Mr Nedev? No. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u130	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, Minister, honourable Members, that the Commission has agreed to reject this. 5 or the so-called 'new' para. It is a good thing because, in my opinion, it is pointless also in relation to further members who have voted in this Law, and especially when we get to what way and at what cost the surplus will be bought out, i.e. from overproduction from renewable energy sources. Once they have accepted here because we will have an objection to this thing, this price at which to buy this overproduction will be at an excess price, that is, times less than the free market price or the freely agreed price, it is natural that the public supplier, even if he has the right to buy at free prices, will never benefit from this right at all, but we are simply introducing a text that could only trip this activity and introduce a violation of the Law with regard to the licences and confusion of the responsibilities of the National Electricity Company (NEK) as a trader and as a public supplier. In this regard, we will also support the dropping of para. 5. Once again, I say that it is good to think, after all, in the direction of a liberalised market. With regard to surplus, I will take a separate attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u131	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Nedev, Todorov, Peychev and Yonchev, which is not supported by the Commission. The proposal is § 7, t. 4 concerning para. Five o'clock to drop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u132	Yeah, but it's not t. 4. Paragraph 7 is no longer a t. 4. Procedure, if I may, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u133	Cancel the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u134	The colleague's proposal, which the Commission has not supported, is essentially what he has done as a procedural correction of the Commission's version. The Legal Directorate tells me that it is more right to accept this proposal - unsupported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u135	Let's vote it as an editorial proposal in § 10?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u136	Eventually, once it's accepted, it's going to drop t. 5 automatically from the Commission's version.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u137	If it's accepted after a vote. I put to the vote the editorial proposal which Mr Nedev made from the platform in plenary, which is identical with the proposal on the report, but is not supported by the Commission. We are now hearing a change in the opinion of the President of the Commission for dropping out of para. 5 t. 5 of art. 100. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting for the full version of § 10 without the drop-out item. 5 for the creation of para. Five that just dropped out. We are voting § 10 on the report. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u138	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov: screated §...: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. The 8th sentence of the third sentence is amended as follows: In the case of use without agreement, the owner shall be entitled to compensation, including legal interest for delay, determined on the basis of the methodology adopted by the Commission. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u139	Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u140	Madam President, dear Minister, I stand on the stand, not only to present my proposal, but to seek your support, honourable Members of the National Assembly, and possibly to hear your opinion, Dear Minister. This article. 117, para. 8 regulates extremely important public relations. These are the cases where technical capacity and spare capacity are available and, in such cases, the owners of electrical installations and equipment provide the use of this capacity to the transmission network operators and, respectively, the distribution network operators for the purpose of converting and transferring electricity to other customers. That sentence, I think, is without alternative. It is in the public interest and satisfies the public good. The second sentence: The use shall be granted after the conclusion of a contract at a price determined by a methodology approved by the Commission. That sentence practically doesn't work. No contracts are signed, no price is paid, just these facilities are mostly used as a welded position. In the absence of agreement, the Commission shall order that the use and payment be made available at a price determined by the Commission on the basis of the methodology. What does this last sentence mean, and what is the practice? Those who use free do not complain. The one who complains to pay him a price because the Law does not set a deadline for the Commission to answer, it in almost all cases benefits from its right to a silent answer and you cannot go to court to complain because the court tells you that there is no text and the Commission must determine it. This is an injustice and I propose that the last non-working sentence be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u141	Working.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u142	Eventually, mate. In the case of use without consent, the owner shall be entitled to compensation, including legal interest for delay, determined on the basis of the methodology adopted by the Commission. Dear Members of Parliament, this text will not only restore one justice, but will hinder a number of other multiplying negative consequences for the country's energy system and for the interests of Bulgarian society. For example, is it of interest for those who use foreign property without paying to modernise those facilities which, due to depreciation, lead to major technical losses? First of all, there's no interest in it because it doesn't pay. Secondly, there is no interest because technical losses are recognized to him. As the President of the Commission said here a little while ago on another occasion, as are the losses, such amount of energy buys from the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" at a price of 30 BGN. Therefore, the greater the losses, the greater the amount of energy it buys from the state nuclear power plant and it wins. Thirdly, with the Law, those who use foreign obligations were obliged to redeem them within eight years. The deadline expired, they did not buy them and we, the MPs, representatives of the Bulgarian people and consumers, extended the period to 12 years. And they didn't buy them out again. However, they bet before the SEWRC capital expenditure that they would buy out these facilities and modernise them. Bulgarian consumers paid the price and the facilities are not modernized. I ask you to support this proposal of mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u143	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Valeri Simeonov, but this will happen after the break. Colleagues, extraordinary Chairmanial Council at 11.30 for the participants in it. And one message: on the occasion of the 155th anniversary of Gabrovo's announcement of a city in the Club of the National Representative will be opened the exhibition "Painting and Caricature." It presents picturesque paintings and cartoons that come to life in proverbial Gabrovo humor. The exhibition presents works by the honorary citizen of Gabrovo Boris Dimovski. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Holiday till 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u144	Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u145	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. The statement of Mr. Bojinov and his proposal concerns a very long saga. As Mr. Bozhinov himself said, in the last nine, even twelve years, this issue has been postponed and the reason why it has been postponed is mainly because the regulator limits the costs of electricity distribution companies for investments and buying this type of facility. On the other hand, these costs, especially in the period 2007 - 2009, in the construction boom, had to be increased repeatedly to catch up on the pace of construction of new facilities, as the funds in the investment programmes of the electricity distribution companies were not sufficient to cover the investment made in the private sector. We still have a number of cases where facilities are used that are not bought. There is a methodology in the KEWR to calculate the costs and to pay for the facility and the use of the facility. Mr. Bozhinov's proposal changes in some sense the existing Law because he says that such a facility, first of all, can also be used without the consent of the owner and, second of all, if it is used without the consent of the owner, then, after a time, since these facilities are already being used, compensation must be fixed, including legal interest for late purchase of the facility. Our concern, we have expressed this position and the Commission, is that the compensation and these interest rates for late payment will accumulate additional costs which the regulator must provide for when determining the amount of investments of the electricity distribution companies. These additional costs cannot have an effect on the price of electricity. It's really a matter of some importance. This approach, which Mr. Bojinov proposes, is serious. In my opinion, we need some time to assess what the financial effect of this proposal will be, how many are the cases of unbought facilities, what the total amount is talking about at $150 million, and perhaps a larger amount of the facilities that are not purchased at this stage, what the amount of the benefits and the amount of the legal interest will be on this entire amount for the period in which it was due to see how this will be loaded, in the simplest terms. From this point of view, the Commission did not support the proposal. This does not mean that it is not a resonant proposal. It just takes a little time to assess the financial effect. After the break of the National Assembly in September, October, there are new changes to the Energy Act, which will be related to the liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria and we will be able to make a sober assessment and assessment of the financial effect of these proposals by then. I suggest we leave these texts for the next bill so we can be more prepared on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u146	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u147	Dear President, I am partially satisfied with what the President of the Commission has said. He appreciates as valid my motives and says that at a more appropriate time a more radical solution will be sought. I would like to respond with specific figures at three points of your speech. The regulator limited the ERP's requests for investments, including the purchase of facilities. The audit report on the activities of the ERP shows the following: only for the one ERP, CEZ, in the five years they have saved, notice, colleagues, 184 million. What did they save it on? From the fact that they said they would make costs for the network, they entered the price of electricity and the Bulgarian consumer paid them, and they did not spend them and saved them. Open the CEZ audit report, p. 83, 13 row below.. 184 million! Second, for the new ones and for the construction boom. But how does it work? You build, you join and you consume, you build a trappost with your money, you say in the ERP that power, it states it in the regulator, the regulator puts it in the price and the people start paying it, but you spent it. He's been hanging out with you for two years, and then he's paying you for it. Corporate interest is clearly defined, systematically pursued, secured, if you will, to say it, and financially to be achieved. And the interest of this people is represented by us ministers, MPs and regulator, only there is no balance of the reasons for finding the measure and therefore everything is in the interest of the corporate, the group, against the national interest. So I ask you, after all, this is a small breakthrough, let's support it, and the other things will develop them systematically later.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u148	Second line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Bojinov. I'm asking the Quaestors to go round the rooms after all! 88 MPs voted: 25, against 12, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see people keep coming in. Apparently, not everyone was able to vote. And since I stood here, it's not just about that. Please understand, however, that this is about someone trying to use someone else's property without paying for it. Not only does he use someone else's property without paying it, he's already charged it to us in the prices we pay for electricity. So let's introduce some legality anyway. Let those who try to steal, steal less and we hit them through the fingers. That's why I'm asking for a re-vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u150	It's a rethink of the proposal. Vote regime for the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 34 against 15, 50 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u151	Proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 the following amendments are made: 1. in para. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "monthly certificate'; 2. in para. 4 the word "Sertifications' is replaced by "Sertifications'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u152	Statements? I won't. We are voting, fellow Members, for the Commission's proposal to create a new § 11. Vote 96 MPs: 92, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u153	Proposal from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev: A new § 7a is being created: 7a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second paragraph is replaced The punishments referred to in paragraph 3 shall be as follows: 1 and 2 shall also be imposed on officials who allow for the cancellation or incorrect announcement of the circumstances defined by the Decree of § 14 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u154	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was surprised that the Commission had not supported this proposal, as it is bound by our request for transparency. The idea of this proposal is, in fact, to have sanctions for the directors of state-owned enterprises which do not announce their representative costs, which are determined, of course, by the Council of Ministers' Ordinance. So I don't see why not support such a sanction. You know that at the moment, the issue of costs that we are trying to optimize as a whole in the sector is very important. I think that such a penalty is appropriate and should be imposed on the directors of state-owned enterprises if they do not declare their representative costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here's a line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! It's about state-owned enterprises. It is about transparency that they must do and send the contracts accordingly. The minister is the principal of them. So in their company contracts, which sign for management, writes clearly and specifically what obligations they have, namely to first implement the Law, secondly, the provisions of their principle. So they, in reality, if they do not comply with this provision, will in any case have sanctions for them. On top of that, the penalty is legally defined anyway, it cannot be large. So from this point of view, we rejected it because it is within the powers of the Minister to be able to impose sanctions on the executives concerned if they do not comply with the will in the spirit of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u158	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Nikolov, you said: "In any case." In any case, it will be if it enters the Law. And what will enter into the contract between the principal, the minister and these commercial directors, that no one can know. The sanctions may not have been implemented, may have been avoided in some way, but if we want it to be I therefore hope, fellow Members, that you will support this proposal. I do not see anything worrying about it and this will confirm our request for transparency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u161	Mr. Ananiev, don't misunderstand us, we're not against your proposal. However, there are several problems. On the one hand, this proposal refers to the ZID, in fact, to the Bill that we are currently changing. So there's no way he's gonna be ZID now that we're done with him. And, in this form, from a purely legal point of view, lawyers have objected to accepting it that way. On the other hand, hesitation has been created as to who the officials are, and they do not reveal whether they are the executive director of the particular trading company or the administration below it. The sanctions to which you refer, as I recall, have been debated in the Commission. Now we can't find the exact term, but it was between 10 and 50,000. lv. for the non-disclosure of this kind of information. So we don't mind accepting a more precise version, but, unfortunately, it seems to me that we won't be able to do this in today's session. That's why we're not against it, but given the circumstances, there's no way we can support it. My colleague Nikolov is right when he says that in the end, if we are looking for responsibility from the Executive Director, the one who failed to comply with the Ordinance and tried to conceal some facts and circumstances, there is no point in fineing him, but we should seek more serious responsibility for him, such as replacing him with someone who will carry out the orders of the cabinet and of the Minister in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u162	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A line to Mr. Dobrev? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: 13 against 4, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dobrev, paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u163	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. A t is created. 27f: It's 27. "Combined group of business participants' is a group of business participants outside those licensed companies under art. 39, para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 7, the manufacturers of art. 162 and producers under the Renewable Energy Act to which the general conditions for balancing apply under the rules of art. Reg. 91, para. 2. 2. point 54a is amended as follows: It's 54a. The special group is a group formed by licensed companies under art. 39, para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 7 and manufacturers under art. 93a, para. 1 and 94a, para. 3 to which the balancing conditions in accordance with the rules under Article 3 apply. Reg. 91, para. 2. 3. Point 59b is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. "Standart group' is a group of commercial participants, outside of those licensed companies under art. 39, para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 7, to which the general conditions of balancing apply according to the rules of art. Reg. 91, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u164	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 8, which becomes § 12, on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u165	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u166	We are voting on the text of the name of the division. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u167	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Within 14 days of the entry into force of this law, the contracts under art. 97, para. 1, t. 2 concluded by the entry into force of this Act, together with all amendments and additions, shall be forwarded to the Commission by the Parties. The Commission shall publish the contracts within 7 days of receipt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u168	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 which becomes § 13 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u170	Statements, coworkers? I won't. We are voting § 10, which becomes § 14 in the version of the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u171	§ 11. Proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 2 and supports it in general in terms of t. 3 and 4: In § 11: 1. New t. is being created. 1 and 2: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 18 is The incentive under para. 1, t. 2 for the energy objects under art. 24, p. 3 with a combined cycle and indirect use of biomass of which the total weight of manure is not less than 60 per cent shall apply only if the manufacturer of electricity from renewable sources demonstrates that he has registered an establishment within the meaning of the Veterinary Activity Act at least three years before the date of submission of the application for accession and holds a certain number of registered animals, as well as birds, from the manure of which 1 kWh electricity is produced per day, as follows: 1. bovines, buffaloes, 1 issue; 2. calves and heifers for fattening 3. calves up to 6 months 4. pigs suppose 5 pieces; 5. ewes.. 10 pieces; 6. birds.. 300 pieces.......................... 300 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." with combined cycle and indirect use of biomass which is intended to be built in urbanised areas, agricultural sites or production areas and which have installed electrical power up to: (a) 1,5 MW and use biomass of which the total weight of manure is not less than 60 per cent, subject to the requirements of art. 18, para. 7 and for which installed power shall be demonstrated according to the ordinance under art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act; (b) 500 kW and use biomass of vegetable waste from own agricultural production. 2. Point 1 becomes t. 2 and in it in para. 5 is created t. 4. "4." Commercial (TPS) schedules of balancing groups with members of producers of electricity from renewable sources may be changed only in accordance with art. 73 of the Energy Act. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, the Commission does not support the proposal: In § 11: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments shall be made: (a) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The public supplier shall, respectively, purchase the electricity produced from renewable sources under the following conditions: 1. at a preferential price, for the quantities of electricity up to the amount of the individual monthly astronomical hours specified in a KEWR decision for each manufacturer, according to the power of the power plant of the authorisation for placing in service; 2. the manufacturer sells the quantities of electricity beyond those under point 2. 1 of the public supplier or final supplier at a price declared at the end of the previous month by the public supplier or on the free or balancing market. (b) a new Paragraph 6 shall be created: In case of failure to bind hourly purchases for each day to sales to final suppliers in accordance with art. 93, para. 3 of the Energy Act, the public supplier adjusts the submitted schedules by the producers, including the aggregated timetable of the producers with the Coordinator KS within the individual monthly quantities determined by the KEWRC. The quantities thus determined are mandatory for producers. (c) a new para shall be created. 8. The relationship under para. 6 shall be governed by the rules laid down in Article 6. Reg. 91, para. 2 of the Energy Act. 2. In § 1 t. 3 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Kiril Tsochev, Miho Mihov, Lachezar Nikiforov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. One, and the rest of it is withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 concerning Art. 32a in para. 1 after the words Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev: In §11 t. 4 to be absorbed. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atali, Mustafa Ahmed, Ahmed Ahmedov and Jayhan Ibryamov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 11: 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 26 is created. 6 and 7: supplies to research applications and how to join the relevant electricity network operator of the sites under art. 24, p. 3 except as provided for in Article 3. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act, must be accompanied by a notary certified contract for the purchase of manure by a registered farmer and a declaration of the type and number of registered animals kept by him. (7) The operators of the transmission or distribution networks shall carry out checks in the relevant registers on the existence and due registration of the farmer, including the number and type of animals kept and registered by him. Where a duplication is established between farmers, the type and number of animals kept by them, the applicant for accession shall not be issued an opinion on accession until proof of another possibility to provide animal manure by the applicant concerned. 2. Point 1 becomes t. 2 and in it in art. 31, para. 5. (a) c. 1 after the words..................................................................................... 24, p. The following shall be added: the following points are (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." in prices realised for the previous month on the free market, according to art. 100 of the Energy Act, for quantities exceeding the production under point (c) the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (c) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the quantities per item. 1 and 2 shall be reduced by the quantities used by producers for the supply of their branches, undertakings and sites. 3. A new t. is created. 3: "3." Article 3 is replaced by the following: 31a: Art. 31a. (1) Producers of electricity from renewable sources and highly efficient cogeneration of heat and electricity which sell electricity produced at preferential prices and by the indications of the means of commercial measurement shall be entitled to participate in standard balancing groups for the quantities of electricity produced which is not purchased on the regulated market by the public supplier, respectively the final suppliers under art. 31, para. 5, t. 1 et c. 2. (2) Producers of electricity from renewable sources shall be entitled to register as commercial actors on the electricity market and/or on the balancing energy market. (3) Manufacturers of electricity from renewable sources shall be entitled to change their belonging to a balancing group from a special/combined group to a standard and from a standard to a special/combined group. 4. Point 2 becomes t. 4 and in it: (a) in para. 2 after the words "electric power', the sites of which are built entirely or partly by means of national and/or European support schemes; (b) in para. 3 A compliance with the criteria and time limits of the regulations under art. 36, para. 3 of the Energy Act and shall enter into force from the date of adoption. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3, which becomes t. 5 concerning § 1 the text of point 29 is amended as follows: It's 29. Net specific production of electricity is the production of electricity, which is defined as the average annual duration of work for the buying-in period under art. 31, para. 2 according to the Commission decision on energy and water regulation to determine the price of the specific type of producer, after deduction of the own needs and the adjustment of the power guaranteed by the plant manufacturers for the period of operation multiplied by the installed capacity. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Krasimir Yankov, Chavdar Georgiev, Georgi Turnovalyski. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 letters......................................................................................................... In § 11: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words "net specific production' shall be replaced by the average annual work duration assumed, and the words "in the relevant decisions of' shall be replaced by "from'; (b) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the average free market price for the month preceding the month of the transaction provided by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for quantities exceeding the production of item 1; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall set an individual preferential price for producers of electricity from renewable sources for which a significant deviation from the rate of return accepted by the Commission has been found. Deviation is essential when more than 2 per cent differ; (b) in para. 2 the word "Excess" shall be replaced by "Instruction" and, finally, it shall be added to take account of the effect of the contributions to the Fund. (c) in para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the date of entry into force of the relevant individual price decision. (d) in para. 5 the words "the date referred to in the Commission decision on energy and water regulation' shall be replaced by the date of entry into force of the relevant decision on the determination of an individual price'; (g) paragraph 11 shall become para. 9 such as the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 concerning § 1 t. 29 to be reported. Proposal from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The public supplier shall, respectively, purchase the electricity produced from renewable sources under the following conditions: 1. at a preferential price, for the quantities of electricity up to the amount of net specific production of electricity, on the basis of which preferential prices have been set in the relevant decisions of the KEWRC; for the sites under art. 24, p. 3 the determined net specific production of electricity does not apply; 2. at a price for surplus on the balancing market, for quantities exceeding the production under point 2. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) the creation of para. 12: The amount of electricity exceeding the amount of electricity referred to in paragraph 1 shall not exceed the amount of electricity required to be used for the purposes of this paragraph. 5, t. 1 producers may use to supply their branches, enterprises and establishments or to sell at freely negotiated prices under Chapter 9a, Section VII of the Energy Act and/or on the balancing market. 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 29: It's 29. The net specific production of electricity is the annual average electricity production of 1 kW installed capacity according to the KEWR's decision to determine preferential prices after deduction of own needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u172	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I'm opening the debate under § 11. I would like to remind you of those who have missed: 23 of the Bill until p. 30. You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We have a very important decision to make here. You will hear various arguments, after which the House must decide which direction to vote and which arguments have more weight. The most important thing that we do with these changes in the Energy Act is we are making experience, and it is the most serious experience that has ever been done to solve the NEK deficit problem. This fund, which we are creating, which contains 5% of the electricity producers' revenues, will collect, according to forecast data, 211 million. lv. The effect of it. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, lv. in the fund, which will reduce the deficit of the National Electricity Company. In § 11 there are proposals, they are a few who say so yes, for new RES there are no preferential prices, but there are two exceptions. One is these photovoltaics up to 30 kilos, that is, the tiny ones that any normal person can install on the roof of the building. By the way, there is not much interest in this topic, but this is a topic for another debate. The second question remains the RES, which work on the biomass principle, and over 60% should be animal manure. Our concern is this. You'll hear arguments in the opposite direction. One of the three ERPs of EVN, said they were preparing for such projects or had intentions, is the right word for such projects over 60 megawatts or 189 million. lv. I specifically asked the other two ERPs: is there any intention of such projects, but I did not receive an answer. Nobody got an answer. So what's bothering us is this. I understand that there are investors who have already invested their money in such projects. I've been getting calls, too, guys. I understand them, I understand their logic, but I'm telling you what's bothering me. What's the point of raising 211 million? lv. in this fund and open the door for 200 million? tells me one company, or maybe it's for more, which we then have to decide with the next amendment to the Energy Act? That is, we are not forced to make the next fund tomorrow if there is another 200 million deficit, which in just six months we will have to solve as a problem. And the new 200 million, what are we gonna pay it with? Again, I understand the logic of investors. I've been getting calls from people who have already invested in this technology. They said: "In March, by amending the Law in Parliament, you left this opportunity. When we left it, however, colleagues, no one thought that it was possible that so many objects with total power 60 and more megawatts could prepare and be realized in this area. They were talking about 5, 10, 15 megawatts. That was the information. Now we have a letter from EVN, which, by the way, fellow MPs have challenged, which says the intention is for 60 and more megawatts. It's only 189 million. BGN, as it became clear, more expenditure. So, colleagues, I urge you to decide wisely. I have one request to you if today in plenary you decide with any arguments to open this door to such biomass projects, with more than 60% animal manure, those people who today make this decision, tomorrow to tell how we will solve the problem of the new deficit. We're running out of time. For me, the NEK deficit issue is largely resolved, everything we have done is resolved, and if you decide to leave this door open, I urge you tomorrow to tell us how we will solve the new deficit. The people who are voting for this today, please tomorrow we will draw them as a list, you tell us how the deficit issue should be resolved from here on out. And I ask you on this subject that we do not divide ourselves into opposition and government, but act as people who are responsible for the stability of Bulgarian energy, people who together try to solve the problems with the deficit of the National Electricity Company. I urge you to act responsibly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u174	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov, right on the fifth minute. First line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u175	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the point of ensuring the development of such projects is that they are environmentally friendly. There is no other legislation in the European Union that has introduced such restrictions on the development of renewable energy sources, there is no! And I'll give you a few details. A small Czech Republic has over 300 such installations! There's 5600 in Germany! Don't look at me! And all of this comes from the fact that our system is debalanced and we have developed some insane coal thermal plants, which, first of all, are ecological and polluting the atmosphere, second of all, we pay non-market prices to them, you know which thermal plants I'm talking about. They are the obstacle to the development of renewable sources, Mr. Dimitrov! It's the truth! No matter how many restrictions we make now, in two or three years we will cancel them, because the European Union is moving towards changing its energy sources, towards renewable and alternative sources. By 2030, we will have to have 30% of renewables. By 2050, Germany had set itself the goal of 70% of the energy from such sources! No matter how much you stop, so as not to become insane and not to see the apparent bankruptcy of these TPPs, no matter how you stop renewables, they are the future and progress.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u176	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take a reply in relation to the finding that we are talking about 60 megawatts, which these plants will therefore accumulate, on the basis of your information provided during a discussion with the Commission. But you have to distinguish between what is offered, and it is offered for animal manure, which is not less than 60 percent. These are not more than 15 megawatts. Others who produce the relevant electricity from the processing or use of silage are not included in this hypothesis, which was proposed by Mr. Delyan Dobrev. In addition, you have premises.. they consume much of the electricity produced for the needs they need for the production process. Much more than that! One small part remains to be bought at preferential prices. Perhaps when you discuss these issues, it is important to make distinctions between what is being proposed and what you have understood during the discussion in the Commission and to have accurate information. So the proposal is very resonant and meets requirements that, unfortunately, we have not put them in our legislation in terms of protecting the environment and the commitments that farmers have in this area and cannot fulfil them for this reason.................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u178	Third line, Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u179	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. Dimitrov, in your speech you missed something that I think is also quite important when people decide how to vote in the Chamber. A really important issue is that each of us has to decide whether it opens a door for speculation or is it still some kind of incentive for livestock, because there is also this thing. Let's not look at things unilaterally on the price alone. Are we thus not helping both environmental and biological waste management, which is also our duty? You have missed something that I think you should mention and compare, because just about four or five months ago in this room, without thinking about it, we hit the small hydroelectric plugs, we hit them from one point to one half, and then at plants that produce less electricity than biomass, and at a much lower price! So I say that from now on, who will vote is his question, but let's think, by voting, to have conceptual thinking and some pattern that we follow, not to throw ourselves from one extreme to another, to change the Law, to expand, to change what we have changed again. So please very much, when you make such comparisons, remember the story we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u181	Dear colleagues, according to the corresponding lines of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev said the following thing: because it is ecological, we should practically be ready to raise the price of electricity because it is ultimately. I mean, I'm asking the people who vote for these texts tomorrow, when they have to raise the price of electricity by 5%, to be so good publicly to stand up and say, "Yes, we were defending these things. I, Chavdar Georgiev, here from the stand said that there should be these environmental standards and I stand behind the increase in the price of electricity. Mrs. Bachvarova also hopes to come here and say: "Yes, this is important, environmentally friendly and that is why you need to raise the price of electricity by 5%. " Okay, where's the money coming from? To cover these costs, money can come from an increase in the price of electricity. Otherwise I tell you again, I understand the argument that investments have already been made in this area. I understand that this is unpleasant for the people who have invested their money, but our main goal is to solve the problem of the National Electricity Company deficit. The system cannot continue to be debalanced in this way. From today's vote in plenary, this decision will be extremely important. Mr. Ermenkov's line has the following subtext. Why were the small hydropowers stopped even at preferential prices? And here we tend to open the door for biomass with at least 60% participation of manure, with a preferential price of about 450 leva, Mrs. Bachvarova. Colleagues, I hope that we will consider very carefully the vote and the people who decide to open this door, please take responsibility. For a reason, my colleague Ermenkov also raised the issue of the possibility of being controlled. If you open the door and tomorrow it turns out that 60, 70 or 100 megawatts have been built, you cannot escape with the explanation: Thus, people who now remain open must take full responsibility, including the establishment of enterprises which, by Mrs. Bachvarova's definition, do not fully meet the requirements for biomass and at least 60% animal manure, because the letter from EVN is not a flyer, it is to the Chairman of the Energy Commission and he presented it to all of us. In this letter they say that all these businesses are preparing to work on animal manure after all. Colleagues, after we saw the renewables boom... I'm not against RES in general. For me too, Mr. Georgiev, this is the future, only we need to rethink every move so that it doesn't come to an increase in the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] You've made a line, I understand. After you replicate, what personal explanation then? How can one who has a duplicate address you? There's no such procedural possibility. I can see that Mr. Zhelyo Boychev signed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! With great interest and attention, I follow this debate. We are currently making a summary of a number of proposals by colleagues in one paragraph. However, I remember the time when we had the opportunity as a political power to initiate changes to the Energy Act, and I think of the speeches of some of these right-wing, liberal economists, including my respected colleague Martin Dimitrov, who was speaking earlier, what they were saying. Now I'm reading their suggestions and objecting to a few of your plays. Firstly, you propose that we introduce a term "net specific production of electricity" and essentially replace the previous terminology in the Law, namely the average annual productivity of the plant. Moreover, Mr. Dimitrov, you do one degradation. You want to back-up, on your proposal, to recalculate the productivity of these capacities. This is essentially an extremely retroactive measure which I did not expect representatives like you to do. I remember when we made some or other proposals in the Energy Act, how we were accused of violating the investment environment, that we gave a bad signal to foreign investors, how we created an unstable and unstable system. With what you are doing, you are clearly violating the legal certainty of investments made so far. Regarding your speech, I was unable to relate to the proposal that we have made in writing to limit the possibility of using these investments and energy sites using a combined biomass cycle. In your speech you wanted to ban them and de facto you made a proposal with the gentlemen Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov to limit the use of these investments. In the Commission, we did not support this text, but our arguments were that we consider the settlement of this norm in the Law for failure and inappropriate, and we proposed that it be done in a separate regulation. Otherwise, we agree that this preference and opportunity must be made so as to be used only by farmers and to limit the possibility of being used for speculation and some or other objects in the process of investment to be reshaped as agricultural. One more thing, fellow Members. We have made several proposals and I would like to refer to one of them, because in the final text, which needs to be edited, it is envisaged for the purchased energy at preferential prices, the surplus over this quantity produced to be It is about page 30, the paragraph to be put to the vote. My request is that you take a look at the proposal that we have made with our colleagues and accept that the quantities above the prescribed buying-in hours at preferential prices become an average price on the free market for the month preceding the month of the transaction provided by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for quantities exceeding the production referred to in point 1. You have currently proposed that this amount, exceeding the set norm for hours, should go to the free market, which is currently a legal nonsense, as there is no free, liberalised market, and there is no mechanism for how to use it. Separately, under their contracts, producers of this type of energy have the possibility to choose... or to use preferential price and compulsory buying-in or to be on the free market. They can't make one choice or another. Then, if they do not go to the free market, you say that energy can be bought at a price for excess on the balanced market. First of all, that kind of price, colleagues, there isn't. This is a price for a service in a balanced market, there is no such type of price of energy. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My time's up. I believe that this is also an extremely inefficient norm which, by the way, changes one of the basic principles that we have used in legislation so far, namely the mandatory buying-in of this type of energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u184	Any lines to Mr. Boychev? I won't. To speak, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u185	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, my speech is related to the proposal that we have made with colleague Antony Trenchev, but before that I would like to call on all MPs to declare their conflicts of interest, as is under our Rules, because I have recently read in the media that hardly 140 MPs had connections and were related to the sector. I declare that I do not have such a conflict of interest or my family. I guess I'm from the other 80 or whatever, actually 100 to 240. The proposal we have made is actually to ease small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called small RESs, up to 200 kilos. Very often we use the term for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the economy, but in fact, unfortunately, it is not very important in this and with our actions we do not prove that we intend to support small and medium-sized businesses. With the proposal that we have made, we want to do exactly this to lighten these RESs up to 200 kilos, talking about 228 companies, and about 22 megawatts as a whole, which does not in any way cause any damage and does not affect the sector itself. Most of these companies have complied with the legislation explicitly. Of course, if someone didn't respect it, they should take responsibility if they didn't declare something. Most of these companies declared, followed the law when they had to do their project. They did research, made this difficult decision to become entrepreneurs and did so after checking the business model that worked towards this situation and therefore invested. Many of these people have staked their property, their own assets, and under certain conditions that are changed for them, about 1,000 people, according to my calculation, will suffer from this action. We even used 200 kilos as an example because NEK uses up to 30 kilos, up to 200 kilos. I think most of these so-called small and medium-sized companies and entrepreneurs are even under 100 kilos. I would agree if we still decided to support small and medium-sized businesses and these enterprising Bulgarians, we could also reduce it to 200 kilos. I think up to 95% of these 228 companies fall into this category. This is my request to you: let us really show that business is important to us. However, this is the largest employer in the country; it creates jobs; it creates domestic product. In these risk conditions, anyone who decides to do business must be supported because without an economy, all other reforms cannot happen either in healthcare or in the social sphere. Absolutely nothing will work if we don't have a strong economy and a strong business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u186	The line, Mr. Dobrev. Second line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Third to the left, Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u187	Colleague, just one sentence. Maybe the other colleagues won't have to do any lines after they hear what I'm going to say. You are making a proposal for a correction of art. 32a, and this whole term is out. Actually, there's no art anymore. 32a to reduce the scope of its action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u188	Is there gonna be a second line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, my objection and disagreement is in principle. If everyone with less than 200 kilos is released, I can assure you, my fellow Member, that there will simply be nothing left over 200. There's nothing more simple than if I own a large photovoltaic park, cut it into ten pieces, and thus reduce its power. That's the first thing that comes into every businessman's mind. How are we gonna do that? It's a purchase and sale. It divides into smaller pieces several companies and all photovoltaics will become below 200. Let the laws apply to absolutely all outlets as they are scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u190	Would you like to use a third line, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u191	No, Mr. Dobrev said it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u192	A hole, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Simeonov, you say: can be reduced. I'm talking about the welding situation that is now. We can shut down what is currently for those companies that currently cover this condition, and not then who can take advantage of such a relief. To Mr. Dobrev: if we vote to drop these texts, of course, that would be good, and what you said would apply to over 1 megawatt, covers small and medium-sized ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u194	To speak, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we may be looking at the most controversial paragraph in this Bill. Argued for several reasons. Firstly, today, the National Assembly must decide what we are doing with a very serious sector of business; what are we doing with certain European directives, the nitrate directive; what are we doing with the new technologies; what are we doing, colleagues, with all the institutions that create documents? I'm starting out fine. We have a National Action Plan for renewable energy sources, where it is accepted that Bulgaria must achieve 35 megawatt production of electricity from animal manure. This is a document adopted by the previous management of the Ministry, Madam Minister. By all estimates of livestock farmers, it turns out that from the animals that are present in Bulgaria, a maximum of 30 35 megawatts of electricity can be produced from their manure. Colleagues, the problem here is that today in Bulgaria there are 11.5 megawatt installed power and such letters from EVN and other enterprises, which do not know why they lie to the National Assembly, give information that they have claimed 60 megawatts. Maybe they're true?! Here, from this tribune Mr. Martin Dimitrov stood up and said: "I decide today those who have started investments within these 35 megawatts, have invested 10 million or 20.30 million investments so far, and I say to them: "From now on you will not continue with these investments. I'm deciding! Why? Because I'm a MP. I'm deciding why. Because I've never worked in the real economy, and on two donkeys, I've never divided straw. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] I'm deciding because I'm thinking about the National Electric Company. And what do you think of the National Electric Company? To destroy the livestock sector with the idea that in the National Electricity Company you will create a tariff deficit. That's it? Dear colleagues, the production of electricity from animal manure has a number of processes before it is already implemented or included in the relevant electricity system. Once included in the electricity system, there is a menu, the technological process that can be traced whether 60% animal manure is used, or 80%, or someone does not use animal manure, produces electricity without planting animal manure. However, we want not to burden the executive with control functions. We decide today, and we say it's over, and we're all out, and from here on out, the cattlemen are gonna mind their own business. Dear colleagues, it is extremely wrong, and it is extremely wrong on the other issue. Why do only livestock farmers have the right to build these 35 megawatt power stations? Because there's only a certain number of farmers who can make them. Our proposal here was in partnership to continue. And those who can invest up to 35 megawatts, you didn't accept them. Dear colleagues, if we are interested in the price of electricity, if we are interested in how much the final customer will pay, we must build a controlled system. By implementing the European directives, instead of paying penalties or 100 million for not implementing the nitrate directive on nitrogen oxides, it is better to invest this money in Bulgaria to open jobs. I'm surprised at the Reformation Block. People who are supposedly invested, people who think about business, people who think that jobs should be found in this country, stand up and say from this tribune: "Today we will judge and see from here. What will you see? Who will support your outrage? I don't agree with that approach. Madam President, I think it is time for you to rest, so that we can clarify, as in the Commission, point. One and two are down. If we can get together and decide what and how the further development of the production of electricity from animal waste will continue. If we cannot agree in the Commission, then the House should decide, but indeed what it will decide is very important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u196	Mr. Atalay, there is no way I can respect your proposal, because according to our Rules, within the last hour until the end of the meeting, holidays on behalf of parliamentary groups cannot be requested. Mr. Dimitrov, you have two minutes to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u197	Colleagues, I rarely take the floor for a personal explanation, but to Mr. Atalay, I can't help but give my significant respect. That is exactly why I would like to say this. You just didn't say, Mr. Atalay, how can you not raise the price of electricity if this door is open? You didn't answer that key question. And you didn't answer because you didn't have an answer. Colleagues, you need to be aware.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u198	Line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u199	It's a personal explanation. If you leave the door open for biomass projects of this kind, the deficit that will be expected, unfortunately, is more than 200 million leva. I hope I'm wrong, I hope that EVN's letter is not entirely true, but if it becomes such a deficit, it means an instant increase in the price of electricity. I'll ask all my colleagues again. You've heard the good talk, but you must make the final decision. I urge you to be reasonable. Do not turn out tomorrow that you have opened the door for a serious increase in the price of electricity, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u200	A line to Mr....
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u201	It's just a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u202	I understand you. But you took the floor for a personal explanation before we heard the lines to Mr. Ramadan Atalay. Mr. Valeri Simeonov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u203	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament. Mr. Atalay, I think you're trying in some way, and quite transparently, to manipulate the National Assembly with common clichés that I disagree with. This is my assessment, respectively, that we will almost go against private business and private initiative with these decisions. Not at all. No one prohibits or prevents those who have so far invested in the preparation, organisation and construction of such biocentrals from putting them into service, putting them into operation and entering the wide free market in order to fight competition and sell their electricity at free market prices. Nobody's bothering them. Perhaps your approach should be different, your thinking. Because by business it is not understood what benefits, preferences from a state, a municipality, but what can survive in an acute competitive struggle. So let them prove that they can produce, that they can sell efficient electricity that will actually be cost-effective for them and win. There's nothing wrong with that. The fact that it will extend the deadline for the return of investments is also nothing fatal. I don't think any bank's gonna say no. It should not be suggested that we are almost here, quite cut off from reality, from the real business, we are cutting off some of the healthy economic forces that want to find jobs. I absolutely disagree with that. After all, in a similar way, a hydrospecialist received an incentive, a remuneration of more than 1 million. lv. for Tsankov Stone, an amount that would be worthy, for example, if he would advise on the construction of a dam at Iguasu Falls. Maybe he wouldn't have taken that kind of money there. So I strongly support the Commission's decision to drop these two points and therefore allow free competition to come out, prove their investment and fight for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u204	Second line to Mr. Atalay? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay? Will you take the hole? You're having second thoughts. By the time you get out, I hope you decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Let's move on, guys. If we do not make the right decision in this House today, we will close the possibility of stopping Bulgaria from paying those penalties that it will suffer from the nitrate directive once. Secondly, those farmers who have started installing so that they can benefit from their animal manure, produce electricity in the most efficient way and then use cake as the most effective way, we will not be at the height that society expects of us today. I believe that those recommendations are useful for Bulgaria, whether they are from hydroengineers or today on renewable energy sources. There is plenty of time for some to learn from those who give helpful advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u206	Mr. Ermenkov has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u207	Madam President, I know that what I have to offer is almost unacceptable. It seems to me that we are at one point right now, which is extremely important, and whatever decision we make right now, I'm not sure it's going to be the right one. Here we also had arguments with the Chair of the Legal Commission............................................................................................ the proposed by Mr. Dobr. Dobrev, Mr. Nikolovovov and Mr. Dimitrov text doesn't matter,......................................................................... We had other arguments. So I suggest, I know it's hard to do and accept it, but it seems to me that the right solution would be this point specifically to postpone it to tomorrow and to proceed with its adoption tomorrow or at a later hour today if we had to extend the working hours. We find ourselves at a point that once part of it has not been adopted by the Commission, we have something that is in the Commission's version, we have different proposals from different MPs in different texts and we cannot unite them in one statement. Therefore, I ask you very much to vote on this decision or you to take this decision to postpone this point and to proceed with the bill afterwards, after this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u208	A reverse opinion? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u209	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not support and object to the postponement of this point for tomorrow, because this means that the entire bill will not be adopted before tomorrow, which means a significant delay in time and not giving the regulator a chance to do its job by August 1st. He won't have any time left. Therefore, I am making a reverse procedural proposal to extend the time of today's sitting until the adoption of the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u210	In essence, there are two procedural proposals - you have made a new one in the form of reverse. This will depend on the way in which the plenary will vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's proposal to postpone the vote on § 11 to move on to the following paragraphs, and finally return to § 11. That's what you're suggesting, isn't it? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] We vote on Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's proposal. They voted 112 MPs: for 30, against 56, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second procedural proposal made by Mr. Delyan Dobrev to extend the plenary time today until the debate and the vote on this bill is over. They voted 132 MPs: for 104, against 11, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u211	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! The first thing I want to put as a question, it is above all, even with the right then to use it as a personal explanation. According to the text of the importers, which was not adopted by the Commission we see Mr. Dimitrov, who made a statement, exactly the opposite of his proposal. I will ask Mr. Martin Dimitrov, in the form of a personal explanation, to explain in which case, what he supports, whether what is here or what he is saying right now. Moreover, in the text proposed and not adopted by the Commission, I understand that it is in some form controlled that there is no completely open door for those who want to deal with the production of electricity from natural manure, but only those who are registered as animal objects, plus the relevant number of animals. Once again I pay attention to you, you may still have to edit, because it is not clear whether only one of the six points or all six points should be clear. Therefore, it may be necessary to put on..... or.... or..... or............. or..... or........ or some other way to understand that it is an option of one to six. The second thing I object to is: because in the history of agriculture, when you apply for aid, it takes one year to prove that you have history and income from agricultural activity, I do not see the logic of asking for a three-year registration period before applying for accession. I propose that this period be reduced to one year. If you want, let's face it. The question I would like to raise further is with regard to our proposals in the part concerning the price at which it will be bought over the production of renewable energy sources. Colleagues, if you want to create chaos on the free market, if the goal is right now, come on, solar installations are not so scary, but wind turbines are the ones that generate a lot of electricity, you want to put them on the free market, where they, forced by them to sell this electricity, will sell it at prices other than that of the surplus, but lower than those of the free market price, want to lower that price. This is the way to buy overproduction at a price. I therefore propose to you once again: in the version of the Commission in art. 31, para. 5, t. 2, existing now, to be replaced by a point which sounds as follows: OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. This will practically mean that we are taking a first step towards market liberalisation. This means that we are introducing market mechanisms, not by dictatorship, by decree or by law, we are setting prices. This means that we allow renewable energy sources, even though we cut their hours, introduced an additional fee, otherwise reduced their investments, recognition and so on, to give them at least the opportunity that what they oversold, which is their commodity, to be redeemed in accordance with the European Union Directive on compulsory buying-in, but at a price that is the average free price. Please, at least realize this thing is in the interest of a market economy, in the interests of liberalisation as well. Rather, it should be you, not us, because it is markety, it is liberal, it is not as state dictated as we should be expected to make such proposals. Once again, I'm reviewing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u212	I'm going to ask you clearly and clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u213	Yeah, I'll give it to you in writing. With regard to the listing of animals, let's see how we can avoid this being not cumulative, introduce a one-year period for the registration of an establishment, not as it stands in the Law of the three-year-old. [[Heckling]] Why? I say again, at the moment, every agricultural activity requires evidence, income from agricultural activity for a year. For unknown reasons, we are currently introducing that there should be three. What's more, you should have a mandatory number of animals here. So, please, please, look at this thing, unless we want to play just the ones that got her list done three years ago. This is also an option indeed, and then we can add to the animals the names of the investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u214	Mr. Ermenkov, please write in writing, in large letters, clearly and precisely the place in the Commission's version. The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u215	Since Mr. Ermenkov prayed for a reply from me, I have a particular sensitivity to BSP and I cannot refuse such a request. I would like to say the following, Mr. Ermenkov, what we have imported with Delyan Dobrev are conditions that tighten control, namely that the manure should be more than 60 percent of biomass, that they should have a registered establishment within the meaning of the Veterinary Activity Act and so on. However, why I no longer support this proposal, which Delyan Dobrev and I have tabled, but why I have proposed a complete closing of the door. Because when we were submitting this proposal with Mr. Dobrev, listen to me, Mr. Ermenkov, I didn't have the information about the 60 megawatts we got from EvN. All this time we've been told the following thing: there will be no more than 5-10 megawatts in the whole country, which can't have a big impact if you want, on the NEK deficit, if you want, can't have a big impact on the electricity price. Subsequently, when we received from Mr. Dobrev and the Energy Commission the letter that it was already over 60 megawatts in one ERP, then I realized, Mr. Ermenkov, that we could witness a similar situation by seeing in other types of RES, namely the expectation of one and the projects being much more, respectively the deficit in NEC being much greater. But since I'm doing a line anyway, I'm asking you this. Will you, Mr. Ermenkov, turn around in the Chamber now, because when I proposed to the Commission that you support the closing of the door, you and Mr. Boychev voted with me? Now I want to ask you: when I listen to you, I feel a certain twist, so I'm going to ask you how you're going to vote? If you can answer so that they understand you afterwards: will you vote as in the Commission or otherwise? So answer me. If it's any other way, it's clear. So please, Mr. Ermenkov, as you have summoned me to ask you, will you now turn around again?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u216	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, my line is in this. Do you know how much animal manure there is in Bulgaria? Or is there, in a figurative sense, an animal fertilizer for 60 megawatts that can be produced? [[Replys to the left: "No! "]] Explain it to the previous replicator. And there's one more thing I have to tell you. Colleagues, the imbalance in the National Electricity Company happened some of those colleagues who were pronounced by this tribune. If we continue to explain to people that someone has sent a letter that 60 megawatt production of animal manure is 60% on the menu in Bulgaria, I'm afraid, and they will be involved in the production of cake... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u218	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u219	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Dimitrov! The fact that there is a letter of investment intentions for 60 megawatts of electricity production from biomass, even if it does exist, does not necessarily have to be production of biomass from animal manure. It could be for any kind of biomass, and we're stopping all other types of biomass anyway. The second thing: it could also be the way investors build plants, and then they go across the country with some big trucks, you know them, collect manure and use it. This is how we prohibit it by this law, if it is adopted, because only animal producers here can do, and it is based on animals they have, and not from somewhere to take additional animals. That's stopping, too. As for the twist, I couldn't understand the word "pak" what it meant, because I don't remember turning around until now ever. If you remember, yesterday's speech in the Commission objected to the way the Law was presented, namely that for me in the Energy Act, excuse me, perhaps I do not know about livestock, but it was funny to bring in 200 chickens, which were even like laying at the beginning. Chicken carriers, then we decided they'd be birds so we wouldn't specify what kind of cattle they'd be in that thing. I also objected to the three-year registration of the farmer. I didn't object to anything else. And now I continue to object to this thing, and so I put the question again: at least let us avoid cumulativeity and let us reduce the registration period to one year! In this situation there is no twisting, there is quite consistent behaviour with the introduction of control methods, with the way in which we solve a matter which, by the way, is important because if animal manure is not processed, it has the relevant emissions and the farmer concerned is obliged to pay. Among other things, this is a way of stimulating livestock farming, as I have already had the opportunity in one of the previous lines to say. So, fellow Members, I say again: things are not so simple and uniform, but in the way they are made, and if you take into account these notes that I have told you, I think there is reason to seek consent and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u220	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure to end the debate under § 11. Our experience with the Commission on Monday has shown that we have been stuck in the debate on manure for over an hour. I am afraid that this could also happen and we could lose a lot of plenary time for the honourable Members. In this sense, I am making a procedure to end the debate under § 11 and move to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u222	A counteroffer? I won't. We are voting for an end to the debate under § 11. They voted 122 MPs: 107, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. First we vote § 11. The proposal is from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov in the part not supported by the article. 1 and 2 by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 80 against 15, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u223	I am opposed to any manipulations in this Chamber and I think it is appropriate to reschedule the part of the proposal in question, as I have witnessed how the President of the Commission has made a sign to GERB that they should vote for................................................................................. That's how you did it! [[Radio.]] So step aside from Mr. Dobrev's sign and vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u224	We are revising the proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group on the topic. 1 and 2, § 11, not supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 107 against 15, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: for 2, against 24, abstention 100. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: 3 against 27, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Ramadan Atali, Mustafa Ahmed, Ahmed Ahmedov and Jayhan Ibryamov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 19 against 28, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. Proposal of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Krasimir Yankov, Chavdar Georgiev and Georgi Turnovalyski. Their proposal is supported by c. 2 letters (e) and (e) are not supported. We are voting on the proposal in its unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 12, against 64, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, now watch closely. We have in the version of the Commission in art. 31, para. 5, t. 2: At a price for surplus on the balancing market for quantities exceeding the productions under point (c) 1; "supposed by Mr. Ermenkov: "2." the average free market price for the month preceding the month of the transaction provided by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the quantities exceeding the productions under point (c). 1);supposed to be in the form of a combination of two or more of the following forms: Isn't that right, Mr. Ermenkov? Is it correct?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u226	We vote on Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's editorial proposal. Vote 128 MPs: 39, against 29, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dobrev, if you please, the version of the Commission for § 11, which becomes § 15, entirely with the Commission's adopted unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u227	If you would like before this only, Mr. President, to put to the vote there was, I think, a second editorial amendment by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, for one year and for the one year. 1-6 in art. 18, para. 7, which we accepted as my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u228	I put this proposal to the vote by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. They voted 120 MPs: 33, against 48, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Dobrev, I ask for the entire version of § 11, which becomes § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u229	Mr President, I will now read the version of § 15 with the reflected adjustments in the plenary of previously unsupported proposals by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The law on renewable energy (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 18 is The incentive under para. 1, t. 2 for the energy objects under art. 24, p. 3 with a combined cycle and indirect use of biomass of which the total weight of manure is not less than 60 per cent shall apply only if the manufacturer of electricity from renewable sources demonstrates that he has registered an establishment within the meaning of the Veterinary Activity Act at least three years before the date of submission of the application for accession and holds a certain number of registered animals, as well as birds, from the manure of which 1 kWh electricity is produced per day, as follows: 1. bovines, buffaloes, 1 issue; 2. calves and heifers for fattening 3. calves up to 6 months 4. pigs suppose 5 pieces; 5. ewes.. 10 pieces; 6. birds.. 300 pieces.......................... 300 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." with combined cycle and indirect use of biomass which is intended to be built in urbanised areas, agricultural sites or production areas and which have installed electrical power up to: (a) 1,5 MW and use biomass of which the total weight of manure is not less than 60 per cent, subject to the requirements of art. 18, para. 7 and for which installed power shall be demonstrated according to the ordinance under art. 116, para. 7 of the Energy Act; (b) 500 kW and use biomass of vegetable waste from own agricultural production. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The public supplier shall, respectively, purchase the electricity produced from renewable sources under the following conditions: 1. at a preferential price, for the quantities of electricity up to the amount of net specific production of electricity, on the basis of which preferential prices have been set in the relevant decisions of the KEWRC; for the sites under art. 24, p. 3 the determined net specific production of electricity does not apply; 2. at a price for surplus on the balancing market, for quantities exceeding the production under point 2. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) the creation of para. 12 and 13: The amount of electricity exceeding the amount of electricity referred to in paragraph 1 shall not exceed the amount of electricity required to be used for the purposes of this paragraph. 5, t. 1 producers may use to supply their branches, enterprises and establishments or to sell at freely negotiated prices under Chapter 9a, Section VII of the Energy Act and/or on the balancing market. (13) For the quantities of electricity under para. 5 commercial TPS graphics of balancing groups with members of producers of electricity from renewable sources can be changed only in accordance with art. 73 of the Energy Act. 4. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 29: It's 29. The net specific production of electricity is the annual average electricity production of 1 kW installed capacity according to the KEWR's decision to determine preferential prices after deduction of own needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u230	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Honourable Members, we are voting on the newly read version of § 11, which becomes § 15. They voted 125 MPs: 104, against 2, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! In the newly adopted § 11 between the number of agricultural animals, the quantities of energy and so on, we adopted a very important rule - part of the Law, which regulates how the balancing electricity market in Bulgaria will function properly. If anyone remembers, last year I asked Minister Petkova a question about the functioning of the market and the change of schedules. This change of schedules was done out of control by the National Electricity Company as a public supplier and made it extremely difficult for producers of highly efficient energy and renewable energy. At the moment, with the adoption of § 11 we have solved the problem of renewables. The problem remains for producers of highly efficient energy. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that we create a similar text in the Energy Act, which will solve the problem with the schedules of producers of highly efficient energy. More specifically, I propose in art. 93a to create a new para. 4 with the following text: The commercial (TPS) schedules of manufacturers of highly efficient combined electricity may be changed only in accordance with art. 73.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u232	You mean to say that § 7a is created, in which Article 7a is created. Paragraph 93 is created. Four? Hey, guys, any speeches? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u233	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My colleague Nedev is right that the adopted text on the adjustment of the trading schedules as proposed and adopted concerns only producers of energy from renewable energy sources. It makes no sense for one producer to apply the rule that trading schedules cannot be adjusted and for the other producers to be able to. This proposal is related to art. 93a of the Energy Act, which we discussed and voted on in several paragraphs before the current paragraph. In this sense, it makes sense in the proposal of colleague Nedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u234	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other comments on this proposal? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr Nedev: screated § 7a: 7a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93a is created. 4. The commercial (TPS) schedules of manufacturers of highly efficient combined electricity may be changed only in accordance with art. 73. Isn't the text correct, Mr Nedev? Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 111 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u235	Proposal from the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is as follows: A new paragraph is being created: Within one month of the entry into force of this Law, the KEWRC shall adopt a decision setting out individual monthly astronomical hours for each manufacturer according to the power of the plant on the authorisation for commissioning under art. 31, para. 5 of the Renewable Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u236	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, not supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 16 against 11, 83 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u237	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Krasimir Yankov, Chavdar Georgiev and Georgi Turnovalyski. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... By 31 July 2015, in accordance with the Renewable Energy Act, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory shall adopt a decision establishing the net specific production of electricity on the basis of which preferential prices have been set in the relevant decisions of the Commission adopted until the entry into force of this Act. In this case, art. 14 does not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u238	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Chairman of the Energy Commission! When we withdrew our proposal yesterday to drop this paragraph, we thought that in the normal way of thinking it was when we talked about net specific production, which means to take away those quantities that are for own production, this would be done in the normal, accepted by everyone, I think a perfectly legal way. From the meter that has read how much is produced and sold to NEK, or is provided to the relevant distributor or carrier, it will be subtracted, again according to the meter data of the second meter, that amount of energy used for own use. This is written, if I am not mistaken, in the article we have already accepted that this is actually net production, this is total production minus production for own use. Suddenly, however, it turned out that in the Commission a little advance they started to make the calculation of the percentage in the way that we had written it to them in §16, that is, we are putting a percentage that we will recognise is own production of the relevant RESs, and we are writing: 5% of the solar installations, for this; 6% of what I am convinced will not stand in the court nor is it market nor normal! Once again, if it is the question of raising some money in the Fund, without knowing what the funds are in the way we collect them, if the task that has been given is the KEWRC at all costs to reduce the price of electricity, although by half a percentage and Mr. Ivan Ivanov to tell us exactly what we need to do and accept in order for this to happen, there must be some logic in what is written. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. Therefore, I propose: if you do not want to drop this paragraph, I propose after the first sentence in § 16 before the sentence: 14 it does not apply to add one sentence which sounds like this: The decision (the previous decision adopted by the KEWRC) is adopted on the basis of the data from the protocols on the electricity used for own use and on the electricity produced by each installation. For each such meter, there are protocols that take into account how much it is produced, how much it is provided in the transmission or distribution network concerned and how much it was produced for its own use. In this way, any speculation will be avoided and any way to determine percentages in a subjective manner and a very objective way will be given: there is an electric meter with two indicators, you take out from one indicator the other indicator, you get what net production is and things are solved. Therefore, I very much ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u240	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's proposal, which is: after the first sentence of Paragraph 16, a new sentence shall be added We are voting on this editorial supplement - a new sentence between the Commission's first and second. They voted 103 MPs: 35 against 5, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 16 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u241	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev: In § 13: 1. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: For producers of electricity from renewable sources through energy sites which are built with funds from a national or European support scheme and this circumstance has not been declared by the application for support in respect of which applications for support have been submitted after the entry into force of the Renewable Energy Act and to which no prices have been applied under art. 31, para. The prices referred to in Article 8 shall apply. 31, para. 8 operating at the date of entry into service within the meaning of the Construction Act on the territory of the energy site. 2. Allinei 5, 6 and 7 drop out. 3. Alinea 8 becomes al. 5. 4. A new para is being created. 6: The provisions of para. 1 - 5 do not apply to power plants with a total installed capacity of up to 200 kW. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 17: § 17. (1) For producers of electricity from renewable sources through energy sites, which are built by means of a national or European support scheme and to which applications for support have been received until the entry into force of the Renewable Energy Act, the prices under art. 31, para. 8 of the same law, which was last designated by a Commission decision on energy and water regulation at the date of the entry into force of that law. (2) Manufacturers under para. 1 by 31 July 2015 they shall submit contracts for the purchase of electricity which have been concluded with the public supplier or the end supplier concerned, in accordance with the requirements of para. 1. (3) After the expiry of the term under para. 2 The public supplier or the end supplier concerned shall buy the electricity produced at the prices provided for in para. 1. (4) Paragraph 3 shall also apply in cases of non-compliance with the obligation under para. 2. (5) For producers of electricity from renewable sources under para. The provisions of Article 1 shall not apply. 31, para. Art. 4 and art. 32, para. 3 of the Renewable Energy Act. Upon expiry of the term of the buy-in contract under art. 31, para. 2 of the Renewable Energy Act is not granted preferential prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u242	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u243	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I stand on the stand to support the proposal of colleagues Ananiev and Trenchev with the following motives. From my constituency, I was approached by 15 power producers who are extremely concerned with them. They are part of a group of around 330 small Bulgarian companies, which are primarily related to the Agricultural Fund. I have been informed of this and asked to inform the people's representation and to look into the problem which concerns them that, yes, they have been subsidised through the Fund of Agriculture. Along with this in our constituency, and not only there, the land on which the investment was made is expensive as they fall into part of settlements where there is developed tourism. Parallel to this, they have to set up a trappost, choose technology trackers. Without European funding and preferential price, this is an expensive investment. In addition, I would like, colleagues, to take into account that when they submitted documents and created their investment and their documents in the State Fund, the RES Act was not available. It wasn't up to date, and it wasn't in force. They make one reckoning that the delivered price of the facilities they have implemented is four times higher than the one realized in this sector that we are debating hotly, 2013-2014. It is for this reason that the reckoning they make says: yes, we are receiving a subsidy, but in the small business that we have created, we had to invest approximately 300,000 own funds. For these funds they received a bank loan, where there is collateral at the RES plant, the entire property some with their houses, land, properties and beneficiaries. The same about 15 producers in our region are ready to be fully examined to verify what they are asking through me to inform the national representation and you to make an informed decision to support this proposal of colleagues Ananiev and Trenchev. Really what they are asking me and they are worried: why, when they have respected European regulations under the Rural Development Programme, measure 313 and 312, in order to make a local economy in areas where there is no small and medium-sized business, they have respected the country's laws, now again with law they must be punished? For this reason, I support and make a message to the MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament and I appeal to you to support the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev in their proposal under § 13, especially para. 6, because I think it is fair and because I think that in the fragile and honest Bulgarian business it is not necessary to put them all under the same archin. This proposal is, in principle, precisely for small and medium-sized businesses. One proposal that we can tear them off, the banks take their loans, through the loans to take their investment and in such remote areas as mine with this bill to cause damage. I therefore ask you, Members of Parliament, to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u244	Any lines to Mrs. Yankova? Mr. Dobrev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u245	Mrs. Yankova, a very short line. I understand the motives of these 15 companies, who have addressed you to 15 small companies from the region of Smolyan. I also received such letters. In this case, however, it is precisely about restoring justice, because these companies have received, you know, a grant of 70% of the investment under the Rural Development Programme. In other words, they have invested their own or attracted funds from loans from banks of only 30%. The law already said in 2011 that in this situation their preferential price should be considered on the basis of 30% own funds or funds from bank loans that they have supported or completed this free European funding. I suppose you also know that there is a criminal procedure against Bulgaria at the moment, there are also adjustments to the Rural Development Programme as to whether we have complied with the principle of support from only one source. In this case, it is obtained that they are, on the one hand, supported by 70% grant from the Programme, on the other hand, supported by the full amount of the preferential price. The proposal that we have given concerns that they should again receive a preferential price, but on the amount of their own investment of 30%, without counting as an investment the 70 per cent grant provided by the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u246	Second line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Actually, I wanted to make a line if I could add Mr. Dobrev, who said almost everything. There are already letters, based on this procedure at some point we will have to return this money and take it from the beneficiaries accordingly. So the better case is to react and be able to send a letter to the European Commission that we have made appropriate adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u248	A hole, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u249	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I understand the considerations that you have, but in parallel to this we need to understand that these people have put them in legal reality to do this, the law has allowed and they have not surrounded it. These are much older investments and it is very difficult, when European directives come out, to implement them and to think that everyone is almost privileged. I know these people. They're needy. Even an account here I suppose that the President of the Commission has received: it is so that if we have a small plant, they will make a profit of about 9 thousand. Divided by 12 months "750." Neither will they serve their bank credit, nor will they have the opportunity, only to compare the alimony accounts of the facility itself. I suppose the Minister and we should know these people. This is a large family of small entrepreneurs - 330 people in the Rhodope Mountains - 15. Indeed, we must implement the European directives, but there are ways to encourage Bulgarian production. What's going on? The big ones in luxury, with privileges and a large lobby; the small ones are squeezed. If that's the case with the 30 percent, at least I don't see it contained in § 17, which will be accepted, I don't know where it will be positioned, I think it's a sip. But I think it is necessary to talk to them, Madam Minister, to know these people and not to do so because you have a portfolio of economics, energy, it is also a development of the business environment that is related to it, not to kill small companies. So my message is, see them again, listen to them, calm the environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u250	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 101 MPs: 11 against 17, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 17 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 107 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u251	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in Article 2 (1) of the basic Regulation. (1) The provision of art. 18, para. 7 of the Renewable Energy Act shall not apply to energy plants producing electricity from renewable sources which are put into operation until the entry into force of this Act. (2) For the energy objects under art. 24, p. 3 point (a) of the Renewable Energy Act, which are requested for accession until the entry into force of this law and are not put into service, the circumstances of art. 18, para. 7 of the same law shall be proved by an application to the relevant distribution network operator. The application shall be submitted within one month of the entry into force of the amendments to the regulation under art. 116, para. 7. (3) The ordinance referred to in art. 116, para. 7 shall be implemented in accordance with the Renewable Energy Act within three months of the entry into force of this Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Encouraging under art. 18, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8, as well as Art. 31 and 32 of the Renewable Energy Act shall not apply to energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources which are put into operation after the entry into force of this Act, with the exception of the sites under art. 24, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u252	Statements? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u253	Dear colleagues, the unsupported proposal from me and my colleagues Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov concerns this more limited number of companies, companies that can build electricity production facilities using animal manure. In this sense, we changed the Commission's decision to § 15 and agreed to continue to build such plants, but only, notice, the owners of animals, with animal objects. We have recorded the production of electricity from different types of animals in order not to speculate with this topic and not to have enough animal manure for 60 megawatts, to build 60 or 80 megawatts to meet the amount of animal manure that is available on farms in Bulgaria. In this regard, in order to be able to impose this stricter control that we have adopted in § 15, it is also necessary to adopt this proposal because it regulates how this control is to be carried out. In general, it is said that within one month it is necessary that all who have started an investment in the sector, the sixty-several megawatts mentioned by Mr. Dimitrov, declare and prove the existence of the number of animals needed after the new provisions in the Law. If I may, Madam President, I would also like to make another editorial proposal on the text proposed by the Commission for the creation of a new § 18. My editing is: after "Renewable sources" in the text to complete the text "of art." 24, p. 3 which have been put into service since 1 July 2016 I read the whole text one more time: the encouragement under art. 18, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8, as well as Art. 31 and 32 of the Renewable Energy Act shall not apply to energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources under art. 24, p. 3 which have been put into service since 1 July 2016 This proposal again relates to limiting the scope of these investments. What we are doing right now: we are giving a one-year term to those who meet the strict criteria to complete their investments. After this one-year period, there will be no more preferential price for this type of investment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u254	Only once more the text: "Renewable sources under art. 24, p. 3 which have been put into service since 1 July 2016 - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u255	Dear colleague Dobrev, together with you we have made very good reforms in energy and I fear that you underestimate the situation here, opening the door for biomass animal manure. I have a very specific question for you and it is as follows: how will you control all the time that electricity produced in this way uses more than 60% animal manure in total biomass? How will you carry out this control? How come it won't turn out at some point that the percentage has dropped to 10, 5, 0, 17 and so on? How will you implement this control?! And secondly, honourable Members, if on 1 July 2016, it turns out that there are no 10 megawatts, no 15 megawatts, no 30 megawatts, as we were told by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is what we were told by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And there's 60, 70, 100 and more megawatts. How are we going to cover this deficit, colleagues, and why are we taking this risk with all the key reforms we have made together? That is my question to you: how do you intend to carry out control?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u256	Second line? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u257	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I am also very unpleasantly surprised by the addition that has been tabled. I fully support my colleague Dimitrov and I urge you not to accept him, because we are doing the exact opposite of what we are trying to do with the whole amendment of the Law. We are trying to limit costs, limit the national energy deficit, and now suddenly we are giving a one-year deadline by 1 July 2016, when anyone who wishes can complete their biocentrality. I'll tell you what's gonna happen. What happened on 1 July 2012: many photovoltaics were put into operation without ever being built on documents. Then let's not go: "Ole-maly, why did it happen?"♪ That's how it works ♪ ♪ When it's given the opportunity to abuse, it'll be done ♪ We do not need to increase the percentage of renewables. We have achieved the regulatory requirements of the European Union by 2020. What we are doing, in my opinion, we are simply creating an opportunity for certain close groups or people who are quite talented with regard to the abuses of the bills, to build fictitious plants, or to preserve the possibility of building them in the future and, accordingly, to continue the draining, plundering and extruding of the National Electricity Company. So I strongly oppose this proposal, and I urge you not to support it either. And especially for colleagues from GERB I would do as Mr. Dobrev does. [[Walking his finger. Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u258	Third line? A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u259	Honourable Members, regarding the fears we have about whether these megawatts will become too much. As strange as it may be in the Energy Act or in the Renewable Energy Sources Act, we have recorded all kinds of animals that can generate animal manure. And not only that, we recorded that a cow gives a kilowatt per day. I mean, to do a megawatt and a half installation, you have to have 1,500 cows. Don't you have 1,500 cows all the time? I'm sorry I'm going into these details, but it's still important to understand. You can't make a megawatt and a half. That's what the lyrics say. On the other hand, it says that the birds, which in the original proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food were laying hens, should have 300 birds per kilowatt per day. If you multiply 1,500 times 300, how much is that? $450,000. You have to have birds to build a megawatt and a half. The connection is between the amount of electricity produced and the number of animals you have to own, not to have contracts in the villages with one or two animals and to simulate that you are almost going to use animal manure. You must own these animals and be a farmer for at least three years before the entry into force of the Law, so that new hatchlings don't appear and say, "Tomorrow we are farmers, here are the cows, we will look at cows, so that we can produce electricity. In this sense, the provision is, in my opinion, extremely restrictive. What can be done additionally is the regulation to place constant control over the amount of animal manure whether it is 60% or 20, or 50, or 5 and whether it exists or not. There's a regulation. It is written here and we have not voted on it yet, but we are about to vote on the texts where this control will be made even stricter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u260	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u261	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be polite. Apparently, the subject of bulls and chickens and exactly what amount of manure they give them is very exciting to them all. Two amendments said an electrometer. Electrometer is at home, otherwise it is a means of commercial measurement. It is a set of one or more instruments, but it is called a commercial measurement facility. Let's not put this shit in the Law, because then we have to fix it. With regard to cake, there is gas everywhere, there is an opportunity for the Bridge of Friendship and not to make it happen that we are reporting fertilizer, but we are actually selling energy at one price at a time. [[Applause from PF.]] And finally, who's gonna tell me where, how much fertilizer can come out? We have appliances, we have standardisation, we have metrology. It's true there's a device called a halkimeter. It's very nice, but it can't measure. Don't mess with this shit. This is possible only for large, large, powerful companies that have designed tanks for storage of biomass, everything else is just a imitation. Let us dwell on the basic texts. Let's not give it a chance to drain anyway standing on the edge of survival NEK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u262	Mr. Dimitrov, I don't understand. There is no word anywhere in § 18. Are there any lines to Mr. Emil Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u263	Colleague Dimitrov, with the failure of § 18 we do not actually achieve the goal you set yourself. Because § 18 in this version says that in one year there will be no preferential prices for these producers. If we do not accept § 18, it will mean that there will always be preferential prices, or at least until we make a change to say that there are no more preferential prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u264	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov. You won't use it. Any other MPs? There's a word for it, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u265	Dear colleagues, the truth is born in the dispute. That's what big thinkers said. I hope in July next year we will be safe and sound, we will see the facts. I hope the facts are what the DPS promised us. They said more than 30 megawatts could not be made in Bulgaria. But when the end of the year comes, when July 2016 comes, we will do a full check. Not to turn out that not 30 but more than 100 megawatts were made that we thought we had solved the NEK deficit, reformed the power plants, plant plants, renewables, but it turns out that a new huge deficit has been created. Then who will bear the responsibility? The most important thing is the question of control. That's why I asked Mr. Dobrev. I see he's well-meaning. He says we're gonna control it, we're gonna stop the abuse. I say, Mr. Dobrev, you cannot control. We can't control it, and a lot of power stations will appear. Suddenly you will see how the number of cows in Bulgaria will increase, for example. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] Everyone will have a huge amount of cows, at least on paper. In addition, how will you be able to control the percentage of manure that is put into production? You'll send one check, you'll do a second check, but permanent control can't be done. In the end, it will turn out that this production uses really not 60% manure, but a much smaller percentage. My estimate from now on is between zero and 10%. No one can control it, no matter how much they want to. Nor can it control what production is at night, nor can we have an organ that does constant checks. More importantly, here's the thing. We are not currently drawing lessons from the problems we have examined. We are not learning the lessons from 2012, which happened... a boom that was not foreseen. We do not learn from one question to Traycho Traykov, which I will never forget. Then I asked him: Mr. Traikov, what is the volume of RES in Bulgaria? How many are the preliminary and how many are the final contracts? [[Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] It's about the subject, Mrs. Atanasova, I assure you. When he became Minister, he didn't know. When he came to the Commission's meeting, he said: the 12 thousand megawatt preliminary contracts, which is six times "Belene," imagine it this way. I was amazed. And he didn't know it! You're doing a similar experiment right now. You have a majority, you will accept these things. I'm only asking you this... A colleague even calls me Come on, come on! Come on, come on, but then you ask us how to solve the deficit problem. I understand that you're putting this topic on the table and you're gonna fix your deficit from now on, you're gonna take on the appreciation of the price of electricity. Take that responsibility, and don't tell me it would only be a dozen megawatts, that it wouldn't be a problem. They would be up to 30 megawatts, explained by the DPS. The risk that is being taken is very serious and enormous! Given everything that has happened and the common goal that we have set for solving the NEK deficit, I cannot understand you, colleagues. I do not understand why you are opening the door today for this experiment with possible severe consequences for Bulgarian energy. I fear that everything we have done that we have firmly supported you for, what we have done together, is being questioned and may not be successful. I hope I am wrong, I hope you are right, but I ask you again: if tomorrow we find ourselves right that this has led to a new, huge amount of RES, to a new huge NEK deficit, please, today, which you voted in this way, to tell us what solution you are offering to all these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u266	We'll slaughter the cows.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u267	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u268	I'm making two procedural proposals. We're back to the barn dung thing again. I think we've discussed it long enough. That is why I propose an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u269	A reverse opinion? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u270	I'm also doing a second procedure, Mr. Chairman. I am making an editorial amendment in the proposal that I and my colleagues have made in para. 3 where the period of three months is written, I propose that the period be one month. That's the end of § 13a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u271	First, we vote on Mr. Dobrev's proposal to end the debate. Please vote. Vote 110 MPs: 97 against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We vote not supported by the Commission the proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov for § 13a. They voted 114 MPs: for 89, against 2, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. After the proposal has already been adopted, we are voting on the proposal under the same § 13a, made by Mr. Dobrev and a group of MPs in the last sentence of the preceding order, and the expression Please vote. Vote 116 MPs: 101, Against 9, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dobrev, I'm going to ask you to read the version of § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u272	Paragraph 18, with the editing I proposed, sounds like this: .............................................................................. Encouraging under art. 18, para. 1, t. 6, 7 and 8, as well as Art. 31 and 32 of the Renewable Energy Act do not apply to energy plants for the production of electricity from renewable sources. 24, p. 3 is, we put a comma.. which has been put into operation since 1 July 2016.....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u273	Colleagues, voting regime for these amendments. They voted 114 MPs: for 85, against 14, abstention 15. Editorial amendment accepted. I put the entire § 18 to the vote with the newly adopted editorial amendment. They voted 115 MPs: 99, Against 9, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u274	The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm From the date of entry into force of this Act until 1 January 2016, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall issue certificates to electricity producers for the origin of electricity produced in high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u275	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 19 in the version of the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 109 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u276	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Energy shall issue the ordinance under art. 4, para. 2, p. 22......................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u277	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 14, which becomes § 20 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u278	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov: ????????????????? Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the State Financial Inspection Agency, together with the Ministry of Finance, shall carry out a verification of all RES producers for compliance with the investments made by the European Commission's Guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014-2020. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. The checks under art. 80a shall be completed within one year of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u279	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, not supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 39, Against 6, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal in the version of the report on a new § 21. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u280	Proposal from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Krasimir Karakachanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u281	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u282	The motion has been withdrawn. Thank you. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraphs 3 and 11 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 I'm making an editorial amendment to
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u283	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the editorial change Voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 22 with the correction that has just been made: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraphs 3 and 12 shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 Voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u284	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u285	Statements? [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u286	Mr. Chairman, could you keep it down in the room?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u287	If you please, colleagues, give me one minute of your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u288	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I take note of the paragraph which regulates the entry into force of the Law. Firstly, I take note of the issue that we are in a hurry to adopt this Law, which we will surely already do, and it will probably be published on Friday, I would like to ask the Minister of Energy a question: is the regulation needed to do the calculations in the KEWRC ready and will we legally not have a regulation? That's the question I want to ask. Secondly, I would like to congratulate the importers on this wonderful bill they made. We have two whole texts that have been adopted by the importer. The title and entry of the Law into force. Everything else has changed, which once again proved that our Parliament can pass a law at first reading by title and last paragraph, and everything else to do in the procedure between first and second readings. So I suggest that if you ever want to cut back on time, pass the laws at first reading, and then we fix them between first and second readings. To importers: bravo for the so quality Law introduced at first reading! I'm just proud of you, thank you. [[(Noise and lines. ♪ Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-22.u289	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 23. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading. Now the colleagues from the Financial Texts will have their contribution to rearranging the numbering of the paragraphs. That should be the end of today's plenary day. We're continuing tomorrow on the program we received earlier this morning. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
