ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u1	I shall open the plenary session. I suggest to your attention a draft Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 18 to 20 February 2015 as follows: 1. Draft decision for the election of Vice-President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Importer: Miho Mihov. 2. A draft decision on a change in the management of a permanent committee. Importer: Miho Mihov. 3. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer: Health Commission. 4. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Importer: Council of Ministers. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P.L.C., Societe General and UniCredit Bank AG in the capacity of Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Treaty on Agentship between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citibank N.A., branch London, as the Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Agent for the Calculation of Citigroup Global Marks Deutscheland AG in the capacity of Registrator, Payment Agent and Agent for the Transfer of the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000, signed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria. 6. Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to check and assess the state of energy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 31 January 2015. Importers: Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. 7. First vote on the Energy Efficiency Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Bill amending the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks [[importers: Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs]] and a deposit guarantee bill in banks (importer: the Council of Ministers). 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Access to Space Data. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. [[importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs; Volen Siderov and a group of MPs; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; the Council of Ministers; Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs; Petar Slavov.]] 13. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers: Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. 14. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. Draft Decision for the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020. Importer: Council of Ministers, extension. 16. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. It will begin on Friday, at 11:00 p.m., with a debate on questions submitted by the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of MRDPD for the renovation of residential buildings and will continue with answers to questions and questions. Voting mode. Vote 170 MPs: 138 against 28, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the ABC Parliamentary Group Mr. Kiril Tsochev has proposed to be included as a point in the weekly programme. This proposal is contained in the Program we have adopted. That's t. 6 of the Programme, which is why the need to vote is removed. There is a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, by Prof. Svetla Bachvarova, which offers on the same grounds...................................................................................... 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, as an item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 18 February 2015 to include first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests with entry No 454-01-45 of 18 November 2014. Importers: Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. Mrs. Bachvarova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we propose an item on the agenda on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 to be examined at first reading the Law on Forests with its proposed changes. In recent weeks, we have seen various legislative initiatives seeking a solution to a serious problem in the management of Bulgarian forests. The proposed proposals for a moratorium on the export of processed wood are a response to the intolerance of society on what is happening in the country for the impunity and uncontrolled logging in the Bulgarian forests. The Bulgarian Socialist Party offers solutions that concern not only the suspension of exports of raw wood from the country, but also proposes changes in the Law on Forests to put an end to illegal corruption schemes and illegal exports from the country. Three years after the adoption of the Law, we believe that we have sufficient reason to say that it needs changes to end bad practices in the sector, and such are not one and two. The result of the implementation of the Law in its form is that the control functions of the state are very limited and the free initiative is supported. The law is not forestry and is not in defence of the Bulgarian forest. It's a classic example of illegal logging that someone else hasn't sanctioned under the permissions they issued. According to data from the non-governmental sector, illegal logging in Bulgaria reaches up to 5 million. cubic meters per year. Illegal logging also has serious negative consequences on the country's economic and environmental consequences. The imposed thesis that it can be stopped by adopting and writing various programs and strategies, which we also heard yesterday in parliamentary control, is at least not serious because this will not solve the problems in the management of the Bulgarian forests. It is no coincidence that the different groups of society, including the non-governmental sector, are alarmed that illegal logging is also carried out with the assistance of the control bodies. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the end, I just want to say that I'm suggesting that I understand that you are making a commitment, Mrs. Tsacheva, next week...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u3	That is what I expected you to say as a decision of the Conference of Presidents, but you are speaking to each other in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u4	Of course, I still want to justify what I think is important to hear. Next week, we propose that the bills that have been submitted to the Forest Law be discussed and examined in the Chamber as soon as possible. Thank you, but I think it's appropriate to hear the proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Colleagues, we discussed this proposal at the Conference of Presidents. There is also a bill submitted by Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, which is discussed and is in the general report on this topic. There is a third bill from the Reformation Block on the same topic and two proposals for a moratorium from the GERB group and the group of the Patriotic Front. On a joint decision by the Conference of Presidents, we united around the idea this week that the Commission should look at the bills that have not been seen to join the programme next week. You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria makes a proposal to drop item 5th of the agenda on the grounds that another result was announced in the vote of the Bill in the Committee on Foreign Policy, which was then changed and in the Commission's report there is another result. [[Noise and lines.]] Of course, there are colleagues in the Chamber who attended the sitting. A score of nine to nine votes was announced and the point was not accepted. Another result was then added to the Commission's report. We believe that the Bill has not passed through the External Commission and it is necessary to pass through it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u7	A reverse opinion? Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Zablyanov, the bill went quite normally to the Foreign Commission. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The score was nine to nine. The gentlemen of the Patriotic Front to come out and say whether they have any claim to the new result, as Mr. Angelov misled me that Mr. Bogdanov was on the Commission, but was actually absent. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u9	We are not discussing the procedure in the Commission, but the procedural proposal to drop the agenda. Do you support him, or are you doing the opposite?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u10	I'm making a reverse procedural proposal, Mrs. Tsacheva. We don't support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u11	I put to the vote the procedural proposal for dropping from the agenda of item 5.. A bill for ratification of the three contracts and the Act for commitment. Vote 177 MPs: 83 against 86, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Philip Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. It's also obvious from the coworker's statement that there's a forgery of protocol and the vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Nine to nine doesn't pass the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u13	Colleague, you're a lawyer, so you have to be more precise with the legal notions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u14	It is unacceptable for the National Assembly to legitimise such a false protocol. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u15	Shouldn't a target body find out there's a forgery? [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It's a re-vote. Vote 177 MPs: 84, against 88, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u16	Dear colleagues! Madam President, since you have just called for legal precision, I propose that the ratification of the Dealership Treaty and the Agency Treaty be excluded from point five because, within the meaning of the Bulgarian Constitution, these are not international treaties which contain financial obligations for the Bulgarian State and are therefore not subject to ratification. The International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria states which international treaties are those in which the Bulgarian State participates with foreign persons and which do not contain financial obligations are not international treaties subject to ratification. In this case, they could be included if the two contracts clearly indicated what commissions the Bulgarian State would pay to the four banks and how much. We assume that this will be tens, hundreds of millions of levs. However, since this is not stated in these treaties, within the meaning of the law they should not be ratified by the National Assembly. In addition, Vladislav Goranov, who has concluded these contracts, wants to escape political responsibility and also from criminal responsibility for enslaving the state with tens of millions of levs, which we will owe to foreign banks. I demand that you put to the vote the drop of the two contracts "The Treaty on Dealing and the Treaty on Agency with four private foreign banks, which will engage the Bulgarian state with huge commissions within tens of millions of levs, which are not mentioned in these contracts. [[Noise and lines in GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u17	Mrs. Manolova, the project that has been carried out, the draft law, looks like this. Essentially, after debate, a name change can be made, but from the law on the agenda in the program I can't rule out... Look at what the law looks like. You're making an absolutely unacceptable offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u18	I saw. Just because Vladislav Goranov broke the law doesn't mean parliament should give him an indulgence... [[strong noise in GERB and RB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u19	There is a line in which parliament will decide whether or not it has broken it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u20	...indulgence for both the violation of the law and the violation of the Rules of Parliament and the violation of the Bulgarian Constitution. We will now be the indulgence of the violation of the law. Here you can carry other than political - and criminal responsibility. I demand that Parliament not engage in the cover-up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. You will have the opportunity, when the appropriate point is in place, to make your point. Procedure. [[Reply of National Representative Maya Manolova.]] How can I put to a vote you propose from a bill coming from the Council of Ministers to exclude half of the name of the bill?! You're the only one who thinks this can happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since you will not put this proposal to the vote by Mrs. Manolova and after you have confirmed the inclusion of a fifth item on the agenda of the weekly programme, on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria I am proposing that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria be invited to participate in the debates on the fifth point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u23	Mr. Boychev has already been invited at the suggestion of your leadership of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u24	The significance of this point can only be compared with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. So it's only natural for the Prime Minister to be present.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u25	Thank you. We're moving on to our schedule for today. Message. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 11 February to 17 February 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer "Maya Manolova" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. Importers "Maya Manolova, Kiril Dobrev and Atanas Zafirov." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area. Importer Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors. Importer "Maya Manolova" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A draft decision imposing a moratorium on exports of raw wood. Importer "Krasimir Karakachanov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill of protection for the overindebtedness of individuals. Importer "Kyril Tsochev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Forest Act. Importer Dimitar Delchev and group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft Decision on the suspension of exports and dispatches of goods falling within codes 440110, 440320, 440391, 440392 and 440399 of the Combined Nomenclature pursuant to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1101/2014 of 16 October 2014 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OBL 312/1 of 31 October 2014)). Importer "Tsveta Karayancheva" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer "Krasimir Karakachanov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Law on Political Parties. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer "Daniel Kirilov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the border checkpoint of Macaza......................................................................................... Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. A bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer "Kristian Vigenin" and group of MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer "Daniel Kirilov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision on changes in the composition and management of the Energy Commission. Importer Miho Mihov. Draft Decision on Debriefing No 554 05-8/21 January 2015 submitted by the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of MRDPD for the renovation of residential buildings. Importer "Maya Manolova" and group of MPs. Draft decision for the election of Vice-President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Importer Miho Mihov. With a letter in my letter. No 552-27-1 from 17 February 2015 to the President of the Forty-third National Assembly, I have been informed by the Vice-President of the ABC Parliamentary Group Mr. Miho Mihov that, in connection with the meeting of the ABB Parliamentary Group on 17 February 2015, the following decision has been taken: "1." Accepts a change in the composition of the management of the ABB Parliamentary Group as follows: 1.1. The Parliamentary Group retains its name: the Parliamentary Group ABB. 1.2. The leadership of the group is composed of: Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the ABB. Dr. Borislav Mihailov Borisov; Vice-Presidents Kiril Petrov Tsochev and Miho Dimitrov Mihov; Secretary Ivan Slavov Ivanov. Next are the signatures of the colleagues from the group. On 12 February 2015 the National Assembly presented its own initiative and adopted by the plenary session of the Economic and Social Council a resolution on the topic of the main positions of the Economic and Social Council on the review of the implementation of the Strategy The material is provided to the Standing Committees whose portfolio is embedded in the resolution and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 13 February 2015, the updated annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. The updated annual programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 13 February 2015, a Report on the implementation of the policies and programmes of the State Agency of State Reserve and Wartime Stocks was received in the National Assembly on 31 December 2014. The material was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Energy Commission. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 13 February 2015, material was received from the National Statistical Institute, containing results from statistical surveys for gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2014. Express assessments. The material is available to the MPs at the Library of the National Assembly. The Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that on the basis of a permanent diplomatic block authorisation, a US Navy military vessel will reside in the territorial sea, internal sea waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and will visit the port of Varna on 20 February 2015. The visit of the ship is unofficial, peaceful and is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, to another State or organisation of armed forces. The notification has been made to the Defence Committee. On 16 February the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the National Assembly received an annual report on the established policies and programmes of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for 2014. The material was provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mrs. Karastoyanova on behalf of the group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u26	Dear President, honourable Presidency, honourable Members of the National Assembly! People's representatives from the Patriotic Front coalition are extremely worried about the fact that in Bulgaria there is still no public agreement on how to use the mountains for the benefit of society, for the sustainable development of tourism, for the health of the people and for the protection of the environment. Bulgaria has 4 million. hectares of forest fund, 13 natural parks, 89 reserves, 37 thousand. km. mountain routes. We are second in biodiversity in Europe. For winter sports Bulgaria has defined 32 ski zones, a total of 110 lifts and about 210 km ski slopes. For comparison only in Carintia, one of the youngest and most modern regions in Austria, the ski area offers a total of 1031 km of slopes, 34 resorts, 289 lifts on a total area of 331 sq. km. The area of only one of the resorts in Bulgaria is 476 sq. km. Bulgaria ranks last in number of ski zones and lifts in the European Union. Sofia is the only European capital with priceless natural wealth. Mountain Vitosha can offer conditions for year-round mountain tourism for all residents and guests of the capital. In time we waste an exceptional opportunity 30 minutes after landing at Sofia Airport tourists to be at the top of the mountain. This condition shows that the institutions are unable to resolve issues related to the regulation and management of public property in tourism. In the last 15 years we have been hostages to a false thesis, namely that tourism in Bulgaria is private property. This only applies to hotels and restaurants. The great owner of Bulgarian tourism is the state, it owns multibillionaire capital, namely the natural and cultural historical heritage. Figuratively speaking, if we can use the language of modern technology, hotels and restaurants are the hardware of the industry, and the software that forms the high value is natural and cultural historical attractions. On 7 November 2014, the present National Assembly voted in favour of the creation of the Ministry of Tourism. Dear colleagues, however, this is not the great goal of Bulgarian tourism. Today, the figures show that 3 billion are realized from tourism. EUR annual revenue and this is the only export industry with the potential to double revenue. The tourism ministry is a means of achieving this goal and must give us an answer to the following question. If tourism today generates nearly 15% of the country's gross domestic product, what percentage would we like to achieve in 10 years? The instrument for achieving this goal is the formulation of a 10-year National Strategy for the Development of Tourism in Bulgaria, which is also laid down in the Programme Declaration of Sustainable Governance, which we supported. The question of having a second lift in Bansko is a rhetorical question. The answer is given by the experts. Bulgaria needs 60 new lifts for the development of sustainable tourism in the mountains. The question of having a second lift in Bansko is: can the state create order in the construction of a lift, in the design of a municipality, in the development of a structural-determining industry? Are we able to create a framework for the management of tourist zones, given that we still do not have a legal definition of this term? Can we get decent income from national wealth, create new jobs and improve; is local economies? We demand a clear position of the government and concrete actions by the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Youth and Sports to solve the case Bansko. Bulgaria needs a broad debate and lasting public agreement on the principles of sustainable tourism. We at Coalition Patriot Front state that together we can hold this debate in the Forty-third National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Tourism is politics and economics. Tourism is culture and diplomacy. Tourism is the only alternative to work and life in much of the country's interior. Tourism today is also the strongest platform for Bulgaria's performance in the world. Tourism, honourable colleagues, the support of Bulgarian tourism is patriotism! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for the Bulgarian Revival, the People's Representative Miho Mihov. Here you are, General Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am authorized to lower the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for the Bulgarian Revival of 100 Days of Government and the participation of the representatives of the ABB in the government. The government has launched its activities in a difficult and unusual situation. It was not easy the task that the Bulgarian electorate put before us politicians. The state of the economy and the social sphere is difficult. Military conflicts and increasing geopolitical tensions increase threats and risks to the country. In this situation, the creation of sustainable and working management had no alternative. ABB's participation in the government is the biggest challenge facing the party. We took the risk of imposing our identity within a broad management formation of parties with different ideas. This is a difficult and delicate political task that requires very high activity in front of the representatives of the ABB, dialogue and skill to seek agreement, but with clearly outlined priorities that motivate our participation in the government. The government's three-month work has shown that it has led to a stabilisation of the political situation, to more dialogue and publicity in decision making, to achieving some important ABC results, especially in the social sphere, to reaching long-standing priorities in the area of the pension system, health care, judicial system, education. The government has worked and its partners have established a mechanism for discussing real policy. This is not the ABC's dream configuration, but it is defined by the Bulgarian electoral and ABB has the opportunity to influence decisions in parliament and executive power. That's a good score for the first 100 days. Based on the above conclusions and assessments, the ABB Parliamentary Group adopts the following positions for the participation of the party's representatives in the country's governance. Firstly, taking into account the key importance for maintaining political stability and, at the same time, the need for policy changes in various areas of public life and the state, the ABB Parliamentary Group has positively assessed the initial steps, the role and activity of our representatives in governance. Our assessment of our own actions is realistic and self-critical. We still fail to identify and defend our goals and priorities fully and convincingly. We are ambitious to make them our main task. Secondly, the ABB Parliamentary Group assesses dignity and supports Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin's initiatives in the following areas: providing Christmas supplements for low-income pensions; increasing the minimum wage for 2015 by 11.8%; updating the 2014 budget and providing an additional 55 million. lv. to finance the planned for annual social activity; an increase in social activity by 200 million lv. for 2015 and in the case of a total reduction in the budget; ensuring the financing of the Programme for Personal Assistants until the new operational programme enters into force in April 2015; increasing the maximum insurance income, resulting in an adjustment of the ceiling of the pensions for service and age from 840 to 910 BGN. since July 2015; active activity and broad public discussion on stabilisation and long-term strengthening of our pension system. Third, the past 100 days of the government's work have confirmed the existence of some differences between the political party. A number of government positions in foreign policy, military and national security are on the rise. We believe that the model of financial and tax policy that has been adopted for years, followed and now deepens and does not solve the problems; that the starting point should not be the sanification, but the development of the economy and especially the energy; our demographic policy must be the main priority. We are for an open, honest dialogue with our management partners, trade unions and employers' organisations. Despite the steps taken, such as the establishment of the Development Council, we believe that there is much to be desired mostly in the process of practical coordination in the implementation of the adopted decisions. Finally, despite the difficulties in this situation, in this initial period of management activity, the ABB considered and assessed its participation in it as positive, especially in terms of the need for stability of the state and state institutions as a social corrective in implementing reforms and changes. As we have already stated in the formation of the government, this participation is not and will not be at all costs. We will continue to analyse and carefully evaluate the governance and opportunities for achieving the objectives and priorities we set ourselves. The crucial criterion for our participation is the compliance with the commitments made to Bulgarian citizens and society, the protection of national interests in the dynamically changing risks, threats and challenges facing our country regarding the quality of life and the level of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Any other statements on behalf of parliamentary groups? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, this is not a party declaration. Just 142 years ago, a Bulgarian hung by the gallows, as the genius Botev wrote:............................................................................ We all know his name, Vasil Levski, who became a saint, into an icon and without being canonized. Sometimes I ask myself the question, and I hope some of you ask yourself this: what would happen to Levski, to Botev, if they hadn't died? Would they not have been crushed and beaten by the political commotion after the Liberation, by political deals and unclean play? Would they not have the fate of the great statesman Stefan Stambolov, cut off with his hands? In fact, the truth is that Levski and Botev are becoming nationally famous thanks to two other great Bulgarians. Now we swear by them in Levski and Botev, but let us not forget that the mother of Levski Ginka Kuncheva, his brother Petar Kunchev died in complete misery. Petar Kunchev is a participant in the Boteva reading, wounded, banished in Diyarbakir, then returned to his native Karlovo without a leg and was forced to beg. Let us not forget the Boteva Veneta, my dear, who has requested a pension from the National Assembly. And here was the preny who this Venetta is and what so this Botev has done. Perhaps that's why Levski's notebook hangs that question: People?♪ with three questions. ♪ And if everyone asks themselves if we really live in a pure and holy republic, I'm sure the answer will be painful for all of us. Therefore, before we engage in the party battles, let us be humble before Levski's death and, if we can, give him at least a little honor or, as his mother said, Ginka Kuncheva, when she learned of his death: I will not boil him wheat because I believe that my Vassil is alive. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB, RB and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other statements on behalf of parliamentary groups? I won't. We can move on to the points of our adopted work agenda. Point one: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION OF THE SELECTION OF A FOUR-TERRIED AND THREE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION RESPONSE. National Representative Miho Mihov is the importer of the Parliamentary Group Vice-President of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u32	Project! DECISION on the election of the Vice-President of the Forty - Third National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Forty-third National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Kiril Petrov Tsochev from the ABB Parliamentary Group as Vice-President of the Forty-third National Assembly. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on this proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause from BSP LB, ABB.]] The motion is accepted. Mr. Tsochev is Vice-President of the Forty-third National Assembly. The next item is: PROJECT FOR A CHANGE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF A STANDING COMMISSION. The draft decision is named for changes in the composition and management of the Energy Commission with importer Miho Mihov, Vice-President of the ABB Parliamentary Group. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Kiril Petrov Tsochev as Vice-President of the Energy Commission. 2. He elected Kiril Petrov Tsochev as a member of the Energy Commission. This is how the draft decision was submitted. I am making it clear that, with the release of the Vice-President's seat in the Commission, the respective MP remains its member, which is why he is dropping from the project point two for the election of Mr. Tsochev as a member. He's a member of the law. In this sense, the correct name and operative of the decision must look like this: Project! DECISION for changes in the management of The Energy Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Kiril Petrov Tsochev as Vice-President of the Energy Commission. It follows that he remains a member of this Commission. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The next item in our program is: ACCEPTANCE OF PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCEEDING OF CANDIDATES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICES, THE PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR HEALTH, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. A report came in from the Health Commission. Professor Tonev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u33	Madam President, honourable members of the Health Commission, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 February 2015, the Health Commission examined and discussed a draft decision adopting procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The adoption of procedural rules for the election of a manager of the National Health Insurance Fund is necessary in relation to art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and in accordance with art. 89, para. 1 and para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 19th para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act, the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be elected by the National Assembly in accordance with art. 89, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health expressed support for the proposed procedural rules and agreed on the opinion on the initiation of the selection procedure of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken on the following results, the National Assembly proposed to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering of candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund 1. Proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may be made by any parliamentary group. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Health within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals as a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) the written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex No 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for acquired higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) documents certifying acquired additional specializations and qualifications; (e) documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirement of art. 19th para. 3, p. 2 of the Health Insurance Act for professional experience in health, banking, insurance or insurance management; (f) evidence of criminality; (g) a statement in accordance with Annex 2 to the decision that the applicant has Bulgarian citizenship as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act; (h) a statement in accordance with Annex 3 to the decision that the circumstances of art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals under Section I, p. 1 and the documents referred to in Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. All data in the documents of the applicants as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, which are personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, shall be deleted. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Health on the proposed candidates, including issues to be referred to them no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. The mass media may send to the Committee on Health matters to candidates to be placed during the hearing no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Committee on Health and the corresponding e-mail. 7. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 are published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within 3 days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. III. Verification of submitted documents for admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Committee on Health shall, within 3 days of the expiry of the period referred to in Section I. 1 sends a list of candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund at the Directorate General "Civil Registration and Administrative Service" to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for a check of citizenship as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and the absence of the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. 2. The Committee on Health at its meeting prior to the hearing shall verify the documents submitted and whether the proposed candidates comply with the requirements for the appointment of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund as defined in the Health Insurance Act. 3. The Committee on Health may require additional information from both applicants and the competent authority concerned. 4. Candidates shall not be allowed to be heard who: a) do not meet the requirements of art. 19th para. Art. 3 and Art. 3. 21 of the Health Insurance Act; (b) have not submitted the documents referred to in Section I, i.e. 2. 5. Following the verification, the Health Commission shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly's website within 3 days of the meeting. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. The Committee on Health shall only hear the applicants admitted, and the order shall be determined according to the list set out in Section III. 5. 2. The hearing is public and is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Health. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the proposal for election as manager of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within 2 minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to present himself, including to supplement data from his professional biography and to present his views on the development of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within 15 minutes. 5. The opinions and questions submitted to the Committee on Health by the persons referred to in Article shall be presented in summary. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the statement for each question and opinion within 2 minutes. 6. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. Five in an exhibition in ten minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidates, including questions contained in the opinions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the exhibition for each issue is up to 2 minutes. 8. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 7 in Exhibition in 10 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Health shall draw up and submit to the National Assembly a report on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund with the content set out in art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 11. Where several candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund have been heard, the report referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10 a list of candidates who participated in the hearing shall be applied in alphabetical order of their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 12. The report of the Committee on Health on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall be made available to the Members of the National Health Insurance Fund no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the candidates will be voted and shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. V. Election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund by the National Assembly 1. The meeting, which holds the election of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Health provides the National Assembly with a report on the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer of the selection proposal in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Following the submission of the report under point (c) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3 The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the debate is concluded, candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may make speeches and answer the questions raised to them in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates for the post of Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 9. In the event that two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 10. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for 11. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex No 1 to a decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for the selection by the National Assembly... The applications themselves are provided to the report, they are standard. This is about the declarations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u34	For the stenogram, the Commission's report, together with its annexes. That way we can put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u35	I would just like to remind you that these Rules of Procedure do not ultimately differ in significant parameters from those previously adopted in the previous Rules. In other words, this is about some legal clarification that does not allow for a different interpretation. That's why we were so specific and detailed in the exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u36	Thank you, Professor. Tonev. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In search of the best rules of procedure to help us choose the best candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, I make the following proposals for editorial amendments that I provide you in writing: 1. Section I, t. 2 letter, the words................................................................................................ In the case of aid, the aid must be limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs incurred by the 2. Section III shall make the following amendments: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." The Health Committee at its pre-trial meeting shall verify the documents submitted. (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to be heard. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter 3. The following amendments shall be made to Annex 3: .) the words............................... 11............................................................... The following points are inserted after (b) points 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 shall be deleted. This is due to the fact that the proposed Rules of Choice take full account of art. 21 of the Health Insurance Act, according to which candidates for managers of the National Health Insurance Fund must terminate their employment or participation in different types of companies when applying for this position. In fact, in the text of art. 21 of the Health Insurance Act provides for this thesis in their appointment, and they also have the possibility under the Conflict of Interest Act when choosing them to react within 7 days and to be exempted from participations and incompatibilitys provided for in the special Health Insurance Act. I believe that this will enable us not to limit the proposals for candidates for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund and will ease the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Replies to that statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Dr. Raynov, after him. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, from the so-read Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly, what do we understand? Firstly, proposals for a candidate for governor of the National Health Insurance Fund may be made by the parliamentary groups by being submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Health Commission within 5 days of the adoption of these rules of procedure. The Committee on Health within three days of the expiry of the submission period shall send the list of candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund at the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the verification of citizenship, as required by art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act and the absence of the legal restriction under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. The Health Committee at its meeting, prior to the hearing, checks the documents submitted and whether the proposed candidates meet the requirements for taking up the position of the National Health Insurance Fund Manager as defined in the Health Insurance Act. After carrying out the relevant inspection, the Health Committee shall draw up the list of candidates admitted to a hearing and shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within three days of the meeting. The proposals under Section I, p. 1 and the documents under Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. The Health Committee shall only hear the applicants admitted. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] You'll hear why, be careful! The report of the Committee on Health on the outcome of the hearing of candidates shall be submitted to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting at which the candidates will be voted and published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly. So far, honourable Members, a total of 24 days, with which I do not accept the optimism that I have been listening to since one week how next week we will have an elected governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. This means, honourable Members, that 24 days the National Health Insurance Fund will be without operational guidance. This happens at the time when, at the end of the month, payments are made to agreed partners. These are pharmacies, these are hospitals. Who will submit the budget allocation for this year to Oversight? There isn't one! Who's gonna sign the employees' salaries? There isn't one! For a whole month the health system will be blocked and I want to ask here who will take responsibility for this thing? Provided that for two months everyone knows that the mandate of the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund is to expire. Secondly, there have been several letters from two weeks to the President of the National Assembly, to the President of the Health Commission, to the Minister, in which the former governor of the National Health Insurance Fund has already informed about the situation in which it will fall. So, colleagues, who will bear this responsibility? Thirdly, in the rules which so detailed the hearing, the health committee gave each candidate the opportunity to present himself, including to supplement his professional biography data and to present his views on the development of the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund in an exhibition within 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, the future governor, whoever he is, will he know in what legal environment he will work, with what additional responsibilities he will be charged with? Isn't this the first time that hospitals have fixed budgets up to 95%, despite the promises we heard here just two months ago that hospitals would receive funds no less than last year's? And the new hospitals, which signed a shock at the end of last year, the new activities of the old hospitals, which have also been squeaky signed in the last two months of last year, have anyone considered the financial statement and how will it affect the payments to hospitals this year? What about the changes to the Health Insurance Act that have already been introduced by the Council of Ministers? They are already in parliament and we will see them tomorrow at first reading in the Health Commission. There, in addition to the undisputed proposals, such as the return of the negotiations of prices and volumes between the NHIF and the word organizations; the return of the arbitration committees, I use the return, because these are things that were in effect until 2010, when they were cancelled by the previous GERB government, does the Council of Ministers realize that by this act, with this proposal of the Draft for amendment of the existing Health Insurance Act, the four-year attempts of the four health ministers of GERB in health policy? We're getting expensive experiments of the kind of trial error. In addition, however, in the changes to the Health Insurance Act proposed, there are other proposals that are interesting, I would say dangerous. This is the 5% increase in the amount of the insurance income on which the state pays insurance to the persons under art. 40, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act from the beginning of 2016, which essentially retains the privileged position of the state until 2025. The state continues to be in debt to the health system and in particular to the NHIF, after in December 2010 in an unprecedented way even in European practice nationalizes nearly 2 billion of the Bulgarians' money for health. In this way, the state continues to violate the foundations of solidarity in the health insurance model. With the obligation of persons with suspended social security rights to recover them after the payment of all due health insurance contributions since 2000, the Institute of Paid-up Public Debts has been violated. In this way, the State abdicates its responsibility for the timely collection of the non-imported health contributions against the violation of the legal rights and interests of its citizens. Something new! According to the current law, the basic package of health insurance activities is financially guaranteed by the NHIF. What is going to happen here with the proposals that are being put into place, dividing the basic and the additional, which will pay the Cashier, who will pay the extra? Who will come out to explain to the voters that what they have received today with this contribution, tomorrow they will receive half, and in order to get back the things they have received so far, they will have to pay a second time? What about waiting lists? Who's gonna sign the rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u40	On the Project Decision!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u41	Who will determine which patient will be treated now and who will be waiting? Do you think the Bulgarian doctor wants to play the role of the Lord God?! Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u42	On the subject, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u43	Finally, the transfer of the powers to determine the list of diseases for which the NHIF pays medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes, but the supervision of the National Health Insurance Fund does not at all correspond to the competence of the supervision of the NHIF. The definition of the list is an essential element of drug policy in the country and, as we know, it is part of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u44	Dr. Raynov, let me remind you that this topic is the adoption of procedural rules for the election of a governor of the NHIF, not for a list of medicines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u45	Finally, I'm graduating. The supervision of the NHIF increases by two people from the quota of the state, with which it will become more than 50%.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u46	It's a different project.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u47	This is in fact the holding and nationalisation of the NHIF. This, together with the fixed budgets, will put an end to the insurance model. After 15 years of trying, the system is back where it started in 1999, and this is budget funding. Simply put: The Union of Democratic Forces began, reformers brought it back and proved the bankruptcy of their policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u48	On the subject, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u49	In this situation, honourable Members, is there any need for the NHIF with its more than 2500 employees, or does it need the MH, which has already transferred almost all its functions? For Mrs. Atanasova, the "MZ" means the "health sector." May the future director give himself a clear picture of the things that await him. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u50	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. For a personal explanation, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Raynov, I think I know what the abbreviation of the Ministry of Health is, but unlike you, I also know what point is being discussed in the Chamber of the National Assembly, namely the rules of procedure for the election of the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. Everything you said probably makes some sense, but one we can look for when discussing other bills, such as the Health Insurance Act, which has not even been examined in the Health Commission yet, so keep the supporting points for another time and for another place. I think there's no need for unnecessary politicisation now. We will now vote and comment on the Rules of Election of the Governor of the NHIF, and on rules that will give publicity and transparency to such a procedure. Not to take you back to the time when the NHIF manager was replaced in a non-pardon manner with a party-friendly candidate.............. the current governor's........................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u52	Was that a personal explanation?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u53	Well, it's personal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. To speak, the People's Representative Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u55	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The problem facing the Bulgarian Parliament, faced by Bulgarian citizens and all who are involved with the health system, is with the legal vacuum in which we find ourselves from the date 12 February to the minimum after 21 days in which the new governor of NHIF will be elected. The current problem has been notified in due time and the management of the National Assembly and the Chairman of the Health Insurance Commission, namely that the term of office of the current Governor of the Casa Mrs. Rumyana Todorova expired on 12 February 2015, i.e. from that date the National Health Insurance Fund has no manager and there is no person who can carry out the operational activity. What do I mean? These are all payments to all medical care contractors, to all patients who need expensive treatment. In practice, the health system is blocked due to, to put it mildly, neglecting, I would say the carelessness that the management majority has shown in the Health Commission and, to some extent, excuse the parliamentary leadership. Dear colleagues, tomorrow the National Health Insurance Fund has to pay the pharmacies. As of next week begins payment to all involved in outpatient care. That's also the GPs, the doctors who specialize in hospital care. Next up is the hospital payment, then the dentists' payment. In the meantime, protocols should be signed for people who use costly treatments. These are the cancer patients and other patients who should not interrupt their treatment. The problem is that these people can't take their protocols and they can't supply vital drugs. That's the problem. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] I guess some of you don't care at all. It's important to be in power. I'm saying this because you're reacting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u56	The Chief of the Cashier doesn't sign the protocols.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u57	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u58	Because you're reacting. After all, the most important institution.. make reference to the law and to the regulations governing the activities of the Health Insurance Fund, the head of the National Health Insurance Fund signs these protocols.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u59	He's not signing!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u60	Signed, including the protocols for costly treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u61	That's not true! There are committees!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u62	Including! Plus hospital payments, plus dentist payments, plus doctor payments in hospital care. And I ask: where is the Minister of Health? Is he interested in this problem, which affects the patients in Bulgaria, affects those working in hospital care? Who's gonna pay their wages? How are they gonna pay the suppliers? Dear colleagues, the choice will actually happen in at least 21 days. I ask: who will take responsibility for blocking the entire health system in this period?! What needs to be done is at least to submit a timely draft decision to extend the powers of either Governor Rumyana Todorova or one of the deputy governors, or to whomever you wish, but to have a person with legal authority to sign, to carry out the operational activity. Because if Rumyana Todorova does now, she will come into legal contradictions. In practice, it is not clear whether all the actions it will take without having a mandate will subsequently be declared null and void. What responsibility can the Cashier's management take if it acts without authority?! She has notified Parliament and the Health Commission in particular. I think that here the President of the Health Commission should give an answer, but most of all he must express his attitude to the Minister of Health, who, in such an important debate, is absent from the plenary. If he's in a PR operation in an ambulance, if he's doing anything else, I can't guess. His place, however, is here as a minister, not as a person from the ministry of the PR instead of the Ministry of Health. Please, Mr. Chairman, invite the Health Minister to take up his duties and participate in one of the important debates, namely the way in which the next Governor of the Health Insurance Fund will be elected. To answer the question what is his opinion who should now carry out the urgent actions related to the treatment of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. We'll invite the Minister of Health. - What's the line? Statements? National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, today's point is the choice of head of the Health Insurance Fund. Here we have heard some political statements that are not justified on absolutely no facts. I would like to remind some of those present here that after they have drafted the so-called government, our representative of the Health Insurance Fund has been removed unceremoniously, at no point at all and at no so-called curricula from the ones listed here by the previous colleague. I would like to remind those present that when Dr. Tsekov was removed, there was no such problem after four months in the Health Insurance Fund had not been appointed to his place. I would like to remind the previous and facts that cannot be forgotten, namely that, according to the personal contract of the current head of the Health Insurance Fund, after the expiry of its term, it continues to fulfil its obligations accordingly until the choice of a new one. Thus, the refusal to fulfil its obligations should in no way create tension, as it is arranged and it is said exactly how the work of the Health Insurance Fund can continue. On the left hand side, we are reminded that they are extremely concerned about personal doctors, medical institutions and pharmacies, and at the same time trying to strain the tension without even calculating when exactly could become the real choice of the new head of the Health Insurance Fund. And to be exact, in an optimal job, this could happen on March 4th for some who consider 20, 21 days. I think that following all the rules read here could have been chosen a little earlier. From this tribune again, we are afraid of upheavals, what will happen, and clearly and simply right now the head of the Health Insurance Fund, fulfilling his own personal contract, can and should continue to work. So any arguments on the left-hand side of what happens in case she refuses to perform her duties, may safely sub-manager perform this function, and if he refuses the Supervisory Board can take a decision and be elected a sub-manager. I believe that there is no need to be intimidated by this tribune of colleagues who honestly and conscientiously carry out their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Dr. Ivanov. That's how we figured it out. I'm just asking you, don't let the colleagues, viewers and listeners listen to us for the last time. Last year, when Dr. Tsekov was replaced with Dr. Todorova, there were no four months without a manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. So be a little more specific with the reminders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u67	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Any other lines? I won't. Dr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u68	Mr. President, honourable Members, I believe that Dr. Raynov was somewhat accurate about this vacuum, which could have been obtained, but the essence of what he said from the stand was a purely political statement. And I ask that all Members, from now on, speak directly on the subject of the election of a new Chairman of the NHIF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u69	And even more precisely, the rules of this choice. Here you go, Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u70	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am incredibly surprised that people who are far from health care cared at the moment how to pay for pharmacies and how to pay for hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u71	That is not the subject of the item on the agenda. By the rules, Mr. Kuchukov, I expect you to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u72	Yes, I'd like to speak precisely by the rules, Madam President. This is not at all, first of all, a item on the agenda; secondly, this does not concern at the moment the election of a manager of the National Health Insurance Fund. The National Health Insurance Fund will not enter into a management vacuum for a simple reason.. in the management contract of Dr. Todorova there is a clause...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u73	Mr. Kuchukov, this is beyond the subject of today's rules. We're discussing the rules of choice. What will result from this is a matter of reasoning that is beyond this point. Please, by the book. You have suggestions, you don't agree with them. In that sense, I expect you to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u74	On the contrary, there are no proposals because the Rules were discussed yesterday and no one had anything against the Rules. I mind that things are being discussed that have nothing to do with the rules of procedure. And that is why I started my speech by saying that there is no vacuum in the Health Insurance Fund, and there is no reason why the Rules of Choice that we will now adopt should be accepted so dramatically. Article 9 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts states that this contract, which Dr. Todorova has, has the power of law, and that means that these 24 days, which are adopted in the Rules of Election of the New Governor, will not fatally affect the National Health Insurance Fund. I think it is better for the new governor to have the opportunity to present his ideas, to present his views, to be widely discussed, and not to be afraid here that he will become an apocalypse in these twenty-several days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u75	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members of the Left. At the previous meeting of the Committee on Health, the Minister of Health was present, your colleagues who represent you in this Commission asked him directly what happened after the date came on the 18th or 17th, which was the last day of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u77	This is not the subject of today's point, Mr. Abu Melih. We're discussing the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u78	Okay, thank you, Madam President. I accept that. The answer from the minister was that there would be no vacuum. This topic of selecting the head of the National Health Insurance Fund should not be inserted into the political aspect, as if something unique is happening, or there will be cataclysm in Bulgarian healthcare. I won't! There's a procedure that needs to go through, to have a new head of the Health Insurance Fund. The payments in the meantime won't stop, they'll continue. Don't do anything, because you're actually just making things up. There's no problem you can work on. My request is: ask yourself your representatives to the Commission what happens there before you go out on the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u79	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u80	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! I say dearly because the purpose of these Rules is to speed up the choice and not to slow down. I mean, by every minute, not voting the rules, we're slowing down the election of the NHIF governor. I understand Dr. Raynov's concern, but since yesterday he voted for these Rules, I believe that he will also vote for them on two consecutive days. The third thing I would like to emphasise is that we are not currently discussing the programme of the government and the Health Commission in the next 20 years, but we are discussing some elementary Rules that are subject to consensus. Otherwise, all other stories pass through the sphere, whether the glass is half full or half empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Tonev. - What's the line? There's a line on Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u82	Madam President, honourable Members! Honourable Professor. Tonev, yesterday we voted for the Rules, today we will also support the Rules. The problem, which I think has already become clear to all of us, is impossible to choose a director earlier than 20 and a few days. There's gonna be a vacuum! It's already there. Dr. Todorova has not been allowed to sign anything since the 12th. Someone has to take responsibility for the people who get their money, but a month late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u83	Second line? I won't. A hole? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. There were editorial proposals made. First, we will put to the vote the proposals for editorial amendments, which Mrs Daritkova presented in detail. It's also written for the transcript. We are voting on the proposals for editorial amendments made by Mrs Daritkova. They voted 127 MPs: for 107, they have no objection, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the full draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Health, and the procedure for the selection by the National Assembly on the Commission report, together with the newly adopted editorial amendments and annexes, an integral part of the draft decision on the Commission's report. Vote 127 MPs: 125, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u84	On behalf of the Reformation Block Group on the grounds of art. 61, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose a recess of the meeting in 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u85	I'm announcing 30 minutes. Abort the meeting. (After the interruption.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u86	Colleagues, please take your seats. The meeting is continuing. The next item in our weekly program is: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR DISCRIMINATION PROTECTION. Reports have been received from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. We will first hear the report of the leading Commission. Mr. Velchev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! First, we need an admission procedure. I see that there are not enough people in the Chamber, but we still need to put it to the vote, as we must admit Mr. Lazar Lazarov.. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Irina Ivanova. Please put the admission to the Chamber to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u88	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Did everyone get a vote? Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the guests. We're listening to the report, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u89	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against discrimination, No 402-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. At a regular meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 402-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Irina Ivanova, Head of Department of the Department of the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Assistance. The President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and Mr. Baki Huseinov, Vice-President of the same Commission, as well as representatives of NGOs, are also present. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov. The draft law shall be introduced in respect of the implementation of commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria to transpose into national law Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the application of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in employment and occupation. The bill proposes an amendment to art. 9 of the law and creating a new t. 17 in § 1 of its additional provisions. With the proposed new version of art. 9 The text shall be terminated and translated into the relevant provisions of Directive 2006/54/EC and other anti-discrimination directives. In the current text of art. 9 The plaintiff is placed in a disadvantage.. must prove discrimination, and in the proposed new version the defendant must prove that the principle of equal treatment is not violated, which is the fairer solution of the problem. In the current law, equal treatment of men and women is laid down in art. 4, para. 1 where the signs are indicated to allow discrimination and any occurrence of inequality, including by reference to the..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The proposed addition to the law is the creation of t. 17 in § 1 of the Additional Provisions, which regulates that within the meaning of art. 4, para. 1 indication of the gender change. The representatives of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination submitted their views on the Bill, in which their support for the bill is fully justified. In the discussion, opinions were expressed in support of the Bill and the need to transpose the requirements of Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council into national law. The positive opinions on the draft law by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria were also discussed. An opinion was also expressed against the creation of the new item. 17 in the Additional Provisions. The majority of the members of the committee supported the reasons of the importer under the bill and said that the proposed change of law is in the direction of the pro-European development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the harmonisation of our internal legislation with European legislation. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 12 votes, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers, and 4 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 402-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u90	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. We will now hear the report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Tanchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the meeting held on 28 January 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. Mr. Lazar Lazarov took part in the meeting of the Commission and Mrs. Irina Ivanova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Head of Department of the Department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Policy for the People with Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Assistance. This bill aims to specify the requirements of Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the application of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and occupation in respect of protection against discrimination in the event of gender change and the transfer of the burden of proof. In response to an inquiry EU PILOT 4849/13/JUST by the European Commission, which was approved at the meeting of the Council on European Affairs to the Council of Ministers held on 17 June 2013, the Republic of Bulgaria undertook to amend the Law on Protection against Discrimination by the end of 2013. The request concerns identified discrepancies in the transposition into national law of Directive 2006/54/EC. The European Commission also raises the same questions for Bulgaria in an inquiry EU PILOT 3526/12/JUST on transposition into national law of Directive 2004/113/EC on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women as regards access to goods and services and the provision of goods and services. In the current Law on Protection against Discrimination the equal treatment of men and women is explicitly regulated in art. 4, para. 1 where the signs on which discrimination is not allowed, including........................................................................................................ In response to the European Commission's request, the proposed bill provides for the creation of a point. 17 to § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law, which states that within the meaning of art. 4, para. 1 indication of the gender change. In relation to the transfer of the burden of proof, the bill proposes a new version of art. 9 of the DPA, according to which the discriminated against person, the applicant or the applicant, is exempt from the burden of proof when presenting facts on the basis of which discrimination can be assumed. In this case, it is the defendant who must prove that there is no breach of the principle of equal treatment. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Protection against Discrimination aim to achieve compliance with the provisions of European Union law on the issues posed and to strengthen the established legislative safeguards for protection against discrimination in cases of gender change and the transfer of the burden of proof in cases of discrimination. The bill does not provide for a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposes (with 10 votes for abstentions and 2 votes for abstentions) of the National Assembly to adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 402-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. On behalf of the importers? There will be no introduction of the Bill. Debates are open. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Patriotic Front, I would disagree with the adoption of such additions and amendments to the Law on Protection against Discrimination for several reasons. I am a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. There I voted against these things, and I will explain briefly why the people's representation should not support such changes in the Law on Protection against Discrimination. First of all, the worrying thing is that in art. 9 is changed and the weight is reversed. In other words, anyone can go and say: "I was discriminated against! " without applying any evidence and the opposing party must apply evidence that she is innocent. Turning the practice around for us is incomprehensible. Perhaps in Europe there are other views on these problems, but I can't explain the fact that someone could blame someone without any evidence?! This is unacceptable for us. But the more fragile is in the Additional Provisions, where the text is proposed. Art. 17, art. 4, para. 1 includes the cases of gender change. Where in the European directives are we obliged to include such a text in the Bulgarian Law on Protection against Discrimination? The experts in the Commission have reported that they do, but I have reviewed a lot of directives and I have not seen anyone obliged us to include such a thing anywhere. How long will we allow the Bulgarian laws to have similar terms and degradation?! After all, do we not have God - fear at least?! The Law on Protection against Discrimination clearly states " and I will read to you very briefly: according to art. 4, para. 1 all signs that concern discrimination are expressed. There it is written: "Sex, race, nationality, ethnicity, human genome, citizenship, origin, religion, faith, and others." And it ends with this: as well as any other signs. The Bulgarian Law on Protection against Discrimination clearly states that everyone based on gender or other signs will be able to seek their rights. So for us from the Patriotic Front, this change, which takes place in the Law on Protection against Discrimination, is unacceptable, especially in this part of it. Therefore, I call on you not to allow such texts to enter into the Bulgarian legislation. In the end, there will be others who will be harmed by this logic. Well, the people in Bulgaria who have both sexes will not say what they are called in society, they do not appear. Let's turn them on, too. What about the people without an ear? Can we solve all the cases?! The Law clearly states: gender, race, citizenship, other things that are listed, including other signs. Why are we pretending to be bigger, how can I say, Europeans, are humanists from what's actually allowed by law right now? Yes, I see that these transpositions were proposed in 2013 when it managed the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and perhaps they are at the bottom of this additional provision that they included. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] At the Commission meeting we saw them vote, they supported such a thing. For DPS it is very important in Bulgarian laws and in Bulgaria everything to be corrupted and everything to be pseudoliberal because then Bulgaria is weak, Bulgarians and Bulgarian parties are weak, and they do what they want. It's a fact. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I call on all MPs to have God's fear and not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u94	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, this is about the transposition of a European directive, only in theory and practice the proof of negative legal facts is not unambiguous. There is also the ICC's Interpretation Decision No 1 of 2014 on the question whether they are subject to evidence of negative facts, and here we change the burden of proof. Since the party justifies its claim to the non-existent of a material relationship, it should not establish the authenticity of its negative legal statement and should not bear the burden of proof that the legal facts which give rise to it do not exist because it is really impossible to exhaust the whole set of possibilities and a set of legal facts leading in an undisputed manner to a definite conclusion that this legal fact does not exist. That is, the change in the burden of proof in both the practice and in the Civil Procedure Code is not settled in civil justice at all, but so far the courts have not allowed proof of negative facts either. In this regard, I think that the proposed text of the Bill would be in a collation with the practice of courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u96	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Notev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, with some inconvenience I stand before you for the following reasons. It seems to me that if there were to be an expert analysis of the proposal put to your attention, it should be accompanied by a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs. You can see that, from the outset, the speeches concern purely legal disputes over the institutions of law, which are irrevocably established in the caselaw, and there is no way to reverse them so lightly. Secondly, I am somewhat uncomfortable because here in this Chamber, we are commenting on an issue which is very different from the vicious political issue. Once again, we are facing the situation of the important issue for society to be discussed in front of, at a rally of people who insist on our specific will and decision on a given item on the agenda of society, and we are dealing with things that, in underwork, unfinished form, are offered to our attention. This rather, Madam President, to the way the bill has been allocated. There was a place and had to pass through the Legal Commission because, listening to the Commission report submitted by Mr. Velchev, I find a discrepancy in the purely legal aspect of his findings that here we are faced with a proposal to change only the evidence burden transferred to the plaintiff without, however, showing the depth of the change that is proposed and which is based on other essential issues in the hypothesis of the newly proposed text of art. 9 which create grounds for substantial reserves. See what this is about when comparing the current text that would do all these tasks and achieve those goals that we are talking about. The change in terminology is outlined in the change of three terms in the text... between the old and the new text of art. 9. The current text requires the plaintiff to prove the existence of facts suggesting discrimination. Now it's enough for him to just point them out. By now, we had to have established grounds for having clearly identified the subject matter of the case and a position that the defendant could take. Now there's no such thing and it's not required. There should have been a conclusion by now based on these facts. Notice, in conclusion, nothing more than a verdict, not an act that did not take effect a judgment. It's just a conclusion. And now it's enough guessing. Have we not learned from the consequences of the introduction of such legal technique, for example in the Code of Criminal Procedure, when we have repeatedly seen the consequences of this Until now, it has been required to state that the right of one who claims to be discriminated against has been violated. However, you can now note the fact that a principle of protection against discrimination has been violated. Principle! We are, in a specific case, entering into a general philosophical dispute, defending principles of law, and in each particular case, as I have already pointed out, with a vague subject and with undefined, undefined boundaries of the particular dispute. Why do I claim that the question is strictly legal and technical? Because in the current framework, we have full protection on all issues raised in the Bill in the way importers put them. We have a Law which, according to art. 3 protects against discrimination all individuals. It's in the current text. I'm reading the current article. 3 - Acting in accordance with Art. 2 The purpose of the Law is to provide each person with the right to equality before the law, equality in the treatment of opportunities for participation in public life, effective protection against discrimination. What do transsexuals cease to be individuals or are beings of another biological species? If anyone claims it, it's the importers of this bill. Taking them out in a special category, they discriminate and insult them. Notice, I do not see here grounds for proceedings before the Commission for protection against discrimination. There's a representative here. How do we get out of this trap with honor? By the way, the position of the Ataka Party is consistent in relations both with the Law and with the institution that is called to carry it out. We find this separation by a corresponding sign clearly stated in the Law as a negative, as a forbidden sign of the separation of humankind and race, of an attack on the dignity of people and of citizens. This will be our consistent position, including when we accept this Commission's reports, when we will once again state that it does no work, that it only spends the taxpayer's money. But these are questions we have listened to and are about to be said. By the way, the current statement and our current position is that we have a Law that does not need correction and supplement. The proposal is not due to the introduction of terminological equality between the requirements of the directives that are listed and what the importers of the law offer us. If so, let us do some philological or any expertise, the translation should be clear and specific, but I say that these findings that I have shared with you and which are legal and technical absurd cannot be due to terminological discrepancies, cannot be introduced into such directives, with all respect, and somewhat with reservations to European legislation and its applicability on our soil and on our territory. We have these norms, we have these laws, we have listed cases where specific solutions and acts are not discrimination. They are detailed in art. 7. Nineteen points say what's not discrimination. The Law should be able to be applied in its current form by average lawyers, without much preparation. The proposal under consideration is causing unnecessary tension. I go back to thinking that wasting parliamentary time by considering these proposals in underworked, incomplete form is a liability, a negative for us all, and for the management of the Assembly. I demand a more detailed and deeper reading so that you can see exactly what we are trying to do under the motto of Europe so wants. This template, this cliché should now cease to serve as a curtain that does not imply a thorough study in order to stop acting on it and to vote on meaningless texts to be written on the back of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u98	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kardzhaliev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! To be honest, I am surprised to come out on this platform, given what the three previous speakers said, and what he wrote in the reporter I think it was Mr. Tomislav Donchev that the bill was developed in fulfillment of commitments arising from Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, and further specifically described are the directives which implement this Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. In my view, the proposed bill is one of the necessary steps for the accurate transposition of EU anti-discrimination legislation and more... to achieve fuller compliance with the objectives of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. For this reason, I believe that it should be supported. Within the framework of the Forty-second National Assembly, when this bill was examined, I also insisted on it. What exactly is this about? I am far from going into legal dissection and detailed description, as the previous speaker said, regarding the correct application on the basis of accurate translations, based on precise requirements from the European Union. In my opinion, the directive provides for a light proof standard. This is also transposed into the Bulgarian Law in favour of victims of discrimination. They are required to show facts from which an assumption can be made, i.e. merely to despise the existence of discrimination, then the burden is transferred to the opposing party, which should prove that the principle of equal treatment has not been violated. I understand the purpose of this directive, and I also understand the introduction of the Law on the Council of Ministers. The aim is to improve the situation of potential victims of discrimination. This is an approach which I recognise ensures a fairer balance between the interests of victims of discrimination and the interests of the party in question. That is, this is what is called the reverse of the burden of proof. The direction of the search for evidence is reversed. Until now, the plaintiff has provided evidence that there is grounds for unequal treatment, and once we have adopted this bill, if we accept it, the defendant will prove from now on that the principle of equal treatment in relation to a particular case has not been violated. This is a European approach which, in my opinion, and my parliamentary group provides a balance between the interests of the victim and the interests of the opposing party. And that, at least in this respect, should not be contested. As far as art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, there are indeed explicitly regulated signs on which discrimination and inequality are not allowed. The recognition is also there, I think is one of the 19 criteria. Now the scope is expanding. I accept the importer's arguments, and the gender change mark will also be included. All of this is for the purpose of complying with the provisions of European Union law and, according to last year's reference, there has been no country since 2014, a member of the European Union that has not corrected its domestic legislation. I will further say why I am convinced to say this. This is a situation that we must support, regardless of the conservative, reserved approach to the subject, regardless, I can even say, from the dislike of some individuals to the differences in general in Bulgarian society. Otherwise, according to the contract concluded by the Republic of Bulgaria, we should not be members of the European Union. We must find that the world is obviously moving forward in its attitude and assessments on these matters regardless of our will. Our will is whether we follow this world or not. When I mentioned that this Bill has its history in the Bulgarian Parliament, I remember last year, within the framework of the forty-second National Assembly I reported this Bill within a meeting. I've been tempted to share my memories ever since. This bill would have been passed and forgotten even then. He went relatively unhindered at first reading in both the leading Commission and the plenary. At second reading, unfortunately, this bill showed something vicious for Bulgarian parliamentaryism, namely, I can call it, self-target and non-constructive opposition. At a second reading in the revoting of the last paragraph 47 MPs from GERB, after seeing the lack of enough MPs from the ruling majority, voted against the party and the abstentions a total of 47 of them, although it is in the implementation of the European directive, despite the pro-European profile of the party. That's not how the bill was passed. The desire to sabotage a law submitted by Plamen Oresharski, no matter what the arguments were, these opposition passions dominated the desire of the importer. Another is the question of the arguments of 11 MPs from Coalition for Bulgaria then. I am tempted to comment on these reasons and their impact on the declared European profile of a modern left-wing party. I won't do it! I have neither inner support nor desire nor cause for it today at least. I'll just say this. A single argument is sufficient to support this bill, namely our full membership in the European Union. This membership also requires that in Bulgarian society there is no atmosphere of intolerance towards individuals with different sexual orientation. Moreover, pluralism is the foundation of the contemporary democratic Bulgarian society, and this bill dictates precisely in this direction such imperatives. Both in the mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly, and now the DPS has been and will be a follower of a modern liberal party with a clear, unwavering Euro-Atlantic position, and I appeal to everyone for such a position this time, without prejudice and without temptation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? First line, please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u101	Madam President! Mr. Kardzhaliev, from the Patriotic Front we do not want to go to a world where customs, traditions, weddings, birth of children are not respected and so on. I think that many of the countries have already understood their mistakes in recent years in Europe, when they have encouraged such nonsense. I would be very interested to see you go to your constituents and explain to them how nice gender change is, how this gender change should enter, including the Bulgarian laws. They'll understand you, I guess they're not conservative. They're liberals. The most interesting thing to tell you about the debate that was in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The three representatives of the DPS supported this Bill on the grounds that we are talking specifically that there should be a change of gender that they could not stop evolution and support evolution. [[DPS lines.]] Explain to your constituents how you support evolution. Let's see how much they agree with you. Go... [[Reply from DPS.]] For you, yes, it's understandable why you're calling. Doubts have been around for a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u102	Please don't go into lines with each other! Follow the rules of procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u103	What I am calling you all to: do not support such changes in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u104	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u105	I'll be brief, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Angelov, you misunderstand. Read the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. It's not about evolution, it's about evolution of human thought. A moment ago, I tried to tell you in detail about my worldview regarding these matters. One thing I'm tempted to tell you. Every man in our time has his own worldview, his own horizons. When they get narrowed down, that becomes a point of view. The narrower the horizon, the closer the world view, the faster a person's point of view is made. I advise you, too, but this is also an appeal to everyone in the contemporary Bulgarian Parliament. Let us expand our horizons, let our worldview not be so narrow. Let us understand these topics from this point of view that, provided that there is no pluralism in Bulgarian society, it has no right to be called a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Mr. Chukolov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I say ladies and gentlemen with all the condition, because after the adoption of this decision the gender change in Bulgaria will be legalized. You say: "Thus they did in Europe, let us do so in Bulgaria." Well, when we tell you what the minimum income in Europe is, what are the minimum pensions in Europe, then you say, "Well, that can't happen." Let's now use this precedent of yours, this speech of yours, and simply not accept this directive from 2006 by the European Parliament! What we need to know is that while Europe is doing gay parades, a Islamic state is saying how it will take Europe and Islamize it. With this change, as I see it from the speeches, is about to be adopted, we will simply allow that. The importer is the Council of Ministers. You remember in the past the National Assembly was also submitted a similar document. Back then, thanks to us, this bill was rejected by Ataka. It was rejected! The Council of Ministers, for which the Council of Ministers, by the way, voted and you, representatives of the Patriotic Front, is the importer. Will you go out here on the stand and say, as you said for example, Deputy Minister Orhan Ismailov, I think it was: "We will withdraw our support if he is appointed. Get out here and tell me! Your leaders to come out here and say: If this is accepted, if this perversion is allowed in Bulgaria, we will withdraw the support because we are principled. If you don't, you'll be the opposite of principle. Where are your co-chairs? Currently, he and Goranov are agreeing on what to do to accept this billion-dollar loan, which we will talk about in a moment. What is it really like for us to comply with everything we need from Europe? Just to destroy our values and Christian, if you will, Muslim values. Does the Koran say anything about transsexuals? I don't believe it's in the Koran. What will happen when we adopt this amendment and who actually says a bad word against transsexuals will be subjected to these blows, to this humiliation to go to the Commission on discrimination and to explain what he really wanted and what he didn't want. Imagine the situation: a reporter goes to the priest and asks him what he thinks about transsexuals. I know what the priest will say, and that will be right. And he says that thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u108	Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u109	Yeah. He'll say his opinion. Then every priest in Bulgaria falls under the blows of this law if he has to answer what he thinks about it. I urge you not to allow this thing. Let us not allow this trend that we have in Europe and Bulgaria to continue. Gay parades are made every year in Bulgaria. From the Patriotic Front, I'll mention to you again. You're pleading against these perversions. Your representative at the Legal Commission "Hristian Mitev" is said to reject the proposed bill by "Attack" not to have gay parades on the streets of Bulgaria. I will now read what his arguments are: "This is an excessive measure because gay parades are not a public danger" said the representative of NFSB Hristian Mitev of the Legal Commission on 23 January 2015. You come out here, nicely, the grumbles of this tribune, at the same time you support the government, which brings these things to parliament. It's hypocrisy and you know it. My appeal to the importers who are there at the bottom of the room: get out here on the stand, and just say the following words:.. We withdraw this bill because it is also contrary to Christian values, contrary to the law............................ as my colleague Yavor Notev here has wonderfully developed this legal argument. Withdraw it and just forget about this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, if you have a champion in hypocrisy, these are undoubtedly the representatives of the party "Attack." I am pleased that in the current statement at least it made it clear that they were part of the previous government, together with the DPS and BSP, something which they publicly deny that they differ in their public appearances. However, what has been stated by our representative does not need any interpretation. We, unlike you gentlemen of Ataka, are not people made of prints. There is no reason to have any barracks with us, and if there was a representative who expressed an unpositive opinion, I would like to point out that he did. After all, we are people who have come up with clear ideas and I think we are realizing them well. If you had at least a gram of responsibility, first, when we voted on the agenda, you, who were in this House, would have voted on the postponement of the debate on the loan. Isn't that right? You didn't. There's some games again, you're negotiating with someone again. What we say, we do, and in this case we say that we are against the adoption of this law in this form and we will show it with our vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Chukolov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that you hold your points of reference to who she was with in the government, with whom she was not. You supported this government. In the previous government, "Attack" voted against. But the prints are so imposed that you prefer to believe what your media say, not what actually happened in this room. [[Noise and glad tidings.]] As far as your position is concerned, this vote is in black and white. Representatives in the Legal Commission say: "What here to restrict gay parades?." At the same time, your representative is standing there, close to you. When we suggested that there should be a moratorium on the construction of mosques in Bulgaria, he voted against. If it seemed to him wrong, he voted against it. So stop this hypocrisy. Stop this hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debate and move on to voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination with the Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 67, against 24, abstention 13. The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u115	Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to re-vote. Colleagues, we remind you: this is an important issue. You will also have to give answers to voters, not only to your leaders of parliamentary groups, but also to voters. So think about it. If you wish, vote on your conscience and let us not accept the text they offer us. We won't be angry with Europe, we won't be bombed, nothing bad will happen. Believe me, I'm comforting you from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u116	Restrain the procedure, Mr. Chukolov, please. Thank you. It's a re-vote. Vote 112 MPs: 77, against 25, abstention 10. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[(Noise and lines, glad tidings in the hall.) When showing the results on the panel of voting in groups, one Member of Parliament from "Attack" has voted for "Attack.")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u117	Who? Who? Who?! [[Happy excitement, single applause, noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u118	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u119	Come in for the procedure, Mr. Chukolov. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u120	Mrs. Tsacheva, I see in this room such an unhealthy, idiotic laugh. [[Laughter in GERB]] which so nicely makes you shine internally, however, Madam President, I am doing a procedure for this electronic voting system. [[(Sarah!) (Sarah!) (Sarah!) (Sarah!)]] It's ridiculous, it's absurd, I say again, someone in this room and to imagine that someone from Ataka would support such nonsense. [[Laughter and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] You know that perfectly well. Madam President, my procedure is as follows. I want you to order a check on this system, who's in charge of it, and who's allowed this crap. [[shouts "Eee! " by GERB]] change this vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u121	The system has read Mr. Yavor Notev's voice. He has the opportunity to state for the transcript that he did not vote this way. How is Mr. Notev's voice accounted for? It doesn't make sense that Mr. Notev voted for...................... after explicitly saying he would vote against......................................................... Mr. Notev, just ask for the transcript of how you voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u122	Thank you, Madam President, for your opportunity. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They gave me the wrong card, now it's... Today is a day of error.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u123	Please, no insulting qualifications from the court! Colleagues, let's give Mr. Notev the opportunity! We'll time it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u124	They're gonna bring a map. My fellow Members, I have made my position clear to a Member of Parliament, to a lawyer and to a citizen. There is no way to accept that I have changed, thanks to the debate that has taken place, my view. I voted strongly against both of them in the revoting. I can't explain my mistake. I ask that my vote be taken into account according to my will against the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, to present the report. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Time Mrs. Yordanova, no map.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u126	♪ I can't believe Regarding the Draft Law on the ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer and Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P.L.C., Societe General and UniCredit Bank AG as Organizer and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Agency Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer and Citybank N.A., branch London, as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citygroup Global Markets Deutscheland AG in the capacity of Registrator, Plastic Agent and Agent for the Transfer on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000 000 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015 and on the Act to take over the capacity of the Republic of Bulgaria in respect of the European Union for the Standing Committee on the Global Programme for the Conservation of Bulgaria, signed on the Conservation and Financing Programme of the European Union for the Framework Programme for the European Union for the European Union for the financial year 6 000-2015 of the financial bonds, on the European Union for the financial year 2015, the financial year 2015-2015 Programme for the financial year 2016, as the financial year 2016, as regards to be amended as regards the financial year 2016. At a meeting held on 12 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Vladislav Goranov The bill was presented by Mr. Goranov. The purpose of the signed contracts is to establish a medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets, regulating obligations and relationships between countries, respectively future organisation and issuance of government securities within the programme. The medium-term programme provides the Republic of Bulgaria as an issuer with the possibility of applying flexibility in choosing a funding structure in respect of markets, instruments, currencies and temporaryity, in line with the market situation for issuance. The contracts establishing the medium-term programme set out several restrictive parameters for debt instruments that may be issued under this programme. The maximum nominal amount of debt that can be taken under the programme is 8 billion. EUR, the total volume of instalments for each relevant year will be limited to the limits for the acquisition of government debt in the annual laws on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the maximum maturity of the securities to be issued will be up to 30 years. For the needs of the ratification process and whatever practice is required, the documentation also indicates a maximum bond rate of up to 10 percent, which significantly exceeds the current interest rates on the Bulgarian bonds. The same is done in order not to give guidance on the market for interest rates on new bonds. The standard maximum values of the parameters of the medium-term programme provided for in the documentation may be changed only after prior legal sanction of the National Assembly. The specific structuring of future transactions under the medium-term programme (mature and currency structure) will be carried out during the marketing process, after receiving information about the investor demand of the Bulgarian sovereign debt and will be in line with the repayment profile of the debt. The funds received from the implementation of the medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets through the disposal of future bond issuances will be essential when providing the necessary financial resources in the period 2015-2017 for the refinancing of public debt, to cover expected budget deficits, as well as to ensure the level of fiscal reserve. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 68 and 69 of the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HBS Bank P LC, Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG in the capacity of Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 000 000 000 euros, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Treaty on Agentship between the Republic of Bulgaria as Enumerator and Citibank N.A., London branch, as a Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citigroup Global Marquettes in the quality of the Register, Payment Agent and Transfer Agent on the Global Framework Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Issue of Bonds, signed on 6 000 euros, signed on February 2015. Madam President, if I may, a security clearance procedure in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u128	Please allow the following representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u129	Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. Vote 85 MPs: 65 against 15, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] The quarm is 66. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Ask for it as you please, colleagues, don't call me from the hall! [[Reply from rapporteur Diana Yordanova.]] Mrs. Yordanova, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u130	Madam President, I ask for a re-vote procedure, as some Members have failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u131	Revoting procedure. Vote 112 MPs: 84, against 25, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u132	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I am doing a procedure for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio due to the wide public importance and public interest in this. Five, debate on the point. Please put this procedural proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u133	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 134 MPs: 47, against 25, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u134	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a re-voting because otherwise it is no wonder that the public will think that some party has agreed on these shuttles that were being done between the parliamentary groups and have reversed their vote. If you want out of here all the time to hear and to sound like you're burying us and how all the newborns will pay 10,000, who were born for the next three years, hide! [[Loud noise and lines.]] I can't understand you, if you're so Democratic, so transparent and the management of the quadruple coalition is transparent, what are you hiding from?! I remember in 2014 all led by Tsvetan Tsvetanov you went up to the Committee on Budget and Finance... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u135	Please don't engage in dialogue, we understand what your procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u136	Revoting procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u137	We get it, Mr. Alexandrov. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats in order to have the opportunity to vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's a rethink mode. Did everyone get a vote? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Vote 166 MPs: 70 against 37, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Iankov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! At the beginning of the meeting on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria we had a proposal that did not go to the vote... you accepted him as Chairman at the debates to attend the Prime Minister of the Republic Boyko Borisov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I am making a procedural proposal not to start the debates without Boyko Borisov attending the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u139	There is no such procedural proposal provided for in our Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister has been informed, I have personally informed the manuals of all parliamentary groups. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance... [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] Mr. Gechev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! The report, which was read by our Budget Committee, failed the MPs. I will read you three sentences from the sitting that have been provided to me by the Budget Committee. They refer to how the proposal for approval or disapproval is voted on. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I quote: "In addition to my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, I have a written request from Mr. Vladislav Nikolov, who is unable to participate at the moment and is announcing how he will vote on the agenda, voted on the agenda. Rumen Gechev: The same case we have a request from our colleague Turnovalyski, who is sick and sent me...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u141	What's the procedure, what's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u142	What's your procedure, Mr. Gechev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u143	President Menda Stoyanova: There is a line with written request...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u144	You will be able to read in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u145	Rumen Gechev: There has been no such practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u146	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u147	And last sentence: President Menda Stoyanova: Mr. Gechev, I recognise the voice of Mr. Turnovalish, as you will vote. It's like he voted, too. Good morning! [[GERB lines.]] Second, the Rules say...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u148	Mr. Gechev, we're already at Good Day!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u149	The decisions of the Standing Committees shall be taken by a majority of those present.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u150	Mr. Gechev, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u151	The procedure is that the truth of the vote is 9:9 votes the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u152	This can't be a procedure. Thank you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u153	...didn't approve of the government's proposal. Thank you. The rest is a lie and a scam!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u154	It's recorded, it's recorded, it's in the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u155	Here's the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u156	Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u157	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a bill for the ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer and Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P.L.C., Societe General and UniCredit Bank AG as Organizer and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015, the Agent's Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citibank N.A., London branch as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citigroup Global Markets Deutscheland AG in the capacity of Registrator, Payment Agent and Agent for the Transfer of the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000 000 000 000, signed on behalf of the Bulgarian Republic of Bulgaria. At an extraordinary meeting held on 12 February 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned bill. The motives of the importer were presented by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. The purpose of the signed contracts is to base a medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets, regulating obligations and relationships between countries, respectively future organisation and issuance of government securities within the programme. The medium-term programme provides the Republic of Bulgaria as an issuer with the possibility of applying flexibility in choosing a funding structure in respect of markets, instruments, currencies and temporaryity, in line with the market situation for issuance. The contracts based on the medium-term programme set out several restrictive parameters for debt instruments that may be issued under this programme. The maximum nominal amount of debt that can be taken under the programme is 8 billion. EUR, the total volume of instalments for each relevant year will be limited to the limits for the acquisition of government debt in the annual laws on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the maximum maturity of the securities to be issued will be up to 30 years. For the needs of the ratification process in the documentation is indicated a maximum bond rate of up to 10%, which significantly exceeds the current interest rates on the Bulgarian bonds. The same is done in order not to give guidance on the market for interest rates on new bonds. The standard maximum values of the parameters of the mid-term programme provided for in the documentation may be changed only after prior legal sanction of the National Assembly. The contract on dealership, the contract on agentship and the act of taking up obligations shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of the explicit provision of art. Art. 68, Art. 69 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 and in conjunction with art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The funds received from the implementation of the medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets through the disposal of future bond issuances will be essential when providing the necessary financial resources in the period 2015 to refinancing public debt, to cover expected budget deficits, as well as to ensure the level of fiscal reserve. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 9 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt by first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HBC Bank P LC, Societe General and UniCredit Bank AG as Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015, the Agentship Contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and Citibank N.A., London branch as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citigrup Global Marketts Doichland AG in the capacity of the Register, Payment Agent and Agent for the Transfer on the Global Framework Programme of Bonds of the Republic of Bulgaria, signed on 6 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. Go ahead, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal and ask for a vote to be put to the vote until Boyko Borisov arrives in the Chamber of Parliament. Since it is about providing a resource for spending, let it be here in the Chamber to explain exactly what money will be spent on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u160	The Minister of Finance is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u161	We've explained that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u162	There's a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u163	The Prime Minister has been asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u164	No, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u165	How will they owe it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u166	A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u167	There's a procedure to postpone the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u168	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u169	I repeat, please take a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u170	Don't yell at me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u171	You are doing a delay procedure without, however, linking us to the Prime Minister's arrival. You are doing a procedure to postpone the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u172	Yes, until the Prime Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u173	No doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo, doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo! So, we're putting it off. When do we postpone the debate? What's your offer? What do we suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u174	When there is a chance Boyko Borisov, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u175	That somewhere far in time could be. Once you've specified the procedure, I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u176	It's a deposition procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u177	On behalf of the importer? No. [[Heckling]] I'm opening the debate, you have a say in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u178	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u180	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u181	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm using the ability to conduct a procedure. I have proposed that this House vote to postpone the debate. I ask you to put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u183	Debate delay? Okay. We are voting on the motion to postpone the debate. They voted 145 MPs: 51, against 79, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u184	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u185	Iankov Bey, the only time anyone hasn't been able to vote is if they don't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm doing a re-voting procedure because there's obviously a problem with the consoles. [[Radio.]] There are problems with colleagues who could not vote. We will probably also get to a procedure in which we will want a roll-call vote after the debate is over, as there are some Members present who do not take their vote into account. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u187	Re-vote, please. Vote 157 MPs: 62, against 77, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u188	The ABB colleagues don't have their consoles working. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u189	We'll continue the debate. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u190	Doesn't one of the importers want to take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u191	No, none of the importers want to take any attitude. I asked. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] That's why I found the debate. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u192	Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Gechev, come in. [[Comments from GERB and RB.]] Please, no yelling from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! The subject is serious enough to look professionally at a problem concerning borrowing of 16 billion. lv. Ladies and gentlemen, we from BSP left Bulgaria and we have several specific objections to this proposal. Who are they? Firstly, we strongly believe that it is a violation of the Constitution and the Budget Act that the Minister of Finance, without having been given a mandate, signed no agreement on 6 February this year, in this there is no problem, for consulting services and mediation, but that in the agreement in question and the proposed law there is the number not even............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues from the ruling coalition, no one has given you the mandate to negotiate for 8 billion. Euros. The laws in the Republic of Bulgaria and the member states of the European Union are clear: the debt is determined for each individual year, as we voted for 2015. By coming 2016 we will vote for the debt 2016 and 2017 respectively. First thing. Secondly, apart from this being a violation of the Constitution and the law, we have a serious problem. My fellow Members, I am asking a rhetorical question: Is it normal for a proposal of 16 billion to come into the Budget Committee? lv. an external loan, without the Ministry of Finance presenting several tabs, in which to write what the money will be used for on relevant dates, how this money will be used exactly, who will spend it and what are the expected results, at what rate exactly the relevant loans are expected to be concluded. There's not a word in the contract about what the broker's commissions are. There's not a single word about how the intermediaries are selected. I would like to remind you that the definition of intermediaries for internal debt is done by the Minister of Finance and is available on the website from Mr. Oresharski; how the intermediaries for internal debt are selected. Question: is there on the Ministry of Finance website? Have we, the MPs, heard how these four banks have been selected? We're not. I mean, in some late hours somewhere, someone has agreed on how this contract will be concluded and on what commissions. We have the right to know what the commissions are and it would be very interesting how they will be distributed, as the amount is huge. We're talking about 16 billion. lv. The next organizational argument. It is extremely disturbing that such a crucial decision, honourable Members, is taken on a knee with the ministers' signature. That's not illegal. Such decisions have been made by other governments, but not for such huge loans. Is it normal, honourable colleagues, Minister of Economy, Minister of Labour and Deputy Prime Minister, and other ministers to learn from the media that his own government, part of him, somewhere decided to borrow 16 billion. And this was confirmed by the leaders of the parties concerned. Therefore, we come across an extraordinary precedent behind the back of parliament, without authorization, behind the back of the own government is signed an agreement in violation of the Bulgarian Constitution and the law. We don't know exactly how much this money will be used and for what, we don't know the conditions under which it will be used. A few specifics that we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, by reviewing the data available in the new version of the government for an external loan of 16 billion, only an external loan, and the forecast that was made in the budget a month and a half ago for 2015, honourable Members, what are the reasons for several weeks the forecast to be so pessimistic for 2015, 2016 and 2017? The difference in numbers is what you want to take as external debt and what is set out in the forecast of the Ministry of Finance itself a month and a half ago is about 5 billion. lv. What difference does it make? Dear colleagues, well, there is no way, after all, the MPs went to some school, the debt of 1.7 billion cannot be settled. lv. in the budget with a loan from 2014 included in the payment now on 15 January. Maybe it's a technical mistake that nearly $2 billion. lv. You didn't count them. Second of all, why didn't you count a billion? BGN, which we gave to First Investment Bank? They're not given forever. They are given for temporary purposes and this money must be returned. Where are the cabinet's reforms and promises to increase tax collection? There are no such effects in the budget. Where are the additional revenue in the budget from the projected forecasts for economic growth? There aren't any. Therefore, from this point of view, we do not have any convincing information that this huge debt must be borne by the Bulgarian people. Furthermore, we do not know when the maturity of this debt will be within 30 years. I see that Finance Minister Goranov says that there is a large accumulation of debts 2016-2017. Well, have you just seen him, colleagues? What have you been doing for so many months? And then one morning around 10:30, you realize there's a cluster. This is known by at least 200 experts in Bulgaria and several hundred experts from international financial institutions and commercial banks. And why do we have to pile up the debt in these years? You say you will use these funds to buy back old debt. Pay attention, this is a very important argument that I will now break very easily. Why? Dear colleagues, if it is true that you will pay old debt, according to BNB data on 31 December the external debt is 7 billion. Euros? We paid 1.5 billion on January 15th. lv. So the debt must be about 5.5 billion. Until now, the accumulated debt in all years. Why do you want to withdraw 8 billion? Buying out an old debt? So this is absolutely unacceptable. Second very important argument. If you fellow Members are paying off an old debt, I am asking you the following simple question from arithmetic. Until just one and a half years ago, Bulgaria's share of public debt in gross domestic product was 17 - 18%. You've put it in the forecast for the first one in 2015. In 2017 all of a sudden, what you want is 32%! Excuse me, if it is true that you are going to pay old debt, then this percentage in gross domestic product should be reduced, at least not even to change gross domestic product, to have zero economic growth! Someone's lying! Therefore, if the number is true that you will exceed 30% of gross domestic product, then you are lying that you will pay old debt! If you're not lying, you need to explain some new formulas in arithmetic and debt service. So this is absolutely unacceptable! I would also like to say for information to some colleagues who are going around television and talking about budget deficits. Dear colleagues, in the last 40 years, there have been only 3 countries around the world, exporting from Saudi Arabia, Norway, the United Arab Emirates, which have a budget surplus. Open the stats! The United States, the most developed market economy in 50 years, has a surplus of 45 years has budget deficits. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in the past 40 years has had negative budget balance Of course, this does not mean that the deficits should be 10, 15 or 20%, as they are in countries in crisis. Is it not a regularity in the European Union and a principle that budget deficits should be up to 3% of gross domestic product? We say it's unreasonable not to say a stronger word. The whole world, developed and developing countries maintain reasonable, low deficits that stimulate the economy! Another question is what money is used for. So we ask: if there will be deficits, what will these funds be used for? It's not unimportant to say something very important. Therefore, from these data that I export to you by country, there is nothing scary in deficits up to 3%. The scary thing is when these deficits are not used to stimulate the economy, which is our case. Dear colleagues, not only is the Bulgarian debt doubled, not only is the Constitution and the law broken, the scariest thing is that this money does not go for investment in the Bulgarian economy! There is not a single lev that goes to new jobs through a public-private partnership to reduce unemployment, to dynamicize economic growth! Wait, fellow Members, what's going on in our country? You want a doubling of government debt with this dilapidated number and you bet a tiny economic growth of 0.8! So someone wants no reforms, no economic growth, but to buy a political future with billions of levs in the coming years! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] It turns out that someone wants to perform well in the upcoming municipal elections and in the presidential elections, and then the Bulgarian people ate it! From BSP left Bulgaria we are adamant.. without information about what the money will be used for, with the lies in the figures what the money will be used for, in violation of the law and with the fact that the money does not go to the Bulgarian producer and his working hands, we do not agree and will strongly vote against! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u194	Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u195	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, I would like to take 30 minutes off.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u196	I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u197	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The time for interruption is up. The Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs in the hall, we continue with the debate on the ratification bill. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u198	Something is very empty, Madam President. The minister's gone. Let's wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u199	I agree with your finding. You asked for the word. I gave it to you. Please, colleagues, quickly take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It seems the Minister is not interested in what we want to tell him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u201	Quaestors, invite Minister Goranov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u202	Are you aware of what a grand mistake you are making with the management of external debt, with the budget, with the budget deficit and how you are ruining the authority of the institutions? Do you even realize what and how and why you want to do? Who is doing it is clear your minister and your prime minister. They obviously have their motives, which jealously keep to themselves, in secret. But why, for example, honourable patriots and reformers, do you want all of you to be accomplices to this, I would say, a staggering act of national irresponsibility? Why do you want the state to accumulate unnecessary debts instead of providing economic growth and prosperity for people? Why do you want to condemn to poverty all and generations ahead to wonder how to make ends meet? From a legal point of view, what you want to do is, to put it mildly, absolutely unacceptable. You want the National Assembly to approve an unconstitutional Law on ratification of government external debt contracts of 16 billion. BGN, a law contrary to other laws and contrary to even the basic legal logic and the basic legal principles, note the Law on ratification of contracts which, behind the back of the National Assembly and of the Council of Ministers, have already been concluded in the harshest violation of the Constitution, the laws and the decision of the Council of Ministers, without complying with any procedure for the conclusion of such contracts. On what grounds did Minister Goranov, who is still missing, conclude these contracts? I'll tell you: none. I repeat on no grounds. And, in my opinion, these contracts are absolutely null and void. And it has to be clearly said to know it and the counterparties, dealers, agents, organizers and the like. First, the Constitution has not been respected and, in particular, art. 84, p. 9 to give prior consent to the conclusion of State loans contracts. Secondly, the State Debt Act and the International Contracts Act, which require such contracts to be signed only by a decision of the Council of Ministers, not before. Not to mention the Budget Act for this year, where there is a clearly defined limit and amount of government debt. Thirdly, notice, there is no decision of the Council of Ministers itself, with which Minister Goranov is authorised to negotiate and sign for 16 billion. BGN, and in order to sign contracts for a government loan of this amount, apart from the prior consent of the National Assembly, there must be an explicit decision of the Council of Ministers. The decision of the Council of Ministers No 785 of 2014 authorised the Minister of Finance for only 3 billion but not for 16 billion. lv. [[Mister Vladislav Goranov enters the Chamber.]] And permission for only 3 billion is no coincidence, is it, Minister? The public data submitted by the Ministry of Finance itself for the management of external debt for 2015 shows a peak payment on global bonds of around 2 billion. 100 million. I will repeat this figure: 2 billion. 100 million and 2016 and 2017 something like 400 million, foreign debt payments. And this is the Ministry of Finance's data. In other words, there is a harsh violation of both the Constitution and the laws and the decisions of the Council of Ministers themselves. From a legal and whatever point of view, the actions of the leading minister, the Minister of Finance, are absolutely invalid and are in complete violation and a clear demonstration that for the rule of law and rule of law, care for the protection of state interest means absolutely nothing to the rule of law and rule of law. In normal countries, such ministers immediately resign so that they are not dishonorably removed, and do you realize with these treaties what is proposed in essence? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u203	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u204	These are not clear contracts with relatively equal rights for countries that defend state interest. In essence, these contracts are unilateral, only for the benefit of dealers, agents and organizers and so on and are generally equivalent to the issuance of a blank check. Banks, agents and consultants will fill out whatever they want in it and the state will have to pay without any right, not even right, and even without a timid hope of contesting and defending the state's interest. What is proposed is to legitimize consent for a blanquetous basis for robbing who as much as wants to accumulate obligations of the state and the people. It will be made by the sole Minister of Finance, who will further sign any contracts, amendments to signed contracts and so on. We from BSP left Bulgaria definitely disagree and no one reasonable would agree to oblige another to determine any obligation, when to owe it and how to owe it. I'll make you a small bill. For 16 billion that we will get and if all dealers and organizers, and so on are good to us, determine and achieve interest of half of what you give them as a right, that is, interest is not 10%, but 5%, we will have to pay back more than 36 billion. lv. That's about 20,000. lv. the debt of every working Bulgarian citizen in addition to all other obligations, taxes, fees and increases of the prices you accumulate on the back of the people. Do you know what the minimum wage is and how much minimum wages this number makes 20 thousand? Lev? .. 60. Do you know what the average annual income of a person is? In four years, he won't be able to pay that amount. People with minimum and average remuneration will have to work for four or five years just to pay off this debt without having the right to eat, drink water and dress, meet minimum human needs. And one more thing. How exactly did you determine these dealers, agents and consultants to whom the state would have to pay fat premiums, discounts and commissions?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u205	Mr. Georgiev, your group also has requests from other MPs. I remind you to consider the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u206	How much will they actually be paid, Minister? Why didn't you negotiate directly with ECB Deutsche Bank or Bank of China? The interest would have been no more than 1%. Finally, once again, I would like to remind you of your President's official position: The long-term financing of a growing deficit is an extremely dangerous way in which going back is very painful. The increase in deficit and debt in this way is irresponsible to both us and future generations. Listen to these words, otherwise more and more you will hear the voice of social discontent. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u207	Thank you. Mr. Mikov's procedure. However, your procedure enters into time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u208	I know he's coming in. Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, there are currently bargaining for support in respect of whole groups and individual MPs. In this regard, I propose that we extend the meeting until the adoption so that we do not leave this nocturnal conviction to groups and MPs for these 16 billion. Extension until the end of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u209	Is there a reverse opinion? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u210	Dear colleagues! If today's debate and discussion suffer from some serious flaw, it is precisely that insufficient dialogue has been held within the majority, dialogue with the opposition [[(strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Partial scandals:..Resign! Resignation!]] and dialogue in society so that we cannot call bargaining the natural processes of coordination of political positions. Thank you. [[Sighs: "Eeeee! ", lines and applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u211	And what is your opposite offer, Mr. Kanev? [[Reply by National Representative Radan Kanev.]] I put to the vote Mr. Mikov's proposal to extend the plenary session until the debates and the vote on this point have been concluded. Vote 197 MPs: for 73, against 105, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Siderov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u212	I, as a humanist, want to propose to the ruling GERB Party, to its partners: colleagues, we offer to save you some levs, so if we extend the time now, it will end today. If we go tomorrow, you'll have a whole night of racketeering, blackmailing, and tomorrow some colleagues will be sensitively richer. [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter and excitement.]] So save your money and vote to extend the time. [[Laughter, applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB. Claps by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u213	Please, fellow Members, calm down a re-voting procedure. They voted 196 MPs: for 73, against 104, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. [[Scanded: "Recruitment, resignation!" and banging on the banks of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u214	You're short, you're short!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u215	Replies to Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's statement? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u216	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I say in advance that I will not go into the populist tone of some Members in this House. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm gonna ask you, you're not gonna hear me yell, because we're not somewhere in the meadow, we're in the highest authority of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u217	Please don't explain yourself to the MPs. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u218	The parliament is being imported... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I'm asking you to bring order to this Chamber at the expense of my time. An extremely important issue for a loan of 8 billion is being submitted to parliament for ratification. EUR, without prior agreement with the management of the ABB. This partner misdirection is the third in a row. The first was for the vote to remove the tax credit; the second is for the introduction and voting for the universal pension funds to be transferred to the NSI without waiting for a comprehensive reform of the pension system; and the third is the topic we are discussing today. The signed contracts for dealership and for agency have positive aspects that allow for active debt management of the country, which creates predictability over time and reduces administrative procedures and transaction costs associated with the issue of government securities. However, there are also many questions that are not explained in a reasoned way. At the end of 2014 was announced a competition involving 19 banks, of which were selected the four banks of which were selected for a bridge loan of 1 billion. 400 million. the euros the government withdrew. Then, obviously, there is also a commitment to these four banks to sign the mediation agreements proposed today for ratification. This commitment concerning the provision of services by the banks in question relating to the management of huge funds for the size of the country is made without the knowledge of the public and coalition partners, without a sanction from the parliament, which we consider unacceptable. It is right for us to organise a new competition in front of the public, to achieve the best possible conditions. The parameters of the contracts for dealership are not clear enough. They lack information about fees and commissions that banks will receive. As is clear from the Bill, the government will issue a new debt of 8 billion. Euros. This amount is explained by the need to repay the government debt that matures over the next three years, as well as to provide funds to cover a budget deficit that will occur in the coming years. It is undeniable that we must support the first part of the credit, namely 6 billion, but there is a question of the required budget deficit of 2 billion without explaining what will be spent on. If these 2 billion debt is to cover a project deficit of costs that do not provide economic growth and do not lead at least to an equal increase in gross domestic product, then this debt is a serious burden and burden for taxpayers. We need to get an answer to the question:... these 2 billion new debt to cover expenditure of what nature will be used and will it lead to an increase in the rate of economic growth? In view of all this, we believe that ratification of the Treaties in Parliament should not be supported in this form. Instead, propose the following. The servicing banks with which the contract is concluded shall be selected with a contest, in full clarity and transparency of all commitments, fees, commissions and so on. Secondly, the amount of debt to be issued should only be fixed within the maturity of the old debts that need refinancing. As regards the planned budget deficits for 2016 and 2017 to clarify their nature and support the financing with a new debt of only part of them which is explicitly intended for investment costs. Any other additional costs that are planned to be covered by debt emissions should only be supported if they are investment in their nature and aimed at projects that develop the competitiveness of our economy in the long term, because the country has a very limited financial resource and they should be selective towards areas where a high return can be achieved. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u219	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u220	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! A moment ago, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov threatened the parliament that if this debt is not accepted, he proposes, I quote, essentially, to resign. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u221	On TV, Alpha?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u222	I think that in the interest of the nation, it is better for the Bulgarian people that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and his entire government to go away than to take on a new colossal debt! It is better for the nation to have immediate early elections, if it comes to that, than to remain this vicious quadruple majority, which for now, thank God, I feel that at least the ABB is withdrawing the support. This triple majority is ready to vote on this terrible colossal loan. On this occasion, I would like to tell you something, as you are obviously not informed, but the Franz Press Agency announced forty-five minutes ago the following, which I hope the Minister of Finance will react to. Mr. Minister, did you know that forty-five minutes ago, the authorities in Switzerland opened a criminal procedure, an investigation into money laundering under aggravated circumstances and are currently conducting searches in the office of the bank in Geneva. The prosecutor of the Canton of Geneva Olivier Journaló and the chief prosecutor are conducting a search at the bank. And you, with this bank, Mr. Minister, with this bank, you, esteemed colleagues of the triple majority for now, are trying to take, to serve this colossal debt! I turn to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I want to tell them that I cannot believe and refuse to believe that they will support the debt. You, who are representatives of the most hard-working perhaps Bulgarian citizens and the poorest Bulgarian citizens [[partial applause from the PFF block]] I can't believe you're going to support this debt! I turn to the Reformation bloc, which have always claimed that only left-wing governments and left-wing governments oblige the state and spend, and you, the right-wing ones, when you are in power, then you save and the state is in development. Will you cheat on your right ideology and philosophy and will you vote on a criminal debt for Bulgaria?! I am convinced that you cannot cheat on your right, because if Bulgaria is in a disastrous situation, it is due to this neoliberal right-wing policy, whose representatives are you! I'm addressing the representatives of the Patriotic Front. Will you support this debt and these contracts that are currently running between you and Minister Goranov? And this vacation you asked for just 10 minutes ago to agree on what's behind it?! Your sick conscience or ambitions for more, shall I say in financial terms? I do not believe and refuse to believe that you will do so, as all your 240 thousand voters who voted for you will disown you if they have not already denied it. Of course, I support and congratulate my colleagues at the ABB if they really do, as the former Head of State Georgi Parvanov said just now, that it is reserved and is against taking this debt. I am very pleased, honourable Members, with parties that very well use the quorum. I ask you very much to speak here and you must speak according to your beliefs, but when the time comes for voting, do not move out of the Chamber cowardly to secure the quorum of GERB Party and the acceptance of this debt! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] At the moment, let me finish with the speech of the previous colleague "buying-sales" of parliamentary groups! Let the Bulgarian people know that parliamentary groups are being bought! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] This is a shame and a disgrace to Bulgarian parliamentaryism! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u223	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u224	I'm addressing you, Enchev effendi, to ask you: your guilty conscience hinted that the most working part is from the DPS. When were you telling the truth, Enchev Efendi when you attacked Boyko Borisov or when you were courting him when you were on paychecks from SKAT TV and when you were obediently performing the assignments that were put on you? I'm asking you, and I'm addressing your guilty conscience where did you come from, Enchev effendi? What party did you come from, so as your last resort, you're trying to moralize here?! Because if you look at your results, in just one year you have three thousand votes less! And if you're running now, you probably won't get three lame old ladies, Enchev effendi! [[Noise and excitement in the bloc of GERB and PF.]] It is good that you recognized each other and clearly and categorically stated that you are from the formation of the DPS. [[Voices "Ha-ha-ha" by DPS.]] Everything else is fairy tales and empty pathetics that you never managed to master properly. You had to learn a little bit more in SKAT TV and a little bit more to understand the moods and patriotic tendencies of your fellows who you betrayed! Thank you, aga efendi. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u225	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u226	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! I will not respond to your qualifications, Mr. Kasabov. I'm just going to ask you one question: how are you going to vote in minutes or in an hour or two?! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] This is important! And I'm going to say it one more time. Perhaps the most hard-working Bulgarian citizens and the most affected by the transition are Bulgarian Muslims. And there is no shame in admitting this, so I call once again on fellow Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to remain faithful to their constituents and not to support this criminal commitment to the Bulgarian state, which will be paid by another generation after us! Therefore, Mr. Kasabov, and all of you of the Patriotic Front, if you are really patriots, I ask you, specifically: do not give your support for this colossal duty! Please! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u227	Any other MPs? Here's a statement, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u228	Madam President, honourable Members! Let's get to the point. The most important thing in this situation and in this debate is to say that for a whole week we have been listening to an intrusive lie. We're listening to her to the point that she's in danger of becoming the truth, which wouldn't be good. There is no new debt and we are not voting on a new debt. [[Voices "Eeeee", "Woo", by BSP LB.]] We're not discussing a new debt! A new debt can be discussed when discussing the 2016 budget or the 2017 budget, or when in 2013 you voted for an update with a new debt that did not happen and which in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 will not happen, ladies and gentlemen, because Bulgaria has a stable management, which is known for not updating its budget three times a year. [[Applause from GERB.]] No new debt, no new deficit. These are budget topics and we will discuss them seriously during the budget. And we're gonna squeeze the finance minister out like a wet rag. [[crowd cheers from BSP LB]] because we will argue that the debt for 2016 should be smaller. At the moment, the finance minister is simply offering us a good financial instrument for government debt management. A financial instrument that, with an enviable success, Poland has been using more than five years, Romania has been using it for four years, from this year and from now on Bulgaria will use it as well. It will better manage its debt levels, reduce its interest rates, inspire stability in the financial markets and its own population, something that this government has managed to insinuate surprisingly quickly for a coalition format since its first days. A few words about the political effect of this decision. The attack was obvious, the attack was strong, any opposition would attack. Believe me, we'd attack harder and more gracefully than you. It's perfectly normal. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB and DPS.]] Every majority, every government, every finance minister and every prime minister will suffer losses from such a decision, because it is difficult to explain to people and society. And before us from the Reformation Bloc there is an obvious political choice: whether to reap a huge political dividend, I stress, a huge political dividend, if in this situation we oppose, we join the people of liars, we start calling the programme a debt. We're going to win an enormous amount. But what sits on the other dish on the scale? There is responsible political behavior, there is an obligation to call things by their real names, even when it is not popular. The task in politics is for those in power to lose to earn the citizens. That's why power changes every few years, and that's how it should be. So take it easy! The time will come for a new government, the time will come for the opposition to be in power. And thanks to such an instrument the opposition will manage in greater comfort after that management, because the debt levels of Bulgaria will be better managed. A few words, let's put the tar drop in the honey pot, of course, the way this proposal is offered. There were voices both from the government and from colleagues from the majority that budget policy is the work of the government and not the parliament. Nothing deeper politically false can be heard in a parliamentary democracy. Moreover, in the limited democracies the parliament has a single function.. so it was created historically and it is to deal only with the budget and the public debt, not to allow the king then to spend out of control, to print out of control and to owe the next generations uncontrollably. So if there is a debate where it belongs for sure in Parliament, this debate is the debate on the budget and on the debt. And this is a principled, constitutional issue of parliamentary democracy, which we will not give in to, so we insist that the debate between the parliamentary groups continue. And the debate in parliament on its most relevant question.. the question of the budget and the debt, to be declared bargaining and something shameful, is the same or greater insult to parliamentaryism than to bring such a proposal into the Chamber without debate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u229	- What's the line? Mr. Tsonev, first line. [[BSP LB.]] Once the procedure is completed, I will end the session with lines and backs. The speech started before 2:00 p.m. There's no way to end it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u230	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Kanev, you would be right in this speech and you would even be professionally focused in your analysis in this debate if it wasn't for what happened a year and a few months ago, say a year and a half ago, when the 2013 budget was updated. Then, in the case of a requested increase in government debt by 1 billion more, you all together, and you mostly, Mr. Kanev, and the formation you led, together with the civil associations, organizations such as the "Protest Network" as the Institute for Market Economics reacted in a way that I now wonder, is that what you call more competently we would attack.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u231	There wasn't a protest network back then.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u232	If you were an opposition, would you attack more competently?! [[BSP LB.]] Dear colleagues, to tell you how competent Mr. Kanev attacked when he was opposed to the Oresharski government. Quoting: This budget and this debt bets a huge theft from the pocket of the Bulgarian beneficiary. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]] Dear colleagues, did you hear this gentleman talking about stealing now that it's 16 billion?! Don't talk! Because he's in the department because they demagogize, because, honourable colleagues, they have to apologize if they're right now. If we return the debate to his budget and fiscal plane that we need to manage the debt, that debt of 1 billion was taken precisely for the return of an old debt of 800 million, since February and we explained it from a studio in a studio, and they organized here a platform, where masturbators economists and Mr. Kanev said that this was a robbery, 1 billion debt was a robbery out of the pocket of the Bulgarian people. And now, 16 billion is not a robbery because Mr. Kanev is in the government and because they came to power with the promise that they will make reforms and because there are no grams of reforms! [[Applause and cheering by BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u233	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Second line, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u234	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Kanev, since you were so irrigationly telling us that there is nothing scary about this vote, why did Boyko Borisov threaten to resign you? [[Speak and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u235	Third line? I won't. A hole, Lord Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u236	In the second line, no one has ever threatened me! My support for this measure was announced three hours after you lied about the new debt and I continue to support it absolutely no matter what anyone says. If tomorrow the Prime Minister comes out and says that he thinks it is a bad financial instrument, I will not withdraw the words that this is a good financial instrument. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u237	Order, please! Just a few more minutes of patience, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u238	Mr. Tsonev, thank you for reading that I'm right in this case. Because you know it, and the other colleagues in the opposition know it, it's nice to say those things. I'll try to return the gesture at the right time. However, you are not right to compare the situation from 2013 with the situation now, not because someone was in opposition at the time, but now is in power. The fact is that positions on the same budgetary measures are always different when someone is in opposition and is once in power. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u239	Colleagues, a little more patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u240	I told you during my main speech in 2013 the state budget was updated to take a new debt of 1 billion. An update was made and an increase in the debt ceiling. Currently no update, no increase in the debt ceiling. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] The other big difference was then planned to do something that was done, and we warned. Three hundred and fifty million of that 1 billion were further distributed to ineffective energy productions that supported the government at that time. We warned and it happened! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-18.u241	The time for today's plenary session is over. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session starting at 9:00. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
