ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 25 to 27 November 2015 as follows: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer: Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 11 November 2015 2. Election of President and four members of the Fiscal Council. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 23 September 2015. 3. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. Importer: Council of Ministers. This item is intended to be first for Thursday 26 November 2015. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for MiG-29 aeroplanes. Importer: Council of Ministers. This is intended to be t. 1 for Friday, November 27th. 5. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and on the determination of the number of armed forces. Importer: Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education. Several drafts with importers Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs from 29 April 2015; Council of Ministers from 1 June 2015; Petar Slavov and a group of MPs from 24 July 2015; Borislav Borisov, 15 September 2015; Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov, 15 September 2015 Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs from 16 September 2015.). 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure in the Area. A joint project was drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 28 May 2015 with importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs; Council of Ministers. 10. A bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement on the Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme in Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. First vote on the Bill of Supplements to the Civil Procedure Code. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Friday at 11:00 p.m. Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 141 MPs: 119, against 3, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is submitted a proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev, Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria with which he proposes to include the first vote of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Arends Act, No 554-01-52, as of 13 March this year, with the importer Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Mrs. Bachvarova, are you going to defend the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! We propose for discussion this week to include the Landing Act, which, as you can see, has been submitted to the National Assembly in March of this year. Our motives for this are related to the changes that occurred in Bulgarian agriculture after accession to the European Union. The lease law was passed in 1995 as a very simple law which had to regulate land relations as a first step and the conclusion of lease contracts. The latest change is in 2008 and these changes do not reflect in any form what happened in Bulgarian agriculture and vicious practices, which led to problems related mainly to the withdrawal of the right of owner. In the current practices in Bulgarian agriculture, the Landing Act creates many prerequisites for abuse in the conclusion of lease contracts and the owners of agricultural land to be harmed in the conclusion of these contracts. I just want to tell you that in one year we have been able to change the law on ownership and use of agricultural land five times, but clearly there is no will to change the Landing Act, where the problems are much bigger. Therefore, within this week, we propose that this Law be discussed with relevant arguments to support its change in such a way as to comply with the requirements and European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u3	Colleagues, we're voting. 140 MPs voted: 56 against 20, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Communication on bills and draft decisions for the period from 18 November to 24 November this year: A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer "Javor Haytov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Declaration on the occasion of terrorist attacks in Paris and the need to step up efforts to counter and eradicate terrorism. Importer "Kyril Tsochev" and group of MPs. Leading Committee on Foreign Policy, Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision on the report on the ongoing implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund as of 30 June 2015 and the expected implementation of the budget as of 31 December 2015. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health. Draft amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer Georgi Kadiev. The Committee on Budget and Finance. It'll be watched more by the Health Committee. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer Georgi Kadiev. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. It will be viewed by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Report on the implementation of the privatization and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government, on the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill on equality between women and men. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. A draft decision on a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be seen. Importer "Borislav Iglev." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has been led by the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Defence Committee. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Recognition of Professional Qualifications. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science. It will also be seen by the Committee on Health, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Moving to point one of our weekly program: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE UNDERSTANDING. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Please, before we begin the second reading to vote on a procedure in this House to allow Mr. Bekir. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Petkova. Director of the Tax Policy Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u5	Please vote. They voted 130 MPs: 123, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u6	The Law on Corporate Income Tax is amended and supplemented by the Law on Corporate Income Tax. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Paragraph 1? a proposal of the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point "3." for accrued revenue resulting from the allocation of amounts, in so far as these amounts are recognised for tax purposes, costs and/or result in a reduction of the tax financial result of the distributor regardless of their accounting method in that entity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u7	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission and § 1 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 105, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u8	Proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov for a new paragraph. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1, t. 12 is amended as follows: c. 12. children with disabilities, without parents, as well as for the treatment of children, where the necessary funds are not fully covered by the State or the State has not granted the funds for the treatment at the time of its initiation. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u9	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u10	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, as you have heard, our proposal concerns donations where they are made for the benefit of children in need of treatment, and in cases where the state cannot, unfortunately, react quickly enough and provide the means of treatment. Especially, you know, there are cases where emergency treatment is needed abroad, and procedures for granting funds are often slow and clumsy and need to resort to donation. At the moment, as most colleagues know, donation is encouraged when it benefits one of the big organizations, be it BCK, be it UNICEF and so on. And then there's an identical reference. But if it is done directly to the needy child, respectively his parents, then unfortunately the Law does not provide for an opportunity to enjoy this little tax relief. Our proposal is to equalise the regime and to practically no discrimination, of course, and to encourage donation. I wish you, colleagues, to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u11	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 49, against 6, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u12	Paragraph 2? a proposal of the MPs Yordanova and Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 2 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: "4." dividends resulting from distributed amounts, in so far as these amounts are recognised for tax purposes costs and/or result in a reduction in the tax financial result of the distribution entity regardless of their accounting method in that entity. In paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 in its version of the report and paragraphs 3 to 10 including by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u14	According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 11 and shall propose the following wording: ..... 11........................ 11.................................................... Article 185 is amended as follows: supplied cases of transmission Art. 185. (1) When as a result of the increased employment the municipality shall be removed from the scope of the municipalities under art. 183, the person who acquired the right to transfer corporate tax under art. 184 in conjunction with Art. 188 shall maintain that right for the next 5 consecutive years, with effect from the year in which the area is removed from the list, subject to the other conditions of assignment. (2) The person who has acquired the right to transfer corporate tax under art. 184 in conjunction with Art. 189, reserves this right for the initial investment project for the tax periods specified in the order under art. 189, p. 1 letter (b) of the Bulgarian Investment Agency, but not later than 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u15	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 11. They voted 102 MPs: for 100, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u16	According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 12 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... Article 189 is amended as follows: The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 189. State aid for regional development in the form of a deferred tax shall be granted for an initial investment project subject to the following conditions: 1. general conditions: (a) the taxable person shall submit to the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Investment Agency an application form for regional development aid on a template at the latest prior to the start of the initial investment project; (b) the taxable person has received an order from the Bulgarian Investment Agency in which the initial investment project referred to in (a) is: (aa) it is confirmed that the aid has the necessary incentive effect corresponding to one of the scenarios described in paragraph 1. 61 of the Regional Aid Guidelines 2014-2020, the aid does not give rise to the apparent negative effects described in paragraph 1. 121 of the Regional Aid Guidelines 2014-2020 and that all other eligibility conditions are met, and (bb) the maximum amount, intensity and duration of the aid are recorded; (c) the order and manner of issuing the order referred to in point (b) shall be determined by order of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy; 2. conditions affecting the amount and intensity of the aid: (a) the amount of the deferred taxes (aid) during the implementation of the initial investment project shall not exceed the amount of aid set out in the order under point (a). point (b) is replaced by the following: (b) the reduction in the amount of eligible costs for the initial investment concerned shall not result in the aid intensity set out in the order under point (c) above being exceeded. point (b) is replaced by the following: (c) the maximum aid intensity shall be 50 per cent and for an initial investment carried out in municipalities of the South-West Region, 25 per cent calculated on the basis of the present value of the aid compared to the present value of the total eligible costs of the initial investment declared by the taxable person in the application form; (d) the value of the aid and the value of eligible costs for tangible and intangible assets shall be determined at the present value at the date of granting the aid, using the reference rate set by the European Commission at that date; (e) the amount of aid to large enterprises corresponds to the net additional cost of carrying out the initial investment in the municipality concerned compared to the comparison scenario without aid; the method described in paragraph 1 shall apply when calculating the amount of the aid. 79 and 80 of the Regional Aid Guidelines 2014-2020, together with the maximum aid intensity as an upper limit; 3. conditions relating to eligible costs, initial investment and assets that are part of it: (a) State aid in the form of a deferred corporate tax shall be used to acquire tangible and intangible assets which are part of the initial investment project; (b) the initial investment must be carried out within 4 calendar years, including the year of receipt of the order under point 2. point (b) is replaced by the following: (c) the activity relating to the initial investment must continue to take place in the municipality concerned for a period of at least 5 years after the year of completion of the initial investment; this circumstance shall be declared by annual tax returns each year until the end of the 5-year period; (d) at least 25 percent of the value of eligible costs for the tangible and intangible assets included in the initial investment must be financed by own or attracted funds from the taxable person; shall not be considered as own or borrowed funds the deferred corporate tax, as well as other means in which there is any element of State aid; (e) the tangible and intangible assets included in the initial investment must have been acquired under market conditions corresponding to those of unrelated parties, the intangible assets included in the initial investment must be amortizable assets; (f) the value of eligible costs for intangible assets included in the initial investment shall not exceed 50 percent of the amount of eligible costs for tangible and intangible assets included in the initial investment; (g) the intangible assets included in the initial investment must be used only in the activity of the taxable person and be included in his assets for at least 5 years; (h) for the assets referred to in (a) the debtor is not the beneficiary of any of the following aid: (aa) assistance within the meaning of art. 107 § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; (bb) minimum aid granted under all de minimis aid regulations; (c) financial assistance under the Rural Development Programme; (d) any other public financial assistance from the State budget and/or from the European Union budget; (i) for an initial investment relating to the diversification of production of a production site with products which it does not produce, the eligible costs shall exceed by at least 200 percent the carrying amount of the assets that are re-used by 31 December of the year prior to the start of the initial investment project; (k) the value of eligible costs for assets included in an initial investment relating to a material change in the total production process must exceed the amount of the accounting costs for depreciation of assets related to the activities to be modernised for the preceding three reporting periods; 4. additional conditions in cases where the initial investment is part of a large investment project or a single investment project: (a) where a tax relief is granted for a large investment project which has received aid from all sources at group level, the total value of which exceeds the remaining equivalent of 37,5 million. EUR and for an initial investment carried out in municipalities of the South-West Region...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... EUR determined at the official exchange rate of BGN to the euro, the tax relief can be used for the relevant year only if a positive decision has been received by the European Commission following a notification made in accordance with art. 108, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; the Minister of Finance shall inform the European Commission under the State Aid Act; the taxable person shall be obliged to provide the Minister of Finance with the necessary information to send a notification to the European Commission; (b) the value of the aid and the value of the eligible costs for tangible and intangible assets included in a large investment project shall be determined at the present value at the date of notification to the European Commission under art. 108, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, using the reference rate set by the European Commission at that date; (c) where a large investment project does not have to be subject to point (a) and (b) the tax relief may be used only if the adjusted amount of aid for regional aid for large investment projects is respected, as defined in point (c). 20, point (c) of the Regional Aid Guidelines for the period 2014-2020; (d) the value of the aid and the value of eligible costs for tangible and intangible assets included in a large investment project shall be determined at the present value at the date of granting the aid, using the reference rate set by the European Commission at that date; (e) where aid for an initial investment project considered part of a single investment project is granted, the aid of the taxable person for this project shall be reduced for eligible costs exceeding 50 million. EUR.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u17	Thank you. Are there any speeches on proposals from the Commission paragraph? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting § 12 by importer in the version of the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 94, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u19	Speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 13. They voted 105 MPs: for 89, against none, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u20	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 21, point (a) (b) (i) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) point 29 is amended as follows: It's 29. A first investment is an investment in new tangible and intangible assets that are eligible costs related to: 1. creation of a new production site; 2. increasing the capacity of an existing production site; 3. diversification of production of a production site with products that do not produce; 4. a substantial change in the overall production process of an existing production site. It is not an initial investment investment in an asset that replaces an asset that is an asset. (c) point 64 is amended as follows: It's 64. The Member States/territories which are not Member States of the European Union and do not exchange information with the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of Council Directive 2011/16/EU of 15 February 2011 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and repealing Directive 77/799/EEC (OJ L 64/1 of 11 March 2011). and its subsequent amendments and additions and meet two of the following conditions: (a) there is no agreement in force to avoid double taxation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the State/territory concerned or to enter into force a bilateral or multilateral agreement on the exchange of information upon request between the Republic of Bulgaria or the European Union and the State/territory concerned; (b) there has been an agreement in force to avoid double taxation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the State/territory concerned or to enter into force a bilateral or multilateral agreement on the exchange of information between the Republic of Bulgaria or the European Union and the State/territory concerned, but the State/territory concerned refuses or is unable to exchange information on request; (c) the income or corporate tax due or their income tax substitute under art. 12, para. 9 or under art. 8, para. 11 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, which the foreign person has or will have implemented, is more than 60 percent lower than the income or corporate tax on these incomes in the Republic of Bulgaria. The list of States/territories shall be validated by an order of the Minister of Finance on a proposal from the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency and shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. (d) points 73 and 74 are amended as follows: It's 73. The date of granting of the aid shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union art. 189b is 31 December of the year for which corporate tax is granted and for the purposes of art. 189 is the date of the order under art. 189, p. 1 letter (b). 74. "Big enterprises" for the purposes of art. 189b are undertakings which do not meet the criteria set out in Annex I to Commission Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 of 25 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and in rural areas compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and repealing Commission Regulation (EU) No 1857/2006 (OJ L 193/1 of 1 July 2014.), and for the purposes of art. 184 in conjunction with Art. In addition, the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid measures with the internal market is based on an assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and on the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and on the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.) is used in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.) and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.), and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, etc.). (e) create a t. 76-82: ..76. "Initiation of implementation" for the purposes of art. 189 is the start of construction works on the initial investment or making the first legally binding commitment to order tangible or intangible assets or other commitments that make the initial investment irreversible, regardless of their chronological order. The purchase of land and preparatory activities, such as obtaining a permit and carrying out feasibility studies, are not considered to be the start of the project implementation. 77. Manufacture of synthetic fibres for the purposes of art. 182, para. 1, t. 1 are those within the meaning of Annex IV to the Regional Aid Guidelines 2014-2020. 78. For the purposes of the tax relief, which constitutes State aid for regional development, the group concerned shall be the persons falling within one of the relations under § 1, item 1. 4 of the Additional Provisions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 79. A single investment project is each initial investment carried out by the same taxable person (at group level) within three years from the date of the start of the implementation of another assisted investment in the same NUTS region, level 3, determined under Regulation (EC) No 1059/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 establishing a common classification of territorial units for statistical purposes. 80. For the purposes of art. 182, para. 1, t. 1 is the carriage of passengers with aircraft, marine, land and rail transport and inland waterway transport or freight services on a foreign account or for remuneration. 81. "Airports" for the purposes of point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 28 are those under the Community guidelines on the application of Articles 92 and 93 of the EC Treaty and of Article 61 of the EEA Agreement on State aid to the aviation sector and the Community guidelines on the financing of airports and on the granting of State initial aid to airlines operating at regional airports, as amended or replaced. 82. For the purposes of point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the following definitions shall apply: 29 is a designated place by which a taxable person carries out a production activity, such as: workshop, factory, workshop (factory) or any other establishment through which production is carried out. 2. In § 2 after the words "OJ', L 141/30 of 28 May 2013 the words "Council Directive 2014/86/EU of 8 July 2014 amending Directive 2011/96/EU on the common system of taxation of parent and subsidiary companies from different Member States' are replaced by the words "Commission Directive 2014/86/EU of 8 July 2014 amending Directive 2011/96/EU on the common system of taxation of parent and subsidiary companies from different Member States' (OJ L 219/40 of 25 July 2014). and Council Directive (EU) 2015/121 of 27 January 2015 amending Directive 2011/96/EU on the common system of taxation of parent and subsidiary companies from different Member States (OJ L 21/1 of 28 January 2015).)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u21	Thank you. Statements on the paragraph? I don't see anyone who wants to. Colleagues, we are voting § 14 by importer, edited by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u22	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act (en. DV, No. 100 of 2013; amended, No. 105 of 2014 and No. 22 from 2015) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Paragraph 14, the second sentence is amended as follows: ? the relief under art. 184 State aid for regional development may apply to initial investment projects which have started since the entry into force of the State aid scheme and after the submission of an application form for aid but before 1 January 2021 2. Paragraphs 15 and 16 are amended as follows: ...... 15.................................................... The tax relief under art. 184, which the Minister of Finance has notified to the European Commission in accordance with art. 8 of the State Aid Act, which constitutes State aid for regional development, shall enter into force after a positive decision has been given by the European Commission on its compliance with the Regional Aid Guidelines 2014-2020. The corporate tax for 2015 shall be passed on if an application form has been submitted within 1 January 2016 to 29 February 2016, there shall be approval by the Bulgarian Investment Agency until 31 March 2016 and all the conditions of this law for the application of the tax relief constituting State aid for regional development have been fulfilled, and for the purposes of art. 184, p. The list of municipalities with an unemployment rate of more than 25 per cent higher than the national average for 2014 shall apply. The withdrawal of advance contributions for 2015 shall not be allowed. After a positive decision has been given by the European Commission, the Minister of Finance should not draw up individual notifications for taxable persons applying art. 184, except those carrying out major investment projects under art. 189. § 16. The right to pass on tax pursuant to art. 184 in conjunction with Art. 189 shall apply until 31 December 2020, including for corporation tax for the year 2020 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u23	Thank you. Statements under § 15 and by the name of Transitional and Final Provisions? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's entry in § 15, edited by the Commission, and the proposed name of the division. They voted 106 MPs: 94, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u24	Paragraph 16. Proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov for new point 1a: 1a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1, t. The following point shall be inserted after point (b) (i) . p) children for treatment when the necessary funds are not fully covered by the State or the State has not granted the funds for the treatment at the time of its initiation.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 16 and shall propose the following wording: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created t. 28: It's 28. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 2. Article 30 is amended as follows: The tax base used for the purposes of this Decision shall be the Art. 30. The annual tax base shall be defined as the taxable income under art. 29 acquired during the tax year is reduced by: 1. the contributions which the self-insuring person is obliged to make for the tax year on his own account and, if the person is not self-insuring, with the compulsory social security contributions on his own account, under the order of the Social Security Code and the Health Insurance Act; 2. the compulsory contributions paid abroad at the expense of the natural person; 3. the contributions which the person is obliged to make for the tax year on his own account according to the order of art. 40, para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act, where taxable income under art. 29 shall be included in the annual levelling of the insurance income. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 shall be added at the end when the income under art. 31 shall be included in the annual levelling of the insurance income. 4. Article 34 is amended as follows: The tax base used for the purposes of this Decision shall be the Art. 34. The annual tax base for income from the transfer of rights or property shall be defined as the taxable income under art. 33 acquired during the tax year is reduced by the contributions which the person is obliged to make for the tax year on his own account in accordance with art. 40, para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act, where taxable income under art. 33 shall be included in the annual levelling of the insurance income. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 shall be added at the end when the income under art. 35 shall be included in the annual levelling of the insurance income. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 9 shall be added at the end. 24, para. 2, p. 12. 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 44a: "Avansov tax on income from other sources under art. 35 Art. 44a. (1) The monetary income under art. 35 shall be taxed in advance when the paying agent of the income is an undertaking or self-insuring entity. The amount of tax shall be calculated as the taxable income under art. 35 is multiplied by a tax rate of 10 percent. (2) The tax under para. 1 shall be determined and withheld by the payer of the income upon payment. (3) When a recipient of the income under art. 35 is a person with 50 per cent and over 50 per cent reduced working capacity, tax under para. 1 is due after the taxable income of the person from all sources of income acquired from the beginning of the tax year and subject to tax on the total annual tax base, reduced by the deducted or paid on behalf of the person compulsory social contributions, exceeds BGN 7920. In such cases, the person acquiring the income shall certify the degree of reduced operational capacity valid at the date/dates of the payment of the income, an expert decision of TelK/NELK, a copy of which shall be presented once to the payer of the income, where it is obliged to deduct and import the tax. (4) The tax under para. 1 shall be imported within the time limits and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 65 and 66. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 7 after the words 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 12 and 13 words................................................................................................ 43, para. Art. 4 and art. 44, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official 10. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments: (a) c. 11 (a) (b) the words "shares and rights' shall be replaced by "shares, rights and government securities'; (b) point 27 is amended as follows: "27." The worker is: (a) any resident, foreign person operating through a place of business or a defined base within the territory of the country, as well as a commercial representation under the Investment Promotion Act that employs natural persons on employment or is a party to a contract for the provision of personnel by a foreign person; (b) diplomatic representation of another State which has chosen to determine, to deduct and to import income tax under this heading. 26, concluded with local natural persons in connection with the functions performed by him in the Republic of Bulgaria. The selection shall be exercised by 31 December of the previous year and the representation shall notify the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency that it wishes to deduct and levy tax under this law on local staff. The selection shall apply to an indefinite number of tax years without interruption and may be terminated if the diplomatic representation of the National Revenue Agency so informs the competent territorial directorate by 30 November of the previous year. 11. Everywhere in the law, the word "Publican" is replaced by the word "Publisher." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u25	Statements? Mr. Slavov, come in. You have an unsupported offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A short time ago, we voted a similar proposal with our colleague Dimitrov, which was at the CCCI, I think 15 "20 votes" were not enough for him to be accepted. Here the proposal is almost identical, only that it concerns individuals, that is, when they have again made a donation in favour of a sick child for treatment - whether abroad or in our health institution, when the State has not provided the funds, to be able to use a minimum tax preference - to be reduced by 5 per cent of the annual tax base. I think that as an effect on the fissure it will be negligible, but as a positive gesture to people who really donate and separate from their modest incomes to help needy and sick children, it will be appreciated, and quite well. I suggest we support him here so we can see the effect. If the Fisk had any concerns about legal entities and was therefore rejected at the CDC, we could support it peacefully here. The effect will indeed be extremely negligible for the fissure, and the benefit and promotion of donation is expected to be substantial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there lines? There are no line requests. Another statement? People's representative Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that the group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposals made by colleagues Slavov and Dimitrov. It's about, first of all, a humane gesture, colleagues, to help the treatment of children. By the way, I would like to remind you that during the year events such as the Bulgarian Christmas are constantly being organized, I do not know what else is going on via SMS and millions of funds are being collected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these campaigns are exempt from VAT, which is 20% tax. So there is no problem to release them, which I also support, and I think it is a good thing to support the state's functions in terms of children's health, and here we are talking about 5% of individuals who, unfortunately, are not quite so much We must face such people, encourage them, even with this minimal gesture. I call on all of us to support this proposal because it is indeed very good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u29	Thank you. - What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u30	First of all, I would like to say that I am also for such relief, which supports families with children in need of treatment, but I cannot agree with the proposal made here, despite the fact that Mr. Bajraktarov thus defended him. Of course, from the top to the top, things look good. First of all, we should not forget that in the Law on Taxation, we have a tax relief for donations, which are precisely for donations to the benefit of the Center for the Treatment of Children and the Fund for Assisted Benefits, through which a similar donation can be made to families who need it. I believe that granting tax relief on tax relief, without being clear about what, because here we are talking about Unfortunately, we have many cases that are cited by this tribune when such assistance is unlawfully used by people who really do not need it. A lot of other questions need to be asked. For example, should we assist in treating a child if his parents have not chosen the path provided by the National Health Insurance Fund, including through treatment abroad and so on? In this sense, I believe that it is not appropriate to give a preference on a preference, to provide reliefs on relief, without it being clearly and categorically justified, not to mention that there is no justification in terms of the impact that this proposal could have had. I urge you to vote abstention!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u31	Thank you. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, in some of your arguments it really makes sense, only you seem to be a little superficial about things without wanting to insult you. Pay attention to colleagues, there is an opportunity for tax relief if you donate the money to the Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad. First of all...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u33	It's not a fund for treating children abroad, I said who the funds are. Dimitar Bajraktarov: First, this Fund has been torn apart for years by scandals about improper spending of funds. For years! Secondly, this Fund by some strange criteria distributes funds that are first provided by the state and, if there are people, and they have already refused and donated to this Fund because they have seen what is happening. I myself have arranged treatment for a child in Germany for the reason that the Fund had practically condemned him to a severe fate, so to speak. Thanks to the specialists in Germany, the child is alive and well, they saved him in exactly 20 days. So what we're proposing is not meaningless. It is entirely within the framework of turning our face to such people who are willing to donate, and the treatment is proved by documents and all these things we have provided for them both in the Health Insurance Act and in the Medical Institutions Act. Colleagues who are in the Health Commission know very well that we have foreseen all this documentation to be provided against me is Dr. Daritkova, there was even a very serious dispute about what documents to be issued by both the personal doctors and the Health Insurance Fund in order to be able to prove the need for one treatment. So here you've missed the matter a little bit. REPORT MENDA STANDING [[from place.]] I want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u34	You can't ask for a personal explanation with the doppelganger. REPORT MENDA STANDING [[from place]] : Yes, but you called me superficial.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u35	I didn't call you superficial.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u36	Thanks for the douche. The next statement is the People's Representative Mikhail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We from BSP left Bulgaria will support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u38	He's got shit!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u39	Don't call! You have the right to speak. Take your word and don't sit there like a quack and just a quack. [[Noise and laughter in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u40	Mr. Mikov, don't take my functions! Mrs. Stoyanova, please don't call from the spot! Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u41	We will support this text because it is an attitude towards those children whose parents are circling all those institutions which Mrs. Stoyanova listed, who cannot deal with the big problem of treating children in the poorest country. You must have connections, or any MP, or anyone else to help you. In our country, these systems don't work practically. Therefore, it is very good to accept such tax relief as colleagues Slavov and Dimitrov suggested so that donors can really have more confidence when providing their funds specifically and not abstractly. No preferences on preferences shall be obtained in any way. On the contrary, two parallel regimes are created and I do not believe there are parents in Bulgaria who will start to abuse this type of preference when it comes to the health of their children. That's ridiculous, twisted thought. The state cannot cope with those who drain VAT cannot deal with the big smugglers, but is afraid that parents whose children need treatment will not abuse tax preferences. Such thinking cannot be classified in any other way but as extremely perverse. We will support the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u42	Thank you. A line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u43	Thank you. I didn't mean to speak, but because you didn't give me a personal explanation, because Mr. Bayraktarov said that I look at things superficially, and he looks at them thoroughly. First of all, I mean, he's wrong about the funds. I explicitly said that this is not about the Fund for the Treatment of Children Abroad, but about the Fund for the Treatment of Children Abroad or the Fund for Assisted. Secondly, I would like to say that, in contrast to assessing whether a child needs treatment and giving him the appropriate preference, there are medical professionals and a committee who can judge and determine whether this is really an important treatment, do the parents of this child need this assistance, and the one who makes this donation should be exempt from tax. Without sounding like Mr. Mikov was trying to suggest that there is cynicism in what I'm going to say, namely that we are opening a hole because, Mr. Mikov, unfortunately, it is terrible to use your children and their disease in order to gain some benefits, but here we all know that such a thing is being used in the case of disability certification of children, especially in families of minority groups. Nobody's denying that. The problem with the high rate of disability of both adults and children is a problem that the whole society understands and which we have been tasked with, respectively the Minister of Health, to fight. In our case, we open another hole in which, instead of medical personnel assessing whether there is really a need for such treatment, we leave to the judgment of a company manager because usually companies donate, or a natural person, to assess whether there is a need for treatment, is there a need for such a donation for treatment. I believe that the text is not perfected, the text is written in prima vista and if there is to be such a text, it should be accompanied by an impact assessment and with more serious requirements for such a donation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u44	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u45	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I cannot agree with you that the text has been written to Prima Vista and has not been crafted. By the way, if you make a reference, you will see that we have introduced a whole separate bill that deals with this particular matter and which is aged in the National Assembly's Law for nearly one year. By the way, it was right to examine the entire bill along with the tax laws package, but, for one reason or another, it dropped out. To some extent, and that is why we have imported it between the two readings, so there has indeed been enough time to hold a serious debate, including if it is necessary to take and supplement expert opinions, what we have done, of course, informally in the Reformation bloc. There's one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. It was mentioned here about the Fund for Treatment abroad and about the Fund Guaranteed. Take a look in the Law there the preference is of 50%. Not from five, but from fifty! Here we are talking about a modest 5% that a donor in favor of a sick child who needs a child could use. I can't imagine who this person would be who would go after such a matter and almost abuse his children and challenge, I would say, God's wrath claims that they are sick, and they are actually healthy, and trying to take advantage of this thing. Moreover, this is about such a small tax relief against the backdrop of these 50% for the large funds, which it has been mentioned that I do not really expect the fiscal effect personally to be tangible at all, so bear in mind that if someone wants to abuse, there are a bunch of other options in the Law, at the moment, unfortunately, acting because this modest 5% relief can currently be enjoyed if it is donated to a nursery, to a kindergarten, to a registered religion and so on and so forth. I mean, there are so many loopholes if someone decides to abuse it, they're not going to lie about a child being sick and taking advantage of it accordingly. Besides, as you know, this can always be checked. There is always medical documentation for the treatment of a child or any patient at all. It's very easy to tell whether he was ill or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u46	Second line please, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Stoyanova, I did not correctly ask for a personal explanation because I think that this dialogue should be conducted correctly. Mrs. Stoyanova, you know that at this time people who donate for treatment pay 10% tax on this donation. In other words, if you purchase some expensive device for a child, you will pay, and these devices, for example, for hearing and others, there are some very expensive ones that are implanted in the head, cost in the order of 15.. 20 thousand. BGN, and you're paying for the fact that you have done? notice, colleagues, 10% tax! And now we turn to these people and we want to give them a 5% relief. And I don't know why that is, I don't know what to call it!? It's the truth! It's the truth, and it's the money that once the tax is withheld, you then pay a second time for doing good. So how do we characterize this thing?! And you know it very well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u48	There's no third line. The hole is Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u49	Dear colleagues, I think that you are simply being misled by this tribune and I would like to read the texts of the Law: the tax relief for donation is granted when the person donates: to health institutions under the Health Act, that is to say to any health institution you can donate to this health institution when they go to the sick to use these amounts precisely for their treatment; to medical establishments; to specialized institutions for the provision of social services, under the Social Assistance Act, and to the Social Assistance Agency and Social Protection Fund. The specialized institutions for children under the Child Protection Act, as well as to parental care homes, nurses, kindergartens, schools, the Bulgarian Red Cross. Should I list more? Do you know where the difference is? In other words, such opportunities exist and they are provided for in the Law. The difference is that there's a judgment of specialists here. There is also institutionality that distributes this donation, and what is offered to us remains the subjective assessment of the donor and of the gifted. And is it the tax officer who will decide whether the treatment documents are appropriate or not, is there any or no such documents? Therefore, all these reliefs are institutionalized in order for the institution concerned, the relevant organisation in which social workers or health workers work, to properly distribute this donation to the one who has a real need and proven need for it, so we are not talking about what the replicators were talking about here. There are such reliefs and they are a fact. And they're institutionalized. Don't open the door for subjective judgements on face A to face B, because we're stuck with these subjective judgments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u50	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going into an emotional debate, I just want to say this. You understand the difference between what we say and what Mrs. Stoyanova said. We want a personal donation to a particular child, not a donation to an institution, and she wants to evaluate how to spend the money because the donation is personal, after all. This is a personal gesture from one person to a particular child with problems. And when money is donated to an institution, to tell you the truth, there is also the question of how to spend it, so individualization, the opportunity to help the particular child with the particular problem is something that needs to be done. Even if you don't now, now you won't accept it, it will be accepted! Donation is personal. Mrs. Stoyanova convinces us that it should be donated to institutions and that they should assess from there how to spend the money. Donations must become personal, for the individual, for the particular child, for the particular problem, so eventually you see with your money what has been achieved and you can see this child after your donation how it has been treated and how, God forbid, his condition has improved. You understand the difference between the two concepts. That is why we are addressing all the parliamentary groups to do a good deed today! Let's do a good deed together that won't have a serious budgetary impact. Don't worry. A good deed to be supported by all parliamentary groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u52	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u53	I do not deny the good deed of donations and donation. On the contrary, we must encourage them, but there must be rules for this donation, rules for who receives this donation, whether it is needed or not. And what Mr. Dimitrov said is indicative. He insists on having the subjective assessment, the personal assessment of the donor to whom exactly to donate and for what, because the word "receiving" is very wide. And I, like many others, hope that my colleagues do not deny that there are many institutions in Bulgaria that are not only state, they are also public. There are many non-governmental organisations dealing with social assistance, helping families who need such assistance, not only in social and health terms. And these organisations need to be supported because it is through them that the right decisions can be made, so here we are really talking about the same thing, but we are talking about the way this thing has to happen. Because subjective judgment is very often an opportunity for abuse. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u54	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u55	Dear colleagues, after Mrs. Stoyanova's remark, the situation is even clearer. See where our differences come from. She says so: You donate money, and although you are the giver, you will not decide where to go. The house will make this decision for you. Yes, you are a donor and you want to donate, but you cannot do it for a particular child and for a particular problem. You will donate, so says Mrs. Stoyanova, to the appropriate establishment and it will decide how to spend your money. This reduces, colleagues, incentives for donation. I want to donate to a particular child and then I want to see this particular child after my donation, I want to see the results for it, I want to see that it's better. I am telling you directly: many people do not trust hospitals to distribute this money as they decide. It is much fairer, much more responsible is the will of the donor to be respected, and it can be directed towards a particular child with a particular problem. Let them have both modes in the competitive order of which they want, there is the current order, to donate to medical institutions. But let there be this opportunity when one of you or a Bulgarian citizen wants, or whoever it is, to donate to a particular child for a particular problem, to have this opportunity. This will encourage donation in Bulgaria. I'm sorry there's so much debate about one subject that's obvious. Once again, even for a reason today you do not support it, tomorrow this will be accepted, as it is logical that donations around the world are personal. A lot of donations have a personal nature, and when you try to bypass that order and say: let the establishments receive the money and they decide how to spend it, this order is worse. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to do the good deed in question and to vote on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u56	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u57	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I didn't mean to say anything, but in the end, I was provoked by this discussion. I am outraged, excuse me, from Mrs. Stoyanova's position. I won't try to convince her. She may have the right as a financier, as a person who thinks about possible prevention of abuse, that such a change in the Law should not be allowed, but I am addressing you...........................don't allow the state institutions to interfere in interhuman relations. The case Mr. Bayraktarov is talking about, our colleague. I've personally made donations for about 15 grand. lv. of a child who couldn't hear, with an implant in his head and other machines. Why? Because, firstly, the state did not take on this activity and, secondly, there was a very high risk of abuse, as these devices were offered at different prices How can I agree that this donation should go through an institution?? This institution, which does not do its job, which it cannot provide, or if it provides, is not known at what price and where will it import this facility from? That's why I made the donation myself and bought this facility. We have other cases like this. Our parliamentary group, for example, donated 18,000. lv. For a child, too. I don't see why in any way the state should stick itself in these interhuman relationships. On the contrary, I even appeal for a change that would allow a donation not only to children but also to people who do not have the means to buy them, such as joints. We have also made donations to joints because they are not in the capacity of an ordinary person or of a pensioner, and most often at adulthood these disabilities occur. We must not allow the state to interfere like this to send you somewhere, to go to some institution and to pay, including the support of its administration. What do you mean?! I appeal to you - vote on your conscience, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u58	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 132 MPs: for 67, against 2, abstention 63. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from RB.]] You have the floor. [[Sighs:.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Since there are colleagues who have failed to vote, I propose a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u60	Rethinking the proposal of Mr. Slavov and Mr. Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 145 MPs: for 70, against 5, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" and banging on the banks of BSP LB. Noise and lines.]] Show the results in groups. [[(Shouting from BSP LB: ABB! ABB!]] Is that all you guys know about the alphabet? Go to the end. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I shall put to the vote § 16 in its version of the Commission report and § 17 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 91, against 24, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u61	Paragraph 18? a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The proposals referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be made on the basis of the proposals referred to in point (a) The Commission supports the proposals under this item. 4 and 5. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 1, t. 4. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 18 and shall propose the following wording: .............................................................................. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 is The tax exemption under para. 1, t. 18 and 19 shall not apply where the building has received a energy class certificate as a result of energy efficiency measures financed by public funds. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 4. For real estate acquired during the current year, the tax shall be paid within the time limits laid down in para. 1 and in cases where the acquisition is after the expiry of the time limits under para. 1, the tax shall be paid within two months of the date of the acquisition of the property. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1. 1 words are deleted and finally added to the State Agency for the implementation of the activities defined by law. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and amended as follows: No municipal waste charge shall be collected for services provided to prayer homes, temples and monasteries where worship is carried out by legally registered religions in the country, together with land-based properties on which they are situated; (b) the creation of para. 2: The exemption referred to in paragraph 2 shall be granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 is provided that the property does not enjoy a business purpose unrelated to their direct worship activity. 5. In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees ( SG No. 101 from 2013: (a) in § 13 the words (b) in § 13a, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u62	Statements under § 18? I won't. Please vote. Vote 113 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u63	According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 19 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u64	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 19 by importer. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u65	Under § 20, there is a proposal by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 19:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u66	We vote. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u67	Under § 21, there is a proposal of the National Representative Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. 5 and supports the proposal in the rest of it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's the offer. Proposal by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Nastimir Ananiev's proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. 5 and supports the proposal in the rest of it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Point 5 (b) is deleted. Proposal by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of Stoyanova and Yordanova. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. Stoyanova's proposal, made in the order of art. 80, para. 1, t. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 20, and shall propose the following version: .................................................................................. In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. 63...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 4 is created t. 3: "3." the separation or supply of goods for personal use or use to the taxable person, to the owner, to his workers and employees or for purposes other than the independent economic activity of the taxable person caused by extreme need or force. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 4 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. the provision of a personal service to the taxable person, the owner, his workers and employees or for purposes other than the independent economic activity of the taxable person caused by extreme need or force. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." the goods are dispatched or transported by or on behalf of the supplier from the territory of the country. (b) in para. 2 is created t. 3: "3." Transport ends in the territory of the country. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 3 is created t. 7. "7." the last day of the month during which the service under art. 9, para. 3, p. One and two. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2: (aa) A new sentence is created second: When determining the amount of direct costs incurred for the goods used, which are or would be fixed assets within the meaning of the Corporate Income Tax Act, if used in the activity of the person, account shall be taken of the cost of their use as part of the tax base on which a full or partial tax credit has been deducted, calculated for each tax period according to the linear method for a period of 5 years from the tax period during which the right of the tax credit has been exercised, including for movable items, respectively for a period of 20 years, for immovable property. (bb) a third sentence shall be created: the cost of the use of a property right on a commodity shall be determined for the period for which the law is established, but not more than the relevant years under the sentence in question. (c) the previous sentence second becomes the fourth sentence; (b) the creation of para. 6: In the cases referred to in art. 9, para. 3, p. 1 and 2 for the simultaneous use of goods and/or services and for independent economic activity for the purposes of determining direct costs under para. Second sentence, first, second and third, the tax base shall be distributed proportionately depending on the degree of use of the relevant commodity and/or service for the personal needs of the owner, employees or for purposes other than independent economic activity. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the provision of medical care by a medical professional under the Health Act. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1, t. 4 after the word the contract is added the service by works. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 2 words shall be deleted with accuracy. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 3 is created t. 4. "4." the person provides access to the railway infrastructure and has used funds under projects financed under Operational Programme 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 114. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156, para. 3, p. 2 is finally added to the Bulgarian bank or branch of a foreign bank in the Republic of Bulgaria. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 159e is created screeding tax by a person registered on the basis of art. 154 or for the implementation of a regime within the Union or a regime outside the Union in another Member State, shall be reimbursed to a bank account other than an account in a Bulgarian bank or a branch of a foreign bank in the Republic of Bulgaria, with all bank charges relating to the reimbursement of the tax and the exchange of the currency at the expense of the person. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: In case of repeated infringement, the amount of the fine or penalty is double the amount of the unpaid tax, but not less than 1000 BGN.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) paragraphs 3 and 4 are amended as follows: In the event of an infringement under para. 1 where the registered person has charged the tax within 6 months of the end of the month in which the tax should have been charged, the fine, respectively the penalty shall be 5 per cent of the tax, but not less than 200 levs, and in case of repeated infringement not less than 400 levs. (4) In the event of violation of para. 1 when the registered person has charged the tax after the term under para. 3, but not later than 18 months from the end of the month in which the tax was to be charged, the fine, respectively the penalty payment, shall be 10 percent of the tax, but not less than 400 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement not less than 800 BGN. 14. In § 32 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax (Art. 105 from 2014) in the text before t. 1 the words "the person' shall be replaced by the person registered for the application of a regime in the Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u68	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u69	Mrs. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as you know, we are about to adopt the budget. If the Constitution has to exist to have a state, then the Constitution of the Government is the budget. So one little thing. In this regard, I have endeavoured, since before the budget we are adopting tax laws, to make several proposals. I'm going to give you exactly the reasons for this proposal. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses, I suggested ports without equipment, if someone unloads, to suffer a double penalty, to increase other sanctions. I also had a suggestion that I might have to explain to you to calm down. It was for the cauldrons over 500 liters. I've heard all sorts of things but the truth. So it's time to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u70	Mr. Dimitrov, we are discussing the amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u71	I'm making the transition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u72	It was a very long transition, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u73	I've got five minutes now, don't stop me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u74	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u75	That's it! The truth is, colleagues, because you're interested in asking me all the time that we lied to legal manufacturers that we were going to press illegals. Because legal people buy grapes, pay them, pay salaries and insurance, staff, tax collectors, labor inspectorate, and finally give us 185 million. Here, because of that 185 million, so that we can get it back in the next year, we've created rules so that one of the others, if he wants to, can bring in a couple of dollars. Then, for good reason, were the revenues there? No, gentlemen! The revenues are in the fuels. The huge source of income is the tankers that are coming. Now, at the moment, there is an inequality. Each gas station was in the village, whether in the city, or in the center of Sofia, there are measuring instruments, and the oil bases do not. So my proposal today, I'm going to read you the reasons, is this: Proposal for annulment of the regime under art. 118, para. 7 of the Law on Value Added Tax on Oil Bases, as a measure the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency to exercise more effective control. Thus, oil bases will apply the general regime for the recording and reporting of supplies, respectively the sales of liquid fuels in commercial sites through fiscal devices, electronic systems, fiscal memory to account for the turnover of the sale of liquid fuels through appliances approved under the law. The National Revenue Agency. They will transmit data to the NRA, including data that enables the determination of the available quantities of fuels in storage tanks at liquid fuel trading sites. The general regime that has been implemented so far has been important for petrol stations, methane stations, gas stations and other fuel trading sites. We now apply this common regime, which is for everyone else, to also apply to the largest gas stations of the oil trade bases. In the light of the above, it is necessary to repeal a definition of an oil base pursuant to § 1, item 1. 68 of the Additional provisions of the Law and a six-month transitional period is provided for the persons using the regime to bring their activities into line within a normal, reasonable period, to the one that all other sites in Bulgaria apply. My proposal is for § 21 by importer to become § 20 in the version of the Commission and to create the following new points: 10a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 118. 7 is 13a. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 68 to be withdrawn. Colleagues, I hope it is clear to all of you that the revenue part of the budget is extremely important. I will not rule on expenditure, and before we start allocating funds, we must create a level playing field for commercial sites and equal control everywhere, and not for the final gas station to have, and for the big gas station not to have. That is, I want a uniform regime, a level playing field for all commercial entities, so that we can collect our revenue, and then, of course, hope that the budget will be balanced and aligned accordingly. Thank you all and I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I understand your proposal is editorial, I have it with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u78	I have a proposal with me. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we must vote on two, unsupported by the Commission, the text. We are voting on the proposal of MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u79	In the part not supported by the Commission. It is supported, only at one point is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u80	We vote. They voted 112 MPs: 14 against 47, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. We are voting unsupported by the Commission, the proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u81	It's supported, only in point. 5 is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u82	That's right... does not support the proposal under point. The rest is supported. We are voting on the proposal in the unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 110 MPs: 33, against 6, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the editorial proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in § 21 by importer, which becomes § 20 in the version of the Commission, to create new points, they are listed, he mentioned them. 10a and so on. 13a. Vote 117 MPs: 100 against 8, abstention 9. Editorial proposal accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 20 by the version of the Commission together with Mr. Dimitrov's newly voted editorial proposal, which was adopted. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u83	Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova, which has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer of art. 22 and suggests that he be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u84	Statements? I can't see. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u85	They're withdrawing him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u86	I withdraw the vote on this unsupported paragraph. We vote on the final text of the importer, not supported by the Commission for § 22, which the Commission proposes to reject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u87	What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u88	We vote by importer the text on § 22, which the Commission proposes to reject, a proposal from the Commission to reject § 22. They voted 114 MPs: 95, against 12, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject the paragraph has been adopted. Proceed with § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u89	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 23 and proposes to reject it. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u90	You have the floor to speak on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u91	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to this House that the Commission had rejected § 23 in connection with the rejection of point. 13 (b) and (c) 21, point (c) of the importer's text. Since we just accepted Mr. Dimitrov's proposal, we must now return § 23 because they are connected. Otherwise, you get a nonsense. In this regard, I propose that we vote § 23 by importer, that is to say put to the vote § 23 in its import text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u92	I must put to the vote before I give the floor for lines, your motion for rejection, which must therefore be rejected in this House. Replies to this proposal? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting to support Mrs. Menda Stoyanova § 23 by importer. Vote 110 MPs: 94 against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal § 23 to be rejected. However, given the previous vote, do not take into account the Commission's proposal. [[Laughter, excitement.]] They voted 108 MPs: 18, against 70, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We've been through this complicated maneuver successfully, moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u93	Proposal by the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In the National Revenue Agency Act (promise, SG...) in art. 25a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. The current text becomes para. 1 and in it, after the word "the agency" is added "access to". 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: The Agency's authorities and staff are required to keep the secret of the information received and to use it only for the purposes of their inspections and revisions. (3) The order and the way to provide the information shall be determined by a joint instruction of the Executive Director and the Director of BNB, responsible for the information system under art. 56 of the Credit Institutions Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u94	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 21. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u95	Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is to drop the paragraph. Proposal from the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on limitation of payments in cash (promise, SG...), in art. 3 everywhere the number..15 000.. is replaced by.10 000...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u96	Statements? There aren't any. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 33, against 54, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for § 24, which in the version of the Commission becomes § 22. We are voting edited by the Commission paragraph. Vote 124 MPs: 104 against 14, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please report the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u97	According to § 25 "A proposal from the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u98	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the last paragraph, which, on a proposal from the Commission, becomes § 23 and is edited by it. 110 MPs voted: 103, none against abstention 7. The proposal has been adopted, with which the current Bill has also been adopted at second reading. I give the floor to the MP Mr Lutvi Mestan for a declaration on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will present to you a position of the DSS Parliamentary Group on the case of the downed Russian aircraft. Our position naturally reflects the identity of DPS as a consistent Euro-Atlantic party of Bulgaria. Firstly, it is an indisputable fact that in the last month, Russian military aviation has violated the airspace of the Republic of Turkey repeatedly. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP LB is leaving the hall.]] Secondly, there is information that this has happened despite also repeated official warnings addressed to the Russian ambassador in Ankara and to the military attaché. Thirdly, these facts are confirmed in NATO's official position, expressed at the extraordinary meeting of the ambassadors of the member states, which once again recognises the right of each state to defend its sovereignty. Fourth, the violation of the airspace and the sovereignty of any state - a member of NATO - is the violation of the space and sovereignty of the Atlantic Union itself. I stress that even within NATO, the passage of the Allied military forces and the armed forces is subject to the explicit agreement of the respective member country. Fifthly, the efforts of non-NATO countries are undoubtedly necessary for the effective countering of the Islamic State, because ISIL is a challenge not only against Euro-Atlanticism but against modern civilization and humanity. Sixth, the fight against the State of Islam, including military, should be carried out in strict coordination between all parties and in strict compliance with international law, including the territorial integrity and sovereignty of each country. Seventhly, the participation in military activities of any State against the Islamic State............................................................................................................................................................ The regime of Bashar Assad cannot be a participant in the fight against the Islamic State (Islamic State) because precisely this regime and the Islamic State (Islamic State) are the main cause of the unprecedented military conflict in the Middle East, the consequence of which is the huge refugee crisis that shakes Europe and the Balkans. Ninth, we are calling for an even more active dialogue on NATO and European Union member states to develop a common policy and concretely decisive countering the expansion of the Islamic State and the growing terrorist aggression. Tenth, we support NATO's call for a de-escalation of relations between Russia and Turkey and for a return to political dialogue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Lutvi Mestan. The following is a declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I saw that my colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and left the Chamber as Mr. Mestan spoke. Apparently, they wanted to express their attitude towards the just heard unilateral approach to events that are developing at the Turkish-Syrian border. We, of course, strongly advocate the principle of territorial integrity and integrity of borders, both in Europe and in other regions, but what happened yesterday requires a very clear international response. It must include both the European Union and NATO, but come out of these relatively closed borders. We expect an independent international investigation to be conducted of exactly the circumstances of the overthrow of the Russian military aircraft, because these actions are developing in an area that requires understanding what exactly military actions have been carried out, whether and how the borders of a neighbouring country have been violated and how the airspace has been used in this region. No State may claim control over territories beyond its own borders. It is clear that an armed civil war has been going on in Syria for a long time. There are government forces fighting in it, there is an armed opposition in it. To put on any additional adjectives is unnecessary and misleading. I do not want to extend in this case to what are the reasons for this internal national conflict, what are all the reasons for it, but it is clear that the territory of Syria is now becoming a ground for international military action. In other words, the conflict from internal and national states is gaining more and more global dimension. It extends parts of the so-called Islamic State and these actions are far from limited to the territory of Syria. The Russian Federation intervened in this conflict with military means. We witnessed tragic acts just a few days ago in Paris. We see that at the moment the big question is being raised in the world: will a global anti-terrorist coalition be formed to include the countries of the European Union, the United States, Russia and other significant international factors, because what happened yesterday, in any case raises new questions can the international community join together in countering this greatest danger. Therefore, here, from this tribune, we do not want to be lawyers in just one national position, in the position of one state, whoever it is. We require the Bulgarian Parliament and government to be aware that for Bulgaria these conflicts also create potential dangers. We are ready to support any effort to resolve such a conflict. We are here to establish lasting peace and progressive development in the world, because the military escalation that has been continuing in recent times, the overall destabilization of the Middle East region and of North Africa has led to nothing good and are endangering the lives and health of hundreds of thousands and millions of people in Europe and throughout the world. That's what they need to know. I call for a Bulgarian national position to be formed behind which the parliament, the government and the President will stand first and foremost. And here the attempts of some or other parliamentary groups to speak primarily on behalf of some of the factors, to speak even on behalf of international organisations is far from enough. Because calls for some Euro-Atlantic solidarity cannot be the only one to solve the problem facing the world, Europe, including Bulgaria! I call on you for such responsible and, above all, national..... behavior in the interest of and in the defence of the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Excuse me, Mr. President, since I am not reading a written statement, the question arises: when military action is being conducted, what rules of war are it permissible to shoot pilots who have escaped the falling plane?! This is not in line with the rules of the Red Cross or what we can call some simple civilization! If there are responsible, they must be brought to justice! They should also be able to participate in the clarification of the case and not be liquidated in this way! So those who call for the protection of human values and rights must bear in mind these circumstances: human life is important whether it happens in Paris, in Africa, in Asia or elsewhere! Every human life for us stands above all other political accounts and speculations! Thank you. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u102	Mr. Bojinov, please! Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Any other affidavits? No requests. Honourable Members, we continue with item two of the agenda: SELECTION OF THE PRESENT AND FOUR MEMBERS OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL. Election procedure under the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 23 September 2015 Before I give the floor to present the report to the Committee on Budget and Finance, I would like to remind you of these Rules: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. I will expect a proposal for candidates to be admitted into this House. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The National Assembly shall elect the President and the four members of the Fiscal Council separately. 6. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where one of the candidates does not receive the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for the vote shall take part. 9. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. These are the Rules we have adopted and are promulgated in the Official Journal. We're following them. First I give the floor to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to report how the hearing took place in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would ask for a procedure in the Chamber to allow candidates for members and chair of the Fiscal Council, namely Mr. Boris Krumov Grozdanov, Mr. Georgi Yordanov Ganev, Mr. Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov, Mr. Dimitar Mihailov Ivanov, Mrs. Dora Atanasova Andreeva, Mr. Lyubomir Vassilev Datsov and Mr. Yunal Tasim Tasim.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u104	Mrs. Margarita Nikolova didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u105	Ms. Margarita Nikolova did not appear at the hearing in the Commission, which is why the Commission does not present her candidacy in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u106	Honourable Members, we are voting for admission to the House of those listed by Mrs. Stoyanova as candidates for members of the Fiscal Council. Vote 98 MPs: 97 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please, Quaestors, provide access to the premises of the listed persons. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, please give us an introduction to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u107	♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidates Boris Krumov Grozdanov, Georgi Yordanov Ganev, Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov, Dimitar Mihaylov Ivanov, Dora Atanasova Andreeva, Lyubomir Vassilev Datsov, Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova and Yunal Tasim for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council At an open meeting held on 3 November 2015 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Chairman and four members of the Fiscal Council under Section III of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President and four members of the Fiscal Council, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that, evidently from the documents presented by all candidates, the same meet the requirements of the Fiscal Council Act and the automatic corrective mechanisms for occupying the position of a member of the Fiskal Council and Boris Grozdanov and Lyubomir Datsov, proposed for Presidents and Chairman of the Fiscal Council, and should be allowed to be heard. The requirements of the Rules of Procedure comply with the disclosure requirements of the documents. By letter No KI-K-15-11290 of 26 October 2015, the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army certify that no documents have been found at present establishing the belonging of all candidates for members of the Fiscal Council to the State Security Authorities and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Ms. Margarita Nikolova did not appear at the hearing, which is why her candidacy was not presented and discussed. The candidates' nominations were presented in alphabetical order to their own names by the importers of the relevant proposals, initially examining the two nominations for President of Mr. Grozdanov and Mr. Datsov and then members of the Fiscal Council. Mr. Boris Grozdanov's candidacy, proposed by the GERB Parliamentary Group, was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Mr. Grozdanov graduated from the Leningrad Institute of Finance and Economics, specialty Finance and Credit. He is a doctor in economics with a protected dissertation at the Industrial Academy. A. Tsenov "Svishtov" town, on the topic "Financial issues for environmental protection". He specialized in state finances in Russia, Germany, England, Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. Mr. Grozdanov is a habilitated lecturer on the State Budget of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. He's been teaching this discipline from 1978 to 1990. During this period he was elected head of postgraduate training in finance and Deputy Dean of the Faculty of Finance. A. Tsenov "Svishtov." Since 1990 he has been working at the Ministry of Finance as a Senior Research Fellow on State Budget at the Research Institute of Finance. He is co-author of developments related to the analysis of the expenditure of the state budget for various periods. He was Deputy Director of the Institute, and later he was the Acting Director of the Institute. I'm going to close it down. As of 3 June 1993, he was appointed Head of the Management Department of Finance in Sofia Municipality, head of 51 employees, preparing and implementing the municipal budget. He was also a member of the Board of Directors of TD Vratitsa. He was also a member of the Board of Directors of TD Vratitsa. Mr. Grozdanov was elected MP in the 41st National Assembly, member of the Committee on Budget and Finance, member of the Committee on Economic Policy, Energy and Tourism and Chairman of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability. Professor. Dr. Boris Grozdanov has lectured on public finances, corporate finances, tax, customs and foreign exchange control, local finance management, analysis of public policies, financial control and auditing standards at a number of universities in the country. In conclusion Mrs. Stoyanova pointed out that Mr. Grozdanov is a proven professional, a person of impeccable reputation and is suitable candidate for Chairman or member of the Fiscal Council. Mr. Lyubomir Datsov's application, proposed by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Dimitar Tanev. Mr. Datsov has extensive professional experience in budget management and fiscal analysis. His career began with the Ministry of Finance in 1992 as an expert in the Department of Budget Policy, where he dealt with macroeconomic forecasts, drawing up and drafting the report on the budgetary policy of the state budget and the medium-term budgetary framework and analysis and evaluation of sectoral policies. From 1997 until 2001, he was head of the Department of Budget Policy and in 2003 he served as Deputy Minister of Finance until 2009, in charge of coordination and planning of budgetary and economic policies and EU funds. From 2009 until now he has been a consultant and Honorary Assistant Assistant at the Faculty of Economics at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Over the years, Mr. Datsov has been the head and coordinator of many projects related to public sector reform and the introduction of budgeting, result-oriented, programmed budgeting. Mr. Georgi Ganev, proposed by the MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Mr. Ganev graduated from his secondary school at the Sofia English High School in 1986. He graduated from Bachelor's degree in Economics and Business Administration at the College of Graceland in Iowa, USA. In 1993 he became a Master of Economics and in 1997 he became a PhD in Economics at the University of Washington in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. Since 1997 he has been an economic analyst at the analytical NGO Centre for Liberal Strategies. As Programme Director for Economic Affairs at the Centre for Liberal Strategies, he has participated in academic type analyses of economic issues, including macroeconomic policy issues, and in particular fiscal policy. In this regard, there are a number of publications devoted to fiscal policy and the budgetary process. Since 1998 he has been a lecturer at the Economics Faculty of the Sofia University of Macroeconomics and Economics of the Financial System. As a lecturer and lecturer he is familiar with the latest theories and exhibitions on macroeconomic analysis and the analysis of the financial system, including issues of public finances, fiscal policy, budget dynamics and its relation to economic processes. In conclusion, Mr. Dimitrov noted that Mr. Ganev is a man of professional experience, an expert with a name in macroeconomics, including fiscal analysis, and could significantly contribute to the activities and reputation of the Fiscal Council as an independent and credible corrective and participant in ensuring effective and sustainable public finances in Bulgaria. Mr. Grigory Vazov's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group "Patriotic Front" was presented by the MP Valeri Simeonov. Assoc. Gregory Vazov is a PhD in Economics, President and Rector of the Higher School of Insurance and Finance (VUZF), Secretary General of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in Bulgaria. His academic career began after graduation in Svishtov. He was a consecutive assistant, senior assistant, senior assistant and associate professor at the Higher Institute of Finance and Accounting. A. Tsenov Svishtov. He was then associate professor and dean of the Faculty of Finance and Accounting at the University of National and World Economy. In 1990 he was a scientific secretary at the National Centre of Management, Sofia. Assoc. Vazov has also worked in the state administration as an adviser to the Minister of Industry and Trade, and in the period 1991 he served as Head of the Management of Financial and Economic Analysis and Regulators in the same Ministry. In 1992 he became Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Industry. His scientific interests are in the field of macroeconomics, the theory of finance, corporate finance, management theory, where he has over 100 scientific work, including self-monographs, three textbooks, a series of articles, scientific reports and reviews. Mr. Dimitar Ivanov's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group "BSP Levia Bulgaria" was presented by the MP Rumen Gechev. Mr. Ivanov has over 38 years of successful professional experience as an economist and macroeconomicist in Bulgaria and abroad. After the political changes in 1989 he was one of the most active participants in the preparation of the new budget laws in the most difficult years as Senior Advisor of the Economic Committees of the 35th and 36th National Assembly. From the end of 1989 to 2000, he was Senior Economic Advisor to the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), Vienna, Austria, and as such he advised at the highest level the Governments of Moldova and Azerbaijan on the transformation of state property. In 2002 as economic adviser to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria contributed qualitatively to a number of important national economic decisions. At this time he is the founder, coordinator and member of the International Economic Council, the initiator and author of the Annual Economic Reports to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Ivanov has over 25 years academic career in Bulgaria as well as in a number of universities in Europe. In Bulgaria he worked as a Research Fellow at the Economic Institute of BAS until 1992, defending a dissertation work and habilitating as a Senior Fellow in the Second Degree. Specialized in the field of international economy, government regulation and macroeconomic policy at the Institute of Political Sciences in Paris, in Washington, in Moscow. In 1991 he was elected guest professor of international business and international economy at Warrick University. He is the author of books and numerous articles, international reports. He is a member of the International Business Academy in the United States, the UK Strategic Planning Society, the Royal Economic Society, the European Economic Association, the American Financial Association. In conclusion, Mr. Gechev voiced confidence that with Mr. Ivanov's candidacy, the parliamentary group of BSP, Levia Bulgaria, offers a proven and experienced macro-economicist who will have a useful role in the first term of the Fiscal Council. Ms. Dora Andreeva's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy, was presented by Mr. Rosen Petrov. Ms. Andreeva is an authoritative financier expert with extensive experience in public finances in public administration and international audit companies. He graduated from the University of National and World Economy with a degree in Finance and Credit. His professional career began in management at the Municipal People's Council for the region of Plovdiv, planning, implementation and reporting of the state budget. In the next 7 years, he expanded his experience in planning, analysis and control of revenue and financial situation at regional level and as chief tax inspector in the tax administration. At the invitation of the international audit company Price Waterhouse Coopers (Price Waterhouse Coopers) as tax manager works with many of the largest foreign investors in Bulgaria. There, as well as in the EUPM, has gained extensive experience in strategic planning, investment and risk assessment in other financial areas as well. As Deputy Minister of Finance 1997, it has a leading role in increasing and stabilising budget revenues and restoring the financial stability of the country. He works together with the International Monetary Fund in forecasting and planning revenue. He is reforming the tax administration in terms of structure and functional activities and management, for which he receives the highest assessment of large-scale reform in Bulgaria by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. In conclusion, Mr. Petrov noted that Mrs. Andreeva has the necessary education, professional experience, personal reputation and authority for taking up the position of member of the Fiscal Council. Mr. Yunal Tasim's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, was presented by the MP Yordan Tsonev. Mr. Tasim has many years of experience in the field of economic analysis and fiscal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. He was elected as a Member of the National Assembly consecutively in three National Assemblys (39th, 40th and 41st). He was Vice-President of the Economic Policy Committee, Chair of the Sub-Committee on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture and Forests. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. He was elected Deputy Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism in 2014. At present he is the Head of Sector of Corporate Clients at the Commercial Bank of DBank. In conclusion, Mr. Tsonev noted that Mr. Tasim has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation for taking up the position of member of the Fiscal Council. Following the submission of the nominations, the personal presentation of the candidates and their concepts of the activities of the Fiscal Council took place. Mr. Chairman, if you would allow me not to read the concepts in detail, as they are in the report and any one of the MPs could...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u108	With one sentence for each candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u109	Okay. I'll try. In his concept Mr. Grozdanov emphasized that he will work to build a high image of the established independent advisory body. According to him, the monitoring that this body will carry out should be divided into preventive and ongoing. Such as: analysis of risks related to the sustainability of public finances; preparation of opinions on budget budgets of the state budget, budget of the State Social Security, the National Health Insurance Fund and the mid-term budgetary forecast; draft laws relating to the state budget, the indicators of budgets included in the consolidated programme and others; implementation of good practices by the Member States of the European Union. The current monitoring shall include the introduction of corrective mechanisms. At the beginning of the presentation of his concept Mr. Datsov explicitly stressed that he maintained the thesis on the preservation of the Currency Board, which is the basis of the economic development of the state, until Bulgaria entered the Eurozone. According to him, the Fiscal Council should be constituted as an active body which is in support of the National Assembly and, in particular, the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will be most effective at the first reading of the budget when discussing its policy and philosophy. According to Mr. Datsov, the Fiscal Council should become a centre for the development of active scientific and analytical activity on budget issues and macroeconomic activities and as a main associate and consultant of the European Commission in the annual assessments regarding Bulgaria. In his concept Mr. Ganev emphasized on the role of the Fiscal Council to resolve the tensions between the short-term and long-term plan in the budgeting of Bulgaria. Regarding the long-term sustainability of public finances, he noted that he saw the role of the Bulgarian Fiscal Council in providing good practices on sustainability of the public finances of the other Member States. In his exhibition Mr. Vazov raised again the question of the huge volume of work required by the members of the Fiscal Council. According to him, changes to the current law should be considered in view of the organisation of work. It is not realistic against 200 employees and 2 million invested system for electronic processing of information when making the state budget, standing the Fiscal Council with a chairman, four members and three experts. In his concept Mr. Ivanov stressed that the Fiscal Council, which is established in Bulgaria, is influenced by the change in fiscal policy in the European Union and, above all, in the Eurozone. In this sense, there are two approaches in his work, either to act as a fiscal catalyst, waving the baton, or to provide a non-mattric, non-stable contribution to the consideration of each of the European fiscal rules. It was noted by Mr. Ivanov that from the point of view of the volume of work, it is probably good to make internal thematic specialization of all members of the Fiscal Council, that is, to make each member rapporteur for a particular element or group of fiscal rules. Mr. Ivanov said that his contribution to the activities of the Fiscal Council according to his qualification and experience could be within the area of detailed macroeconomic analysis on the implementation of fiscal rules, depending on where Bulgaria is located in the specific period of development. In her article Ms. Dora Andreeva took the following priorities: The mission of the Fiscal Council to assist the National Assembly in overseeing the management of public finances. The objectives of the Fiscal Council: control of fiscal discipline and compliance with numerical fiscal rules and restriction in the State Budget Act, for assistance in managing budgetary resources of commitments and risks, support for tax policies for better collection, as well as cost policies for efficient use, evaluation of fiscal policies in terms of the financial impact on future generations. Specific tasks and guidelines.. outlined in detail Ms. Andreeva the specific tasks and directed them, as she sees them and also supported the idea of preparing an internal organisation of work documents, as well as a Code of Rights and Obligations to form the framework of the members of the Council. Ms. Andreeva stressed that the role of the Council in fiscal policy is to strengthen financial discipline depending on economic situations, depending on specific circumstances, in order to be able to support more flexible policies, greater freedom of action, in order not to cause even more procyclicism, for example at times of economic crises. In his concept, Mr Tasim stressed that the most important thing in the functions of the Fiscal Board is the establishment of the methodology for the assessment criteria and the automatic corrective mechanisms that should be applied with a sharp deviation from the forecast reports. Mr. Tasim expressed the need to develop software that can analyze the data of the fissure that are currently in large volume and on different indicators. There was also the fear that the Fiscal Council should not engage in conformism with the government, but to work by upholding the laws and for the benefit of society. According to T. 6 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Ms. Menda Stoyanova reported that she received only opinions on the candidacy of Ms. Andreeva from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, from the Center for Economic Development and from the Association of Specialized Accounting Enterprises. All organisations express their support for its candidacy by highlighting not only its professional knowledge and experience, but also its innovative approach and creativity in solving seemingly unsolvable problems. In the course of her exhibition Mrs. Andreeva answered in detail the questions asked by the Association of Specialized Accounting. The candidates were not asked questions by the MPs. Only the people's representative Aliosman Imamov recommended to all candidates during the discussions in plenary to give their own opinion on two important issues, namely: programming budgeting and methods and ways to increase the efficiency of public spending. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that all candidates met the legal requirements for taking up the post of member of the Fiscal Council and Boris Grozdanov and Lyubomir Dazov as Chairman of the Fiscal Council. The expertise, academic, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates, as well as the qualifications they acquired, are positive prerequisites for the implementation of the Board's activities as an advisory body on fiscal governance. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed nominations of Boris Krumov Grozdanov, Georgi Yordanov Ganev, Grigory Tsvetanov Vazov, Dimitar Mihailov Ivanov, Dora Atanasova Andreeva, Lubomir Vasilev Datsov, Yunal Tasim as Chairman and members of the Board of Justice under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for which it applies to this report a draft decision for each candidate. The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to examine and vote on the proposed candidacy of Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova due to her rejection to the Committee on Budget and Finance in order to be heard in accordance with Section III of the Rules of Procedure, for which she does not apply to this report a draft decision on her.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I suggest that the drafts for a decision read them later when the time comes for the vote. Now we have to present the applicants in two minutes from the importers. We will act alphabetically first, Mr. Boris Krumov Grozdanov, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Mrs. Stoyanova, you've presented it to the Commission, maybe now you can authorize someone else or... [[Noise and lines.]] You have many roles today. You have up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u111	Thank you. I will not use my two minutes because the Commission report was very detailed about what Mr. Grozdanov's professional biography is. I think it is impressive and it has all the advantages of being not only a member of the Fiscal Council, but also a chairman of this Fiscal Council. The parliamentary group of the GERB party has proposed Mr. Grozdanov as Chairman, except for a member. He's a colleague of ours. A large part of the people in this Chamber know him as a MP from the Forty-first National Assembly, as well as from his work in the Budget and Finance Committee as chairman of the subcommittee to the Budget and Finance Committee. I believe that there is no person in this Chamber who will express a negative opinion about Mr. Grozdanov, his professional qualities and his human qualities. I will not dwell on its professional qualities, since I said that they were detailed in the Commission report. I would like to refer to his human qualities, a man extremely balanced, extremely open to ideas and foreign opinions, a man who can work with people with different views, including opposing views. I believe that these qualities are extremely important for the position for which we are proposing it, not only for a member of the Fiscal Council, because there should be work not only with the Committee on Budget and Finance, but also with the Ministry of Finance, with analytical bodies, with analysts, with NGOs working in this area. I believe that these human qualities will be extremely important for real implementation of the balancing, the important role of the Fiscal Council. We also offer it as chairman for precisely these reasons, as the chairman of such a collective of people experts, everyone with their qualifications and knowledge in the areas in which he worked, I think that he can bring this collective together and unite the opinions so that indeed the Fiscal Council can come up with a single opinion and be a true assistant to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u112	Thank you. You've even used over two minutes. Thank you. Next is a presentation by Georgi Yordanov Ganev, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Mr. Martin Dimitrov, please present Georgi Ganev's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Georgi Ganev is the right and strong candidate because he is an independent expert, has never been a member of political parties. He is a popular participant in the public debate, independent and very quality Bulgarian economist. He's a long-standing assistant and PhD student at the Nobel Prize in Economics Douglas North. Georgi Ganev is also known by name in the world economic circles. I want, once this Bulgarian Fiscal Council is adopted, the fiscal councils of the European Union to know the members of the Bulgarian fiscal council and to work together. Georgi Ganev has a number of publications, international publications with world-famous economists, including, for example: Bulgaria.......................................................... in emerging markets....................................................................................................................................................................................... But, colleagues, what's the most important thing? Why are we creating this Fiscal Council? We create it to have civilian control over the implementation of the budget. Therefore, for us in this Fiscal Council must be elected citizens with a strong and authoritative position. You were looking at Georgi Ganev's positions. They were never biased. He criticized everyone when they needed to be criticized and supported when there was room to be supported. So this Fiscal Council should not be one body in which to send representatives of parties to make any decisions that no one can hear or understand. This body should be corrective. Such are the fiscal councils throughout the European Union, so we offer to your attention a man who will be a strong corrective of every government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u114	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Since there is an opportunity and must be presented the next five candidates, then there should also be a debate, and it is time for a break before I give the break I will only read one message. Dear MPs, the National Assembly will mark the International Day for Elimination of Violence against Women. The information campaign will be opened at 11:30 in the Northern lobby. All MPs are invited to the event. I'm calling a recess, fellow Members, until 12:00. At 12:00, we proceed with the procedure. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u115	Dear colleagues, the break is over. We will proceed with the hearing. The next candidate in alphabetical order to be presented within 2 minutes is Mr. Gregory Vazov, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor to present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, an honourable minority present in this House! Mr. Vazov's application has already been presented on another occasion in this Chamber, to the Commission, as well as in Mrs. Stoyanova's report, so I do not intend to go into details. I just want to point out to you that this is the person who can be the reference of the Fiscal Council, so support with a clear conscience and with inner confidence our candidacy. Mr. Vazov has the three main qualities necessary for the holding of a high responsible state post, namely, in the first place, he is a proven professional. He is president, rector and owner of the Higher School of Insurance and Finance, which just recently received an assessment of 9 on the decimal system, which is enough recognition for the quality of this institution. Mr. Vazov has a rich professional biography. In his long professional journey, there are neither black nor gray nor white spots, for which we congratulate him. The second parameter on which I named his candidacy worthy of the highest state position is his public commitment. Mr. Vazov is a man of large-scale public activity, a person engaged in the problems of both financial institutions and generally of the development of Bulgaria, and thirdly, this is the group of qualities that define him as a person of high moral and human dignity, a person consistent, persistent, targeted. In other words, with these three groups of qualities, I strongly recommend that you support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u117	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Next is the presentation of the candidacy of Mr. Dimitar Ivanov, proposed by the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We offer to your attention a candidacy that meets all formal and informal requirements for a member of the newly formed Fiscal Council under the European Union directive. There is no need for a very detailed presentation. The colleague Dimitar Ivanov has a higher economic education, PhD in Economics from the University of National and World Economy. He spent most of his academic career in Bulgaria for 16 years at the extremely authoritative Economic Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. He has also been a consultant to the UNIDO branch of the United Nations in Vienna. As such, he was a senior advisor there and gave macroeconomic assistance, advice to the governments of Azerbaijan and other developing countries. In addition, he was a lecturer at two leading universities in Britain, one in Warwick and the other in Sheffield. The colleague Ivanov was an adviser to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and worked actively to implement the market reforms in Bulgaria in the first years of the transition as an expert at the Economic Commission of the National Assembly. There's a lot of publications. Once again, the colleague has a PhD thesis from the leading UNWE and a long academic career at the Economic Institute of BAS. It is well known in the international economic community with reports, publications, participation in discussions at international level. He is a proven expert in macroeconomic policy and we are sure that he will be useful in the work of the Fiscal Council. After all, in this Fiscal Council, honourable Members, there must be representatives of various economic schools, with different views and we believe that the colleague meets these requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u119	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Ms. Dora Andreeva's candidacy will probably be presented by Mr. Rosen Petrov, as it was proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. You have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u120	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Karakachanov, honourable colleagues! Firstly, I would like to point out that I attended this meeting of the Financial Committee and was very impressed by the fact that all the proposed applications are strong.... of people with qualities, of people with clean biographies. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, we also present to your attention such a person - Ms. Dora Andreeva. I know her in connection with her charity work, which she developed with the Karin Home Foundation I say this circumstance because I think that a financier other than doing bills should have a soul. Otherwise, Mrs. Andreeva's entire biography speaks for itself about what she is. She is an authoritative financier expert with many years of experience in the field of public finances. He began his career at the time of the People's Council of the District of Plovdiv, in planning, implementation and reporting of the state budget. I would have noted its role in the period 1997 - 2000 as Deputy Minister of Finance in a difficult period when it has one of the leading roles to increase and stabilise revenue in the budget and to restore the financial stability of the country. I think that a person with such characteristics in a situation as the current one, when again there are some financial risks in front of us, there is a place in the Fiscal Council - a completely new institution, which I hope will work successfully in the Bulgarian conditions. I think it's a man of great knowledge, mostly with practical experience. Based on what I have said, I recommend that you support the candidacy of Mrs. Andreeva, who has the necessary education, professional experience, independent personal opinion, is not a party candidate, with high reputation and authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. The next candidate is Mr. Lyubomir Datsov. It was proposed by MP Dimitar Tanev of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Mr. Tanev, to present the candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention Mr. Lyubomir Datsov's candidacy as chairman or member of the Fiscal Council. This is a pleasant duty for me because we have worked together on one of the most important reforms in the field of education that has been implemented in recent years. In his long years of work at the Ministry of Finance, he'll probably be remembered for at least two things. He has initiated the first three-year budget framework and has launched and laid the foundations of the programme budgeting in Bulgaria. Mr. Datsov started working at the Ministry of Finance in 1992, immediately after his graduation at the UNWE. He held expert positions until 1996 and was responsible for the development of the macroeconomic forecast and the state budget. This is the period when he has a number of specializations in the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. From 1997 to 2001 he headed the Budget Policy Department, which is responsible for the development and consolidation of the state budget. In 1998 he initiated the establishment of the first medium-term budgetary forecast. From 2001 until the beginning of 2003, Mr. Datsov was adviser to the finance minister, supporting budget reforms and coordinating the preparations for the introduction of EU funds in Bulgaria and from 2003 to 2009 is Deputy Minister of Finance, responsible for the budget, structural policies and coordination of EU funds. This is the period in which he initiated and coordinated the work of budget reform, budget planning and programming. It includes the introduction of programme budgeting, sectoral analyses and reforms. After 2009, Mr. Datsov is a bank financial consultant, an economic analyst with numerous publications. From 2011 to October 2015 he was a municipal councillor at the Sofia Municipal Council, member of the Permanent Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Education, Culture and Science. I call on him to receive your support. Mr. Datsov is an indisputable financial expert, a man of very high moral qualities who deserves trust and deserves to be a member of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. The latest Alphabetical application belongs to Mr. Yunal Tasim, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor to present the candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Yunal Tasim is well known to the National Assembly. He was a colleague of ours. He was elected to the 39th, 40th and 41th National Assembly. Mr. Yunal Tasim has two higher educations in Sofia and the Industrial Academy of Svishtov in Svishtov. He's an economics major. Mr. Yunal Tasim has been elected Vice-President of the Economic Commission, Chair of the Sub-Committee on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Between 2013 and 2014 he was elected Deputy Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism. He is currently working at the Commercial Bank. During all these years, Mr. Tasim has prepared, imported and defended dozens of laws relating to the country's economic and fiscal policies. He has many years of experience in the field of economic analysis and fiscal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. That concludes this point in the procedure. Honourable Members, we are going to debate on the proposed applications. I remind you that this will be done under the rules of the First Reading Bill, that is, every parliamentary group has a certain time. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, we are faced with a selection procedure of the Council, which must to a very high extent create conditions for independent monitoring and analysis of the budgetary framework with a view to maintaining sustainable public finances. In any case, the proposed candidates must meet high professional conditions. I think they have such professional conditions. I'd like to point out the qualities of prof. Dimitar Ivanov, who were presented by Prof. Dimitar Ivanov. Gechev. As a person who, over the years, stood up for an independent and clear position, including when he worked with the President of the Republic when he was involved in the work of the National Assembly. Today, the National Assembly is facing a serious risk that the composition of the Fiscal Council will be taken by number of votes and the opposition will be ignored. If that happens, the Council shall not, in any case, respond to art. 5 to carry out its activities on the basis of the principles of independence and publicity, objectivity, transparency and equality of its members. Then the opposition will have nothing left but all issues related to fiscal stability under the regulation to be taken directly to Brussels. I believe that all political forces should take a clear view of the fact that the votes can easily be collected, but this, with the establishment of the Council, will create very serious doubts about its addiction, in its pro-government, and at a time when our and foreign observers are seriously putting the issue of the financial stability of the country and the problems related to the excessive deficit. This discussion has been going on in society for some time now. I suppose that all MPs, apart from the individual agreements between the groups, apart from the arithmetical calculation of what composition of the Council will be better and more comfortable with the government, should give a clear view that today's vote could seriously hit the authority of this body, which has extremely important functions under the regulation, functions related to control of compliance with the Public Finance Act. It is obvious that the European Regulation creates additional control mechanisms because governments in the European Union often allow themselves to get out of macroeconomic forecasts, to abuse data within individual reporting periods, and if there is no Fiscal Council that is truly independent but pro-government, it will be another institution that we create for the convenience of the government and will not fulfil its function, as provided for by a regulation. This is precisely why I think it is important to have an opposition representation in this Council, which will create conditions for the requirements of the Council to be independent, to have objectivity and transparency, to have publicity in its activities. Otherwise, we in the opposition will find other ways to put these issues, which the Council, for its comfort and for its good relations with the government, has decided to keep quiet. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u127	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Replies to that statement? For the next speech, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. You have five minutes, but it's for all MPs who don't belong to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u129	Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u130	I made a proposal last time, it was rejected, I'm doing it again, because I think it's extremely important to know which of the candidates proposed for the Board. However, let us not forget that this is an independent body that will monitor the budgetary policy of the poorest country in the European Union, prepare analyses and advice, and create prerequisites for increasing budgetary transparency and publicity. Then we will talk about budgetary transparency and publicity, let us also see the transparency of these candidates, all the more so that, on the basis of a proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev, they were verified by the Commission on the files. I suggest that each of the candidates declare here, from this tribune, that he was not a member of a Masonic box, that he was not a member of a force group. [[Laughter in PF.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm really asking you to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u131	Quiet, please! Just to let you know that I will accept this proposal for information, as it is not part of the procedure and the rules for the election of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u132	Yes, but they could themselves, if they wanted to, make this declaration and that they were not in any way, in no way involved and contributed to the creation of property pyramids. Furthermore, I believe that the requirement that the last five years have not been in the management of the board of directors of bankrupt banks is too minimal. It should be at least 15 years. We all know what happened 15 years ago. So these five years, although you will say that the procedure has already been exhausted and can hardly be put to the vote the change of this text is essentially the amnesty of the big bank robbery during 1997. This is my concrete proposal and I believe that they themselves can wish, anyway they will come out on the stand if they wish, why not each one of them to make this declaration, and first of all, of course, I place the requirement that the candidate concerned has not been and is not a member at the time of a Masonic box. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u133	- What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov wishes to take the floor. [[Voices: "Eeeeee!" "Replications between MP Yanaki Stoilov and MPs from DPS."]] Please don't enter into a debate with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u134	Mr. Chairman... [[Replications between the MPs Velizar Enchev and Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u135	I'm sorry. Mr. Enchev, please take your place! Mr. Enchev, please respect the discipline in this room! Excuse me, Mr. Stoilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Board! It is very strange that Members of the National Assembly are aroused by some kind of lineage, and when they have to come out and express a position from the stands, there is usually a shortage in argumentation of positions. I therefore also begin by noting the fact that the groups offering candidates do not consider it necessary to make further arguments about their substance and the tasks they expect to perform in the Fiscal Council. Mr. Dimitar Ivanov's application, which we propose, and which we also insist on being supported, meets the highest professional standards for taking up this position. Without going into any parallels, and without underestimating any of the other candidates, I can say that few of these candidates, who are today of our attention, meet the same high requirements that we make to the formation of this body. In addition, it is necessary for the Fiscal Council to include members who can ensure its independence in order to respond to those who started in the European Union after 2011 fiscal consolidation reforms. The Fiscal Council is an independent, collegial, pluralistic body which must be composed of publicly proven experts in the field of economic, including macroeconomic analysis and public finances. The European Union Directive and the Law that we have adopted provide for it to carry out a motivated assessment, to carry out constant control and expertise on the sustainability of the government's fiscal policy. He must be able to make precise judgments and, to some extent, even control the implementation of this fiscal policy. Of course, the Fiscal Council should not be a pro-government or opposition body. But this suggests that the main dominant economic views should be reflected in it, because I am afraid that you can prefer the comfort of its election to include only economists who profess liberal and neoliberal views. They are far from universal in the European Union, not to mention in modern economic and particular fiscal doctrine. This body must be responsible for fiscal policy reforms after the economic crisis, which Bulgaria has not yet found a way out of. Note that it must draw up at least several reports per year, which correspond not only with the main Bulgarian institutions, but also with the European fiscal council. This body must meet the requirement of the 2011 Revised Stability and Growth Pact of the European Union, the 2011 signed by 25 European Union Member States, the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Control in the Economic and Monetary Union implementing the debt brake and it must carry out fiscal and macroeconomic surveillance. The budgetary process must be linked to the medium-term objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact, to provide independent fiscal institutions for the control and implementation of fiscal rules. In this regard, I think that the candidacy we are proposing is one of the few in the so proposed, which can provide a greater breadth in economic views, in economic argumentation, in the use of this body for in-depth discussions and presentation of accurate assessments of financial trends. Do not be afraid of them, for this is one of the guarantees of achieving so-called financial stability. Or are you perhaps afraid that this body will report that the budget expenditure in the Eurozone is 49% of the gross domestic product and the revenue of 46.6? For the 28 Member States of the European Union, these numbers are a little over 48 and a little over 45% respectively. And Bulgaria is even below the weight of 40% collected revenue and redistribution of expenditure through the state budget. Also, despite the announced financial stability over the last year, we should note that this year Bulgaria ends in an almost critical financial condition, despite the never great government debt that has been consumed for three years. Because if in previous years Bulgaria has never ended later than 1 month before the calendar end of the year with its revenues, this year Bulgaria is financed on credit in the last 69 days of the budget year, and at the highest level of government debt, with the so advertised increased revenues that are provided in the state budget. On these issues, don't you think the Fiscal Council should be concerned and give a really accurate assessment and, if it is able, offer solutions? Because this body is both consultative, but it is a body that should provide, if possible, independent financial expertise. That is why, finally, in my speech, again, if you apply, above all, professional criteria, if you believe that this body is not an immediate projection of the government and the parliamentary majority, and so, as the European rules require, written and unwritten, that in this body, the main economic views and trends, including those who are at some point opposition, be able to express also opinions that are longer than the government's term of office. So it will be a very important signal for us to vote on the applications. If you allow a body of the pro-government majority to be formed, it means that you are creating a body that is not to play the role of the Fiscal Council, but to continue a one-sided policy and mainly to create comfort for the Minister of Finance and the Government. For this reason, this body would prove pointless, even though it is in the implementation of European directives and of laws already adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u137	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are going to vote on the proposed nominations. I will give the floor to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to read the decision for each candidate. You know that we have seven nominations, so we have to elect five members of the Fiscal Council, that is, the five who have collected the most votes for the Board and passed the quorum of today's meeting, will be elected members of the Fiscal Council, and then I will put to the vote the election for President of the Fiscal Council. You know that we have two applications, respectively they belong to Mr. Boris Grozdanov and Mr. Lyubomir Datsov. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor on the first decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u138	Project! DECISION to elect a member of the Fiscal Council. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Boris Krumov Grozdanov as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u139	I propose that we vote each decision separately and collect the votes. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the proposed decision for Mr. Boris Grozdanov to be elected a member of the Fiscal Council. Please vote! Vote 169 MPs: 159, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] In this case, rather, the votes on the vote on the vote are clear. Please make a decision for the second candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u140	Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Fiscal Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the fiscal council and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Yordanov Ganev as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u141	Please, honourable Members, we are voting on the decision to elect Mr. Georgi Yordanov Ganev as a member of the Fiscal Council. They voted 171 MPs: 25, against 57, abstention 89. Next decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u142	Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Fiscal Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the fiscal council and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Gregory Tsvetanov Vazov as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u143	Please, honourable Members, we are voting on Mr. Gregory Tsvetanov Vazov's candidacy. Vote 151 MPs: 132, against 5, abstention 14. [[General applause from GERB.]] Next decision, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u144	Project! DECISION on the election of a Board member The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Mihaylov Ivanov as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u145	Please, honourable Members, we are voting on Mr. Dimitar Mihailov Ivanov's candidacy. They voted 139 MPs: 38, against 21, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. Revoting you wish, Mr. Stoilov, you have seen somewhere impossible to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u146	Mr. Chairman, don't give me the motive. I want a re-voting so that the MPs can essentially change their choices because I have presented enough professional arguments. Otherwise, it means that you are forming a Fiscal Council from GERB, DPS and the Patriot Front and, of course, on duty reformers, so this is the majority that you constantly reproduce in parliament. That's the reason I'm asking for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are voting again for Mr. Dimitar Mihailov Ivanov to be a member of the Fiscal Council. They voted 133 MPs: 39, against 48, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Next decision, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u148	Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a Board member The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Dora Atanasova Andreeva as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u149	Please, colleagues, we are voting on Ms. Dora Atanasova Andreeva's candidacy. Vote 117 MPs: 101, against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. We'll continue with the next application.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u150	Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a Board member The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Lyubomir Vassilev Datsov as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u151	Please, colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Lyubomir Vassilev Dazov's candidacy. They voted 143 MPs: 141, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u152	Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a Board member The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Yunal Tasim Tasim as a member of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u153	Please, colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Yunal Tasim Tasim's candidacy for a member of the Board of Fiscals. Vote 138 MPs: 113 against 7, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. It is clear from the results that we have five nominations, for which the proposals for decisions have been adopted, which receive votes, respectively, over half of the MPs voted. This is Mr. Boris Grozdanov, Mr. Gregory Vazov, Mrs. Dora Andreeva, Mr. Lyubomir Datsov and Mr. Yunal Tasim. These are the five candidates who become members of the Fiscal Council. It remains, honourable Members, to vote on the President of the Council. We have two applications. Please read the applications, I will put them to the vote consecutively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u154	Thank you. Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of the Chairman of the Fiscal Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Boris Krumov Grozdanov as Chairman of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years. The second draft decision is: Project! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of the Chairman of the Fiscal Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms HAS DECIDED He elected Lyubomir Vassilev Dazov as Chairman of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, we are voting on the election of the Chairman of the Fiscal Council. First we vote on Mr. Boris Krumov Grozdanov's candidacy. Vote 127 MPs: 119, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the second candidacy for the Chairman of the Fiscal Council with a mandate of 6 years "Mr. Lyubomir Vassilev Datsov." They voted 111 MPs: 26, Against 9, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. According to the rules and the current vote for Chairman of the Fiscal Council for a term of 6 years Mr. Boris Krumov Grozdanov was elected. [[Applause from GERB.]] Congratulations to the chosen councilmen! Please, honourable members of the Fiscal Council, come to the stand and take an oath. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u156	I vow as a member of the Fiscal Council to follow and be guided by the Constitution, the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and the interests of the state and to be independent in my actions. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u157	Congratulations! [[The National Assembly's leadership greets the elected President and members of the Fiscal Council.]] Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: 5th, 3rd and 4th points are first for Thursday and 1st for Friday: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT A PROGRAM FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ARMED FORCES OF BULGARIA 2020 AND FOR THE DETERMINATION OF THE PERSONALITY OF THE ARMED FORCE. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. Before I give the floor to the rapporteurs of the relevant committees, just to remind you that according to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly according to art. 16, p. 6 determine the number of armed forces and adopt programmes for their development on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, etc. 7 The state budget funds needed to secure the country's defence, as well as to participate in operations and missions outside the country's territory. Mr. Secretary, come in. First, we have a report from the Defence Committee. General Miho Mihov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and determining the number of armed forces, No 502-03-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. At open regular meetings held on 9 October and 6 November 2015, the Defence Commission discussed the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and on the determination of the number of armed forces, No 502-03-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. 11 MPs participated in the meeting on 9 October 2015 and on 6 November 2015. 14 Members of the National Assembly. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev, Deputy Ministers Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev and Orhan Ismailov, Deputy Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Konstantin Popov, Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova and Minister Atanas Zaprianov's adviser were present. On behalf of the importers, the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 was presented to the members of the Commission by the Minister of Defence. People's representatives Miho Mihov, Vladimir Toshev, Valentin Radev, Korman Ismaylov, Angel Naydenov, Yanko Yankov, Milen Mihov and those present by the Ministry of Defence took part in the discussion of the program. In their speeches, the MPs agreed that the Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces 2020 was well structured and balanced and reflected the government's intentions to continue and develop the process of strategic rethinking the defence policy of the Republic of Bulgaria and building the necessary defence capabilities of the armed forces by 2020 and after that period. The construction of the country's defence capabilities will be done by engaging the entire complex of the country's political, economic, technological, informational, military and civil resources. The level of political ambition in defence is also preserved. On each mission it is based on specific national security tasks of the country, allied responsibilities and the definition of defence spending in the medium term according to the state budget. The relative share of the budget for defence towards gross domestic product remains at a level not lower than that achieved by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, and with the increase by 2024 it should ensure the implementation of the decisions of the NATO Summit in Wales 2014. Particularly engaging in modernisation and military capabilities is the implementation of 11 (11) measurers, taking into account the levels of defence investments, the contribution to the development of capabilities and the actual contribution to collective security and NATO. The programme focuses on the need to maintain the number of armed forces within 37............................................................................................. people, which, according to the importers and members of the Defence Commission, is the critical level allowing for failure to fulfil the main tasks. The continuity between the White Paper and Programme 2020 is highlighted. This continuity is not only in the repetition of the tasks of the main components of the armed forces, in the preservation and development of structures, but also in the adopted core investment projects for the individual components of the armed forces, which should prejudge the implementation of missions and tasks. The members of the Defence Committee discussed in depth the capabilities and structures of all components of the armed forces, as well as the priorities of each of them for developing capabilities on the three missions of the armed forces: It has been noted that there has been some understatement of the construction and development of the defence capabilities of the Land Forces, which are the main type of armed forces of the country, which should be taken into account when developing the respective plans for the development of the armed forces and the investment plan. It is positive in the Programme that the main source of funding is the state budget and not the so-called use funds, which speaks of the government's commitment to its implementation. In their speeches, the MPs drew attention to the fact that the programme does not refer to a clear government approach to increase the defence capabilities of the armed forces by re-arming or by modernisation, which also requires the relevant economic and financial justification. Returning to the agreed implementation Goals for abilities that are delayed by 2028 is positive, but there is no constructiveness, consistency, timing and deadlines for the implementation of each of them. There is no necessary position of the government to take over the household of the Multinational Brigade for Southeast Europe during 2017, which is within the time range of the programme. It is worrying that over the years the defence budget has been linked to the level of 2014, which does not imply a turning in the development of the defence capabilities of the armed forces. The Commission considers it to be positive and responsible in the management of defence resources, including. the financial, in the Ministry of Defence, in the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and in the Bulgarian Army to maintain and build defence capabilities, to use the Integrated Resource Management System on a program principle. During the implementation of the programme, the MPs recommend that changes to the legislation in force be made to create conditions for reinvestment in defence, modernization of the defence capabilities of the armed forces and implementation of international arrangements, which will be reflected in the development plan of the armed forces and in the investment plan. After the discussion, there was a vote in which 14 MPs participated. By 11 votes for the defence committee adopted the following: DECISION: He proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 1, t. 6 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria to accept the decision submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015 on the adoption of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and on the determination of the number of armed forces No 502-03-19 I've reported it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u159	Thank you, Mr. General. Please, Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova to present the report to the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u160	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and determining the number of armed forces, No 502-03-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 05 October 2015. At a regular meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft decision submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reasons of the importer were presented by Mr. Orhan Ismailov, Deputy Minister of Defence and Mr. Atanas Zaprianov, Advisor to the Minister of Defence, as follows: The defence capabilities development programme of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 has been developed in accordance with art. 22, para. 2, p. 5 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. It aims to continue and develop the process of strategic rethinking defence policy and building defence capabilities initiated in the White Paper. The programme sets out the development parameters and the main guidelines for building the defence capabilities of the armed forces by 2020 by engaging the country's political, economic, technological, information, military and civil resources. The document takes into account the changes that have occurred in the geostrategic security environment in the immediate vicinity of our territory, generating instability, risks and threats, defining the areas of our armed forces' capabilities that need to be developed as a priority in order to be able to respond adequately to the challenges facing our security. The nature of these challenges, risks and threats imposes the need to preserve the designated role, missions and tasks of the armed forces. In order to carry out the missions and tasks assigned, the armed forces will maintain a total number of not less than 37 000 and not more than 40 000 people. In the course of the implementation of the annual laws on the state budget, additional costs may be approved under the terms and conditions of the Public Finance Act. Under the conditions of extremely insufficient financial assurance for the first three years of implementation of the programme will be provided with defence resources, including. financial, the Return Forces (Military formations for immediate action, declared forces and capabilities under the NATO Capacity Goals 2013 and declared EU CSDP forces), as well as military formations for participation in operations in or outside the country's territory. The expenditure on staff and on-going maintenance and capital expenditure for 2015 amounts to a ratio of 73:21:6. Between 2020 and 2024, a ratio of these costs must be achieved 60:20:20. This ratio represents the average standards for EU countries and the achievement of 20 per cent capital expenditure is in line with the adopted by the Heads of State or Government of the NATO member states, the Declaration of the Wales Summit in 2014. In the management of defence resources, including the financial, in the Ministry of Defence, in the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and in the Bulgarian Army to maintain and build defence capabilities will be used the Integrated Resource Management System on a program principle. The heads of structures will increasingly use the concepts of risk management and project management to modernise the armed forces in implementing policies and defence programmes. In order to implement the programme, changes must be made to the legislation in force to create conditions for reinvesting in defence, modernizing the defence capabilities of the armed forces and implementing international agreements. The programme will serve as a basis for the development of an Armed Forces Development Plan 2020. After hearing the reasons for the draft decision, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 12 votes for the decision, there are not 3 votes against the draft decision, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft proposed by the Council of Ministers for a decision to adopt a Program for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and to determine the number of armed forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Honourable Members, I am opening the debates on the proposed draft decision. Here you go. Mr. Kadyev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I had no intention of speaking, but from the reports that we have heard, I realized that something that was requested from us by the Smolyan region is not happening has not entered this programme. What's this about? It's about transforming the Smolyan Alpine Battalion into a regiment. Following the request of our regional governor Mr. Savov and from the entire public in Smolyan, we asked for this thing to happen and to enter this programme. I see she didn't go inside, so I'll take the floor. Why did we ask for this battalion to become a regiment? Because first of all, I know that the Minister will support me, the first thing this battalion does besides its military orders is respond to all disasters and accidents. We were together when the dikes had to rise so the Black River wouldn't flood us. We were together when the fires started. The last fire that happened, thanks to this battalion, along with the firefighters, was able to prevent a disaster that could set fire to the district of Rykovo, could have affected the substation, and hence we would not actually have electricity in half the region. That is why my request is from now on, making sure that the framework of this overall programme enters this proposal for conversion from battalion to regiment. Besides, there's another wish that's mine and Mr. Mihov's. I don't know if this can happen, but why the Alpine battalion? Why isn't it a Rhodope regiment? Thank you. I hope that my proposal will come in and you will take it into consideration so that we can really accomplish a good deed. Besides, you know what the international situation is right now, and we are on the border with Greece. Almost everyone who passes through Greece now. This is something that is very important and that we need to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u163	Are you talking about the refugees? Okay. Thank you. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I went out on the stand with one task to ask all colleagues: and those who support the government and all colleagues who have criticism of it, to be unanimous in the current vote, because this is a basic document which is currently becoming extremely relevant. Even I would say that for procedural reasons, we were a little late with his acceptance. In the two reports of the committees it was mentioned several times that it is a continuation and successor of the things concerning national security and development in the White Paper several years ago and is in line with the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and its Constitution. These are the formal sides. The truth is that now, looking at this document, at the present time, after the events in the centre of Europe, after the extremely acute relations between the extremely powerful countries like Russia and Turkey yesterday, after the urgent documents adopted by NATO and the European Union, the value of this Programme, which has been working long, among other things, discussed enough in society by the interested and competent organizations....... government and non-governmental, and in the institutions of the National Assembly, including in our Commission, it has proved to be a good Programme, which at the present moment, although it has been working several weeks and months ago, is up-to-date, meaning it has the prospect for the next few years to give the way for development and on the regulatory basis concerning the defence capabilities of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the specific in every respect. We have now seen colleague Kadiev, who even pleads for such details as the conversion of the battalion to Smolyan into a regiment. We've even had talks with the Ministry's management and about a larger structure, so actuality is inevitable and I'm asking for your support. This will also be a sign to the public that Parliament in this aspect does not vote partyly, but votes stately.. what we have always done, at least since I have already had enough time in this Parliament, which we have always done in terms of national security issues. The party divide in this case will give a very bad signal in an extremely polarized one at our borders, I would not like to say on our territory, too, a situation, because we have already last year, when we talked about a prefrontal state, talked about terms that are generally taken by military terminology, then extremely strong were the voices how we allow ourselves this and so on. Suddenly it turned out to be a reality and a situation in which we live. Secondly, the leadership of the Ministry and of the Council of Ministers with this Programme we untie the hands finally in the coming years to start a real growth of the funds that are allocated to national security and in particular to the development of the armed forces, because for a little bit of you the figures 60:20:20 speak something. But this is where I want to explain it. This means that this has already started a trend, albeit on a smaller scale, but from a year to a year and pò per year it is ensured that wages will not be the only priority of the Ministry of Defence. This is the first time we have allocated a large amount as a percentage and as an absolute value that concerns the re-arming of the armed forces. For the first time! I hope we can talk about aviation tomorrow, but in the armed forces development programme itself, I am not very pleased, but this is possible. This program is a balance of possibilities. Colleagues, my argument, we have always spoken when we talk about armed forces, to give what we have the opportunity. This is the first time we've gone in another direction to give the armed forces what they need. It's not enough, but in spite of everything we're getting out of the framework, we have so much we're giving away and we're going to another policy to give what we have to give. I hope that in a few minutes, when we vote, I will be properly understood and I ask you to leave partisanism and politics for other topics. This topic is extremely painful. Including in the media will be a good sign that the National Assembly supports the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u165	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will proceed from where the speaker ends. For a long time there was a question: why do we need an army? Why do we need defense capabilities if we're members of the world's most powerful military union? Why do we need defence security when we are in the European Union and war is anachronism? Yesterday, the events of that day showed how shortsighted these questions are and such an approach. The programme, which today the Patriotic Front will actually support, must put an end to such naive and short-sighted thinking. We will support this Programme because it is an opportunity to start working responsibly towards the country's defence capabilities, the problems of national security and the armed forces. We are extremely pleased that the Programme states that the aim is also to protect the national unity of the country, but despite this support we cannot share a few issues that are of the attention of the government, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence. In view of the current challenges to national security, the envisaged reform of the command and management of the Brigade, Special Forces and its direct placing under the leadership of the Joint Command of Forces, is justified, but we ask the question: is it reasonable for these forces to be brought to the level of the regiment? In support of colleagues from the ABB, we believe that the transformation of Battalion 101 "Alpine Battalion" in Samokov, in a regiment, is justified. In this spirit of reasoning, we believe that special operations forces should be maintained in the size of a brigade. Secondly, we would like to raise very serious questions about the condition of the voluntary reserve and the reserve forces or the reserve in the Bulgarian Armed Forces. Although the Action Plan and the White Paper foresee a number of about 3,000 people on the reserve, we can unfortunately count a far, far lower number today. The issue of seeking new legislative frameworks, new approaches to solving the reserve problem should be a priority of the management of the National Assembly. I remind you that for many years, IMRO has been proposing different ideas for the creation of a national guard, for the people's militia, for security elements that exist even in the largest countries with the largest military resources such as the United States and our other NATO partners. It is a very important issue of stock or of prepared men and women who can be called under flags in the event of a military conflict. Today, certain lists are being kept that are difficult to say if they are adequate to the demographic state of the country. Many of the people who have passed military training have long lived outside the borders of the country. This is why it is a serious question of the introduction of universal military training, even if we call it the barracks, into new, modern, according to the financial capabilities of our country. It is enough to look at the fragile experience of the Ministry of Defence for the preparation of students during the summer months in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army for last year and this year. In just two years, the number of wishing Bulgarian youths not to go somewhere on a brigade, not to rest at sea, but to serve in the Bulgarian army is approximately 1000 people over 900 people. On the other hand, this year, for financial reasons, the number of admissions to just over 300 were reduced. Three to one. That is, we have three young people willing to train for Bulgarian soldiers and we accept only one. That is why I think there is also a public attitude among our youth, however much we do not believe in it, to serve the country, to serve the army. And thirdly, I would like to comment on the policy envisaged in the programme for the acquisition of basic weapons systems. It is indicated that this should follow in line with our strategic cooperation with the United States. Without questioning this principled or good approach, we are alarming that we should not reproduce an old mistake or, more precisely, imposed on us from the time of the cold war, a situation in which the Bulgarian Armed Forces should be militaryly bound monopolistically with a single state. The diversification of military supplies, weapons and equipment must be a guiding principle for ensuring military and technical, and hence the political and diplomatic independence of our Armed Forces. If we fail to provide 100% of our weapons and equipment with our own military-industrial complex, which is impossible even for the largest industrial and military forces, we must follow a reasonable policy to rearm the Bulgarian army, avoiding a unilateral military technical monopoly. The results of our post-World War II military technical obedience to the Soviet Union are still being seen today. Tomorrow we'll talk about MiG 29. That's just part of the problem. Over 95 of our armed forces in the army have been armed since the Warsaw Treaty or, more precisely, the Soviet Union produced, from which for 25 years we have been unable to get out. With these remarks, we once again state our support for the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u167	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u168	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The document we are looking at, as my colleague Toshev said, is a nationally responsible document which should be supported by all parliamentary parties because it is not politically colored. This is not just a document of the government or behind which one or other political party of the majority stands, but should be a document which should be mainly supported by the nationally responsible representatives of parliament. On its basis will be made the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces, which is to be adopted by the end of the year and on the basis of which there will be specific estimates and tasks for the formations, which must enter into force by the end of the year, as it takes time to implement it. The program as a document has a number of qualities. This is a well-structured document covering all elements of the Armed Forces and elements in the field of defence. Accurately reflects the current international security environment, as well as the decision at the NATO summit in Wales. Clear objectives based on in-depth analysis by military and civilian expertise are described both in the security environment and in the country's financial and technical capabilities at the time. The defined level of political ambition that the state is capable of fulfilling within the three missions shall be maintained. Moreover, it should be noted that in addition to offering our attention, this document has rejected the 2020 strategy adopted by the caretaker government. We already have a realistic and financially secure document that provides a real framework in the development of the Armed Forces and on the basis of which concrete steps can be drawn up, to have clarity about what is necessary for the development of the Armed Forces, what formations there will be and subsequently how they will be provided, provided and upgraded. The development of the army is not just a pour for modernization. There must be a clear objective and a clear analysis of how these funds should be spent in the best possible way in order to contribute to developing the capabilities of the Armed Forces, so that we can avoid the bad examples that we have had in the recent past and with which the people we monitor the sector are familiar. Here I would like to deal with colleague Mihov, who spoke before me about the need to develop special operations forces. Releasing them into the joint command of NATO forces is a good step forward in order to achieve greater flexibility in their use and even more in the command structure. If we look at the way modern warfare has been conducted in recent years, we will notice that special operations forces are becoming increasingly important in conducting military action. In the end, the 68th Brigade has the greatest experience with control, anti-terrorist measures and security of sites, an experience gained on our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. After all, most NATO member states said they would develop more and more, even Britain after the attacks in Paris announced that it would double the size of its special operations forces, as this is one of the main elements that would enable us to respond to current threats. In this regard, it is our recommendation to pay more attention to the special operations forces, whether the brigade will be maintained or another more appropriate option will be devised, but to analyse how the forces will develop better so that they can be as effective as possible. I would also like to support the subject of the voluntary reserve that has been raised. Although there is no way to return the barracks from the old days, and I would not support such a policy, ultimately the voluntary training of people who want to enter military training and acquire military experience should be used as much as possible. And in view of the increased budget next year in the budget 2016 project, as in the three-year framework, we should also pay more attention to the military training of the voluntary reserve, as this is a staff bank to support the already incompleteness that exists in the armed forces, so let us also pay attention to this topic. It should be noted that the most important part of this programme is that, in addition to the 2016 draft budget, the government's commitment to the sector will be clearly declared by the three-year fiscal framework, that the capabilities of the armed forces will be developed, not only as modernisation, but also as personnel. The Programme also achieves predictability in the sector so that in the coming years it is clear what happens in formation and defence people have their security and stability of the service so that they can still carry out their tasks. I would like to thank the team that prepared it that it nevertheless represents a realistic planning of the capabilities of the armed forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u169	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. People's representative Korman Ismailov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u170	Thank you. Dear Mr President, of course, and my speech will be in the order and spirit of the thoughts and positions which have been stated before me by my fellow Members in support and giving a positive assessment of what is presented to us today to support our votes. We believe that with the adoption of this Programme from the point of view of the country, Bulgaria will be able to maintain adequate defence capabilities so that it can meet the current challenges of its national security and contribute effectively to improving its defence capabilities and, in general, as a member of NATO, to fulfill its commitments. There are not few criticisms, there are doubts regarding the preparation of our army, regarding its equipment whether it consumes more security than it contributes to NATO security, and it is in a region that is getting hotter and hotter. Of course, this Programme will be the basis for the development of the plan, which will now be deployed in time and funding for the implementation of this programme. It is extremely important to us that, also through the current budget that we are about to adopt, we are turning over a very negative trend of defense funds accumulated over the years. This reflects very critically over time on the preparation, motivation of the Bulgarian warriors, in general and on the prestige of Bulgaria as a whole and as a partner in the region. We believe that with what the Ministry has achieved, this step to increase funds to 1.5% of gross domestic product, with a tendency to increase to 2%, as are the recommendations and expectations of our partners, things will improve. We will give our support and, of course, we expect one from the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Admiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing a really important, serious document. I will try to convince you why it is important and why we need to support it. You know that until now the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army have been working on the White Paper of Defence and the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces until 2014. 2015 passed, the Ministry of Defence left without a strategic document to give him the reason and opportunity to develop a plan for the development of the armed forces. The programme is a strategic document that gives the framework such was the White Paper, which gives the guidelines for development, and the essence of implementation is the development plans. It is important to have it, this Programme, to vote on it as soon as possible, so that the Ministry of Defence can in a timely manner develop its plan for the development of the armed forces and fill any location, unit, personnel, arms and everything that needs to be arranged. You know that such programs had a Plan 2010, Plan 2014 and very few of the things that are related to the acquisition of new weapons, equipment and modernization happened. It is commendable and I am personally pleased that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria has found resources to be allocated and in Budget 2016 we see a serious increase. They are very well embedded in the program of political ambitions. You know that on the basis of political ambitions what we want and what we put as a task of the Ministry of Defence, the composition and opportunities are defined and how much the army will cost us. With some enormous political ambitions, we can feed such an army. What is enshrined in this Programme is extremely balanced. This is shared by our NATO allies. Me personally and my colleagues from the Committee on Defence from GERB are very pleased that at last the trend for financial assurance of the system is positive. That is to say, it is not to decrease by 2018 from the level of 2014 and from there to gradually increase and reach 2% by 2022, as were the decisions by Yels. I mean, the fact that the 73-23-6 ratio wasn't the Ministry of Defense's fault. The Department of Defense is a reformed system, believe me. Perhaps first in this country is reforming the Ministry of Defence to work on programs. The structures are optimized. The reason the ratio is not 60 20-20 for capital expenditure is that the system is underfunded. So with this budget, which this year is given and the trend further gives hope that what is enshrined in this programme and in this development plan will be implemented and the Bulgarian army will really be modernised with new systems, as they really grew old not only physically, and morally. In a very good way are the measurements for the efficiency of the whole system and for the percentage of gross domestic product and the ratio between staff support, wages and capital expenditure. This is a very positive thing for this program. I told you, the Ministry of Defence needed this Programme urgently, the army needs such financial support, such a trend for development and financial insurance, which will give us real confidence here by supporting this Programme, that the Bulgarian Army and the Ministry of Defence will fulfil their constitutional obligations. And their obligations under the Constitution, I am sure, will also be developed with regard to their participation in ensuring the country's internal security, as is already happening in all Union countries. So I think the document is really very well prepared. Congratulations to the Secretary of Defense. We invite everyone to support this document because we have no time to waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u173	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. - What's the line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? The people's representative Mr. Iankov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've heard the voices, I'll try to be as brief as possible and say only things that haven't been said here. However, I think it is important to know that the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the Armed Forces Development Programme. He'll support her, colleagues, for two reasons. The first reason is that such a document is necessary for the Defence Sector and it is extremely important. This document, honourable Members, will serve to establish the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces, and as long as there is a plan, we all know that there must be a report and an opportunity for control by Parliament. When there is a plan and clear points laid down in it, Parliament as a supreme institution will be able to exercise control in modern realities of how the Defence Sector fulfils its constitutional obligations. The second, honourable Members, for which we will support this document, is that it is quality. It has a high level of expertise and we believe that such expertise cannot be the subject of attacks from a point of view of populism or any narrow party interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there is no doubt that there is a policy in this document. However, there is a policy which is, to a large extent, a policy not as an argument but as a function. It's like a function of our commitments that we've made. These commitments are extremely important and must be implemented by Bulgaria. In addition, the expertise in it clearly structured how the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will be organized, according to the locations, more precisely the capabilities in which we are the best and we can truly deserve the respect of our NATO partners. We believe that this is extremely important in terms of the effective fulfilment of the constitutional obligations of the Defence Sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we still need to make it clear that at the moment perhaps the issue is not just the funding of the Defence Sector, because there have been more arguments for finances here about whether the financial resources are sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, perhaps three are the key words for the Defence Sector. One is a very good organisation and management, which we have very often commented on in the Defence Committee. The other is modernization and complete assembly of the Armed Forces, we correctly balance between the Air Force, the Navy and the Land Forces of Bulgaria. Last but not least, that's the motivation. At the moment, this issue, in the context of extremely dynamic threats and difficulties in fulfilling the obligations of the Defence Sector, motivation especially in the conditions of a professional army, where the performance of duties implies much more qualities of the serviceman than its direct commitments to the place where he works, this is an extremely important moment. Currently, the failure of the Bulgarian Armed Forces is over 4,500 officers, sergeants and soldiers. In addition, all those who are currently there have a high dose of hesitation whether to continue or find another realization due to problems with social status. Especially now if this is not removed in the transitional and final provisions of the budget, it would be a serious problem, and the Minister knows it. We are convinced that all of this will be taken into account, we and the Defence Committee have spoken about it, we will not serve, again I say, narrow-party interests or some populist things that may bring political dividends, but are not in the interest of national security. Dear colleagues, one of the main problems of the Defence Sector is the lack of continuity. Whoever comes to power usually looks to ignore what has been accepted and realized by the people who have ruled before him, and starts working again. Especially in the field of modernisation. We must now be aware of the time of action of the Programme, which we are adopting today, will be longer than the life of this Parliament. Whoever of us remains here, anyway, must lobby and make this program continue as political consensus and commitments, because otherwise it only harms Bulgaria, the Bulgarian citizens and the future generations of Bulgarians. I wish Mr. Minister good luck in the implementation of the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u176	Again, our parliamentary group will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u177	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Anyone else? There is a word from the National Representative Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, today we all want to speak on this Programme. First, I'd like to begin by congratulating the Minister on the good program. You've heard nice words so far, and you've heard them in the report. This is a realistic document, much more realistic than the Programme presented previously, which went to NATO and, you know, NATO had a report with negative things in it and negative assessments of the Bulgarian Army. That is, some expectations that we had neither how to meet as finances nor as deadlines. The continuity in the report is highlighted. Here and my colleagues before me just mentioned it. It's written all over this in connection with two directions and the missions of the Armed Forces and the White Paper of Defense. A chronologicality has been highlighted. Following this plan, which is the most political document of the Ministry of Defence, by the way, the so-called Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces, which in 2011, Mr. Borisov's first government adopted it and put it in the Law, and now every government is required, apart from a report by the end of March, to do for the state of the Armed Forces, to submit to the Council of Ministers such a Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces, where, of course, projects are recorded and after it is adopted, cannot be withdrawn from them and must be financed. As it goes to a strategic document, the programme contains numbers that correspond to what they agreed on at the NATO summit in Wales at the end of 2014 and, of course, to the President's Advisory Council. There was talk, you know very well, about these notorious 1.35%, which we need to reach this year compared to 2014 and the direction is 2% of gross domestic product. Main attention, and here my colleagues have noted it, and I just want to get involved in this, it is very important to talk about a reserve. It's very important to talk about stock. At a time when the world is shaking and Europe has a lot of problems, it is very important not to talk about increasing the Armed Forces, which cannot happen, but we must talk about the reserve, Mr. Minister. Of course, more positive things can be said about the program. I would like to say some comments, using the presence of the Minister, realizing that you and I today can vote either for the Minister or against the Minister. We can't change the document. Here are my remarks in the presence of the Minister, I hope they will be taken into account. For example, on page 25 of this Official 15 is written that the failure is very interesting the claim of investment projects for modernisation does not allow further reduction or optimization of personnel. That's not true! After 2000 there was more money than there is now, even with the 160 million levs we give for next year. They bought helicopters without bronze, bought transport planes that we probably didn't need as much as fighters, and so on. That is, money is not decisive and not investment projects, but the effective way of using which is actually pleading to the current government to do so. At one point there is a text that the number of the Armed Forces has reached a critical level. The numbers haven't reached a critical level, although it's written down that it has to be in some frames. I'm just going to point out something very relevant. The NATO Communication of 22 June 2015 stated that 0.9% of military and civilian personnel from the working population of Bulgaria are in the Armed Forces. The same is the average percentage for NATO countries in the European Union. We are very optimally behaved, and we do not need to say that the level is critical and thus cause unnecessary fears in the population. There is no balance, Mr. Minister, in this, when you define the plans of the Land Forces and what projects there will be in the Air Force and in the Navy, you know them better than I do. I hope that this too will crystalize in fact in the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces, and here only a broader framework has been made, despite this imbalance that is noticeable. It can be expected, of course, to have a little more courage in managing commercial companies. And one contradiction, which is essential. On page 1, page 1, 35 is written that the structure of the military education system will not change until 2018. Immediately on the other page is written, I will read it verbatim, quote: I understand that there are a lot of lobbyists for the topic "Aviation" but we cannot talk in the Ministry of Defence's Market Program. The Ministry does not have such functions, we cannot talk about vocational aviation training. It doesn't even say war, so I'm asking you, despite this text, to keep that in mind and not to go to such extremes. I'm graduating, of course, by pointing out that in the end, I think it was in point. 9, there are 11 immediate challenges and tasks. I also said it in the Commission. I tried to move them. I can't even move them. Congratulations on this excellent finale of the program. I hope that with the notes that I have said to you and with what my colleagues have said, you will respect this conviction in addition to the fact that our GERB Parliamentary Group will vote and support the Programme, to persuade others to vote, if possible, with a full majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u179	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u180	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u181	I won't. I call on the Quaestors to invite colleagues to vote, as well as the secretaries of parliamentary groups to call on their colleagues. If you want, because the Minister is here and wishes one minute to inform us finally until the Members of the National Assembly meet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Only words of gratitude! I'll be very brief. I take this opportunity to thank the MPs from the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Policy, to thank each and every one of you! I would like to stress that this document is a fact based on the efforts of many. It was drawn up on the basis of a very broad discussion, which I was actually seeking. We started discussing it at the beginning of this year and each of the parliamentary groups was informed and dealt with it. We have complied with all the proposals made to the team that was preparing the programme. I would like to inform you that the aspiration for mass discussion of this type of documents will continue when they concern the national security of Bulgaria. I will continue to consult each and every one of you in the future. Yeah, thanks again for the support! To wish success to the Bulgarian Army and to all servicemen in particular! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u183	Mr. Minister, after all, in order to thank you, we need to vote and see the result. Honourable Members, we are voting: "A decision" adopting a Programme for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and determining the number of armed forces The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 6 and 7 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Adopts a Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. 2. Determines the total number of armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria not less than 37 thousand and not more than 40 thousand people. Honourable Members, voting regime. They voted 114 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 7. [[Applause from GERB.]] The motion is accepted. Thank you for your participation, Dear Minister. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. Report on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Rumen Hristov, you will have time to read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention a summary of: ♪ I can't believe For the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Practice, No 502-01-95, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 24 November 2015, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Practice, No 502-01-95, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November. This Decision shall Representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and NGOs took part in the work of the Commission. The bill proposes the following major changes. A legal basis shall be established for issuing a regulation on the terms and conditions for carrying out subsequent controls on the activities of persons carrying out official controls. It is envisaged that the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and's administration is to be adopted for a period of three years. The financing of prevention measures and activities will be carried out, as so far, in the form of State aid from the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Additional requirements for veterinarians practicing veterinary practice shall be introduced. Registered veterinarians will have to carry out at least once every two months clinical examinations and verification of official identification of animals at establishments with which they have service contracts. In cases of suspected diseases that are at risk of rapid and widespread spread or risk of significant economic losses, teams of veterinarians from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency system are provided for to carry out appropriate checks. An obligation shall be introduced for the owners of animals and the users of establishments with farmed animals to notify immediately the veterinarian serving the establishment as well as the official veterinarian in the event of deterioration of the overall status of the animals. It is regulated that activities for the disposal of animal by-products and derived products may, where necessary, be carried out both in fixed and mobile incineration and co-incineration plants. Registration shall be made for operators who trade in animal by-products and products derived thereof without keeping them. The Commission received opinions and proposals from NGOs and parties, as well as from the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. They will be taken into account between the first and second votes. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs agreed between the first and second votes to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals. Many of the speeches were in favour of the proposals submitted by the Bulgarian Veterinary Union and the branch organizations. All comments are prepared to be taken into account and the texts to be refined between first and second readings. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 5 votes in abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Activity, No 502-01-95, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u185	Thank you, Mr. Christov. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u186	Mr. Chairman, it is now 13.59 p.m. If you find the debate in an almost empty room, that means there will be no debate at all and we will proceed to the vote on such an extremely important bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u187	There have been statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u188	I didn't hear it, and I didn't see any statements being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u189	There's been a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u190	I think it is better that this debate is why I am taking a procedure to continue in a normal situation, which will put the draft to a serious discussion by fellow Members of the National Assembly. I must remind you that the bill was tabled on 23 November and is already in plenary in just two days! This at the very least brings the thought to remind you, colleagues, that you should read the Bill well because it has been submitted, in two days it has been examined through the committees at an extraordinary meeting, at which, as far as I know, most of the colleagues have been absent. Since it is now 2:00 p.m., I ask you to announce the end of the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-25.u191	Thank you. Mr. Bayraktarov, I don't understand what your procedure is but to proceed? [[Laughter, excitement.]] The debate on the Bill will actually continue tomorrow morning after 9:00. As the time is up today, I declare the conclusion of the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
