ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention a Project for the weekly program of the National Assembly for the period from 11 to 13 February 2015: 1. A draft decision to complete the management of a permanent committee. Importers... Radan Kanev and Nayden Zelenogorski. 2. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importers sveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act on a joint project, based on the laws adopted in the first vote on 18 December 2014. Importers "Peter Slavov" and a group of MPs and Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. On a proposal from the Conference of Presidents with extended working hours today, this bill will be debated by 16.00. 4. Point 4 as provided for by point 4 1 for Thursday, is the Second Voting of a Bill amending the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and controlling toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. A bill ratifying an Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 17 December 2009. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. 9. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. Voting mode. Vote 160 MPs: 151, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Proposals have been made under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be included as items on the agenda for our weekly programme. First at the time is Mr. Mikov's proposal to include a draft decision to supplement the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly's activities. No 454-02-78 of 22 December 2014. Importers Mr. Mikov, you have an opportunity to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the events, including in Ukraine, but not only determine the need for the National Assembly to have a permanent Commission for Bulgarians living abroad, both those who are in emigration with Bulgarian personal documents and the Bulgarian communities in different countries of the world, who must feel a special concern of the Bulgarian State, of the Bulgarian National Assembly. Why is the Commission necessary? Because their problems are related to the activities of all committees regarding documents, relations with the country, economic and social issues, issues of relations between Bulgaria and the countries in which they live constantly. That is why, as early as December, we have allowed ourselves to propose the establishment of such a deliberate specialized Commission of the National Assembly, and I believe that the last situation also determines the need for the existence of such a Commission in our National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Voting mode. They voted 161 MPs: 85, against 20, abstention 56. The motion is accepted. This item is included as the last item in our weekly program. The next proposal by the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria was made by Mr. Rumen Gechev, who proposes to include in the Program a draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Financial Status of Pension Funds and the Efficiency of the Supervision of them, No 554-02-5, as of 5 February 2015. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! We offer your attention and expect your support for the inclusion on the agenda of this extremely important committee, which should study, analyse and present results and recommendations to Parliament before we take strategic decisions on the fate of pension reform and over 8 billion. BGN, which are held as assets in the pension funds. Since this concerns the interest of millions of Bulgarian citizens and is definitely a non-party issue, we expect and demand your support so that we can address this issue in due course and so that we can be useful to the National Assembly. We are almost in mid-February. The committee's work will be ready with recommendations for March and April, when the ruling coalition will also propose options for exiting from the problems of pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. This issue was discussed a little earlier today at the Conference of Presidents. There is a complete understanding of the need for debate and voting on this draft decision. Once we're done with the agenda by the order of para. 3, I will propose to your attention an agenda for an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday at which, as the first item, the General Decision of the Conference of Presidents is intended to discuss precisely the draft decision on the establishment of this temporary committee. Do you want to vote for today's inclusion? That is, after this vote, I will also propose the agenda for the extraordinary sitting. [[Reply of the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] You agree. There is another proposal from Mr. Zhelyo Boychev from BSP left Bulgaria. It proposes to include a draft decision on the need to review the EU's sanctions policy on the conflict in Ukraine. However, the same proposal was made in the plenary sitting on 3 February 2015, it was rejected by a vote and, under our Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility that it will be proposed again in that order so soon, which is why it will not be put to the vote. Dear Members of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 17 February 2015, Tuesday, from 9.00 to 19.00 on the following agenda: 1. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pension funds and the effectiveness of their supervision. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. 2. Parliamentary control under art. 90 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Voting mode. Vote 171 MPs: 166 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions on the time from 4 February to 10 February 2015. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer "Magdalena Tasheva" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is leading, it is also assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer "Julian Angelov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs will see it, and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights will see it. A draft decision to complete the Commission's management on children, youth and sport. Importer of the MPs Radan Kanev and Nayden Zelenogorski. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead, and the Committee on Legal Affairs will look at it as well. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pension funds and the effectiveness of supervision over them. Importer "Mihail Mikov" and group of MPs. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer Peter Kanev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is leading, and more is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill to supplement the Religion Act. Importer Dimitar Dubov and group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead, and more the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will also be the lead of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer "Daniel Kirilov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and implementation of FATCA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 31 January 2015. Importer Project for Fiscal Council and corrective mechanisms. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the leading one, and also the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill for ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the quality of Enumerator and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HESBC Bank P LC, Societe General and UniCredit Bank AG as Organizers and Dealers on the global medium-term programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for issuing bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Agency Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria, acting as Enumerator and Citibank N.A., branch London, acting as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Replace Agent, Transfer Agent for Citigroup Global Markets Deutscheland AG as Register, Payment Agent and Transfer Agent for the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015 and on the Act on the taking-up of commitments by the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer on the global medium-term programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for issuing bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015. The bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers and allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Project for a declaration of the Bulgarian position on the military conflict in the territory of Ukraine. Importer "Mihail Mikov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence. Draft declaration of the Forty-third National Assembly for non-participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in military actions and support efforts to peacefully resolve the conflict in Eastern Ukraine. Importer "Borislav Borisov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence. One more message: In the period from 6 February, two materials from the National Statistical Institute have been received to the National Assembly, containing results from statistical research for December 2014, as follows: Indexes of turnover in Section "Retail Trade" without the trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles; indexes of industrial production and indexes of construction production and information for consumer surveillance conducted in January 2015. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will express the position of the Patriotic Front regarding the conflict in Ukraine and the problems of the Bulgarian minority there. The continuing military conflict in Ukraine has turned Europe into an area of tension and uncertainty and has resulted in economic losses not only for the affected countries, but also for all European countries. The patriotic front therefore supports the efforts of the leading European countries to end the war and seek a peaceful way out of the situation. With increasing concern, however, the Patriotic Front monitors the situation in Ukraine and the situation of the Bulgarian community there. The deepening of the conflict in Eastern Ukraine threatens to turn the Bulgarian minority in this country into a accompanying and ridiculous victim. According to data from the organizations of the local Bulgarians in Ukraine live over half a million of our compatriots. The most compact mass of Bulgarians live in Odessa region over 200 thousand. Souls. In the neighboring military action Zaporozhka district live about 50 thousand. Bulgarians. In the areas of the very military activities around Lugansk and Donetsk, live between 8 and 10 thousand. ethnic Bulgarians. The civil war in Ukraine confronted Bulgarians on both sides of the barricade. This is a tragedy that the Bulgarian state should not look at without being careful. Already hundreds of our compatriots have approached us with a request for help and are demanding a more active attitude of the Bulgarian state institutions towards the threat to their lives, not wanting to be involved in a bloodthirsty civil war in which they have already died according to various sources around 40 of our compatriots. The Bulgarians in Ukraine accuse the Ukrainian authorities of disproportionate mobilization of representatives of the Bulgarian minority against the other ethnic groups, which is why hundreds of Bulgarians have already emigrated to neighbouring Moldova and hundreds of others wish to receive visas to come to Bulgaria. Here they face the sluggish Bulgarian bureaucracy, which delayed for months the certificates of Bulgarian origin and the issuance of visas. Unlike Bulgaria, other European countries that have a similar problem, although with much smaller minorities in Ukraine, such as Poland and Hungary, issue temporary residence documents in their countries within only 48 hours. Honourable Members, despite the efforts of the international community, including countries such as Germany and France, to halt military action, the crisis will continue for a long time. It can force thousands of our compatriots to seek shelter in the homeland of their ancestors Bulgaria. The question arises: Is Bulgaria ready to accept the troubled countrymen? Should we watch ethnic Bulgarians perish in a mad civil war?! Can we stand still when hundreds of thousands of our compatriots are put to the test and risk, and many of them have not only turned their eyes on us but also called us for help?! In the less distant history of Bulgaria it was the Bessarab Bulgarians who were always empathetic when Bulgaria needed them. Thousands of Besarab Bulgarians fought in the fight for the liberation of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery, and later in Serbian-Bulgarian, Balkan and World War I, as well as in the readings about the liberation of Macedonia and Thrace. The glory of Bulgarian weapons and military victories is also due to Bessarab Bulgarian, such as General Danail Nikolaev, General Ivan Kolev, General Georgi Todorov, General Georgi Yagura, Major Olympi Panov and dozens of others. Builders of the modern Bulgarian state after the liberation from Turkish slavery were Bessarab Bulgarians, such as Alexander Malinov and Dimitar Grekov, who were prime ministers of Bulgaria. In the post-liberation Bulgarian science and culture left their names the Rectors of Sofia University Alexander Balan and Professor Dimitar Yagura, as well as Vladimir Djakovic and Ivan Vulpe. In the past 25 years several thousand Besarab Bulgarians have moved to Bulgaria and today are respected citizens, doctors, engineers, economists, artists and others. Dear colleagues, we from the Patriotic Front believe that Bulgaria cannot be a silent witness to the tragedy hanging over the heads of our compatriots in Ukraine. That's why the Patriot Front offers the following things. First, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in the convened meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security to consider the issues raised by our compatriots in Ukraine related to the problems that exist because of the civil war there. The government urgently prepare a plan for acceptance and accommodation on the territory of our country's compatriots seeking asylum from the military conflict. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should take the necessary steps to establish the correctness of claims about the disproportionate rate of mobilized ethnic Bulgarians in Ukraine against other ethnic communities, as well as to establish the actual number of our compatriots who died in the conflict. The Foreign Ministry will provide through the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria the possibility of issuing free long-stay visas for these compatriots. The Ministry of Justice should speed up the examination of files of Bulgarians from Ukraine who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria should organise humanitarian aid in due time to the needs of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine. The past passive behaviour of a number of Bulgarian governments regarding Bulgarian communities abroad, as well as the conflict that we are seeing, proves once again the need for consistent and serious state policy in relation to Bulgarian communities living abroad. I hope that the steps taken yesterday by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be repeated and linked not only to this conflict, but will also be precisely the beginning of the development of such a strategy and consistent Bulgarian policy. This requires the Bulgarian government to draw up a strategy for Bulgarian communities abroad and take decisive steps in the field of foreign policy in order to protect national interests. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front launched a legislative initiative for the urgent adoption of an amendment and supplement to the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. These proposals are supported not only by the parties representing the majority in the National Assembly, but also by other political forces. In the direction of conducting a national responsible policy regarding Bulgarians abroad, the Patriotic Front will rely on all state institutions and parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, there is no room for small party accounts and the buying of cheap political dividends around the conflict we observe in Ukraine. Therefore, the National Assembly, the institutions of the Republic of Bulgaria must act promptly and quickly. The interest of Bulgaria and the Bulgarians around the world should be placed always and above everything. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front and single applause from GERB and the Reformation Block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. On behalf of GERB for declaration Then there's the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In recent weeks, the information area has been contaminated by unjustified, contradictory, often incomplete and false information about the policy Bulgaria is leading in the Balkans in its relations with its neighbours, with its partners from NATO and the European Union, with the United States of America and Russia and on the occasion of the conflict in Ukraine. In our country there are political forces and leaders who use such information environments to strengthen their positions, mobilize their electorate before the local elections or have any other goals. And all of this without considering the unfounded fears that awaken in Bulgarian citizens by insinuating uncertainty and fear of the future. This behaviour is most often masked behind verbal equilibrystika and enjoys the understandable insufficient awareness of citizens, given the specifics of this topic. This is how some politicians in our country understand democracy, unfortunately. Certainly, in order to hear these voices so loudly, apart from democracy and freedom of speech, we are responsible for all of us who are closer to national security and European and Atlantic values, no matter what political power we are from. The biggest responsibility for hearing the truth is the responsibility of the political party GERB, the party, which for the second time received the voter confidence and which, together with its coalition partners, assumed responsibility for the country's governance. That is why today we are announcing some actual truths that Bulgarian citizens should know. The first is: three months after the formation of the coalition government it is obvious that the country's governance is stabilized and Bulgaria again enjoys the trust of the international partners. Operational programmes for the next programming period up to 2020 of over 6 billion have been approved. lv. Our banking system is stable and the first steps are taken towards reforming the various spheres of public life. These are the facts, and they should be glad to see each and every one of them. from us. Second truth: as a member country, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the NATO Armed Forces. Therefore, any accusations and fears that NATO servicemen and armed personnel will reside on our country's territory are nonsense. Following the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty on 18 March 2004, by the Thirty-nineth National Assembly, we are part of NATO. Bulgaria shall build its armed forces in accordance with art. 3 of this Treaty, and its defensive national strategy, relying on art. 5 of the Treaty. For more than ten years, we have proved to our NATO partners that we are worthy, predictable ally and that we share the democratic values of the Alliance. Those are the facts. The other is incompetence and abuse of the truth. Third truth: the decision to deploy NATO coordination centres in Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia was taken at the Wales Summit last September. The establishment of such a centre in Bulgaria does not mean preparation for war. It is part of the defensive planning and will support the coordination of the multinational preparation and implementation of the exercises. The equipment of this centre and its personnel cannot be used for any offensive action. By building such a centre, we are fulfilling some of our collective defence obligations. This is a step towards adapting NATO to the new security environment in the region, which leads directly to an increase in collective security. Those are the facts. Loading this centre with other functions and tasks through political speaking and speculation is speculation. Fourth truth: There is still a NATO centre in Bulgaria. The NATO Crisis and Disaster Management and Response Centre is located on the territory of the Military Academy of Rakovski. Its mission is to summarize and study the knowledge and experience of the Alliance countries in response to and prevention of crises involving natural disasters, industrial accidents and others. The creation of this centre began at the time of the first GERB government, was supported by the triple coalition, with the caretaker government and its final accreditation this year. This proves that the existence of NATO centres is not new for Bulgaria. This should not surprise at least us politicians who have voted for the construction of such centres so far. Those are the facts. They're true. Our position is that the crisis in Ukraine must be resolved peacefully, through negotiations, respecting the principles of the territorial integrity of the country and respecting the rights of all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their ethnic and religious affiliation. The issue of the Besarab Bulgarians is of paramount importance to us and proof that Bulgaria proposed and adopted a text from the European Council on 29 January this year, in which Ukraine is called upon to respect proportionality in mobilizing different ethnicities. The process for issuing visas to our compatriots has already been accelerated, who believe that their lives are threatened and wish to come to Bulgaria. Humanitarian aid is also being prepared. Those are the facts. The sixth truth: Russia is not a threat to Bulgaria. The great threat to our country actually comes from those who spread rumors that Bulgaria will go to war with someone, or someone will go to war with Bulgaria. Bulgaria has no intention of fighting with anyone and is fully building its armed forces for defence and defence purposes. Those are the facts. The seventh truth: preserving the number of the Bulgarian Army. But the funds, especially for capital expenditure in the Ministry's budget, have to increase in times. The budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2015 is composed of the understanding that the state's difficult economic situation should also be shared by the Ministry of Defence. However, the potential for full compensation for the reduction of the budget of 66 million is preserved. lv. In the case of good governance by using the authorised greater debt of 56 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: lv. of its own income. Capital expenditures increased by 4 million, and for the first time in years they have reached 5% of the Ministry of Defence's budget. With this the government of GERB stresses its conviction that the re-arming of the Bulgarian army has no alternative and should be supported despite the difficult financial situation of the state. It should be known that in the period 2000-2014 Bulgaria had an average of 2.1% of gross domestic product for the Ministry of Defence. Far more than different countries in the Alliance. The question is how and how effective these funds are used so that today the Bulgarian Army does not have the desire for operational capabilities, the purchased new helicopters without protection, the frigates without the necessary armaments, our aviation being in difficulty and so on. This is a question, however, which other parties should answer, not a political party GERB. Those are the facts. The eighth truth: based on the White Paper of Defense and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces in the period 2011 - 2012, the GERB government carried out an analysis and updated the necessary wartime formations and structures, as well as the necessary numbers and techniques for their completion. Such an update was not made since the 1980s and the old mobilisation plans of the Warsaw Treaty were in effect. On the basis of these updates, the Forty-second National Assembly on 25 October 2013 decided to define military formations and structures to complement the Armed Forces in military time and the number of reserves to be reached at the end of last year. This decision, honourable Members, was supported by all parliamentary groups without exception. In implementation of this decision of the National Assembly, the Central Military District has begun to inform the leaders of their distributions since then, in accordance with the new military formations. Those are the facts. It's routine activity. There is no preparation for mobilization and preparation for war. Such information has been abused by some of our colleagues. And the ninth truth: The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted to the National Assembly, concerns the creation of an opportunity for Bulgarian servicemen or civilians to take up positions in NATO structures in the country's territory, in the centre of NATO, for example, for crisis management and real disasters that exist. Identical Law on Amendment and Supplement to the ZOVS of the Republic of Bulgaria is also submitted by the government of Mr. Oresharski, which the Defence Committee of the Forty-second National Assembly adopted unanimously. Today this text is on the attention of our National Assembly. Today and tomorrow there are committees to discuss it. In this sense, there is nothing new and surprising in these legislative changes and any speculation, and I quote that the proposed amendments to the Defence Act and the armed forces are designed to serve under foreign command, are malicious and harmful. For more than ten years, Bulgarian servicemen have served in NATO's international command headquarters. In them, our officers lead soldiers from other armies, as well as officers from other armies lead our soldiers. Currently, for example, Bulgarian officers occupy over 40 different command posts in NATO. Those are the facts. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we all have our political biases, we express and believe in the values of our parties and we insist on being accountable to our constituents, but when it comes to national security, about our country's involvement as a predictable and loyal partner in the processes of preserving peace and order in international relations, we must rely on the truth, the truth about the decisions we have made ourselves and about which we ourselves are responsible. With this declaration from the political party parliamentary group GERB, we call on you to stop the oppression of fears and tensions in Bulgarian citizens, to be constructive and responsible for the issues of national security, the protection of the country and its future. In the context of the forthcoming resolution of complex issues of global policy related to events not far from our borders, with more reason and dialogue, we call you together to find the best solutions for Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Radev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kanev, according to his commitment, and this Wednesday the parliamentary group of the DPS continues to write the lively chronicle of political repression. But before I move on to the subject in substance I would like to make another commitment to the co-chair of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformist Block Mr. Radan Kanev. Mr. Kanev, on Friday you took over...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u11	He's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u12	He's gone. Maybe he's in the ministries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u13	Mr. Anastasov, the time of the parliamentary declarations groups does not provide for dialogue with individual representatives, so be it the heads of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u14	I don't have a dialogue, he's not in the Chamber to have a dialogue with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u15	That's what you're doing. Now that he's not in the room, what kind of commitment do you have to make to him? Read your statement from a group, I'll take your word, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u16	Mr. Kanev, on Friday you made a specific commitment. What you have done, however, is the less important issue today. The culture of debate, colleagues, and in particular that of political debate, requires defending or attacking these and arguments. This is the tradition of the European culture of political debate. In some past times, the answers and questions of these were replaced by the question: "Who is asking? " You, Mr. Kanev, in your frustration to disprove those of us for the xenophobic political repression by the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front, have resorted to ugly slanders and at the address of your political opponent. And not from the National Assembly stands, but from the TV screen. In this order of thinking too modestly is the proposed personally by you and by the Reformation Block ZIP of the Law on Administration. Enter the requirement for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master and not only at the level of district governor and deputy minister. Let the same rule apply to members of the Council of Ministers and why not to your favorite political advisors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u17	Mr. Anastasov, when this bill is put on the agenda for discussion by the plenary, then... [[Reply from the MP Stanislav Anastasov away from the microphones.]] I can hear you very well. Either you return to the subject of declarations, or I will take your word, Mr. Anastasov, and I will sanction you. I am officially giving you my final warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u18	If you have any considerations, colleagues, do not do so, then the DPS will propose relevant texts between first and second readings. Here are two diplomas for you, colleagues. I won't ask Mr. Kanev what diplomas he has, but in the spirit of tolerance and given the fact...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u19	Mr. Anastasov, I take your word for it. Take your seat. I will also impose on you a penalty for non-compliance with warnings. Are there any other declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups? Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! We of the Reformation bloc are extremely worried about the growing activity of destabilizing factors that fuel fears and hatred in Bulgarian society to serve foreign interests. Bulgaria is a full member of NATO and fully relies on its structures and organization to protect its borders and territorial integrity. Any manipulation of public opinion by setting up against the North Atlantic Pact and its protective functions creates huge risks to the national security of the country and is a malicious attempt to break the effectiveness of the Pact by hesitating the positions of one of its members. At this extremely difficult international moment, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria is obliged to take a courageous and responsible position, defending in the strongest and most uncompromising way the national interests of the country and the security of the citizens. Ataka and BSP attempts to stand against this only nationally responsible position and to serve foreign interests clearly show anti-Bulgarian and anti-European nature. You cannot claim to be a part of Europe and its values and, at the same time, to support the inflammation of regional conflicts and the killing of a peaceful population. The Reformation bloc insists that the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria strongly supports the efforts and measures to engage NATO allies, the partners of the European Union and the countries with which Bulgaria has concluded international treaties to ensure Bulgaria's national security in full respect of the sovereignty and laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, the objectives and the principles of the UN. Secondly, the National Assembly and the executive in a permanent dialogue should continue to work to ensure the security of the country by using the mechanisms and instruments of NATO and the European Union. Thirdly, Bulgaria should declare a firm position that it will respect all its commitments as a full member of the North Atlantic Pact. We are convinced that a broad public consensus is needed to establish peace and stability in Europe and throughout the world. Thank you. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Are there any other declarations on behalf of groups? I won't. Moving on to our weekly program: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO FOLLOW THE MANAGING OF A STANDING COMMISSION. Importers Mr. Radan Kanev and Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski. Will you present the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u22	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Our proposal is for the election of Mr. Willi Mladenov Lilkov as Vice-President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the completion of the Commission's management of children, youth and sport The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Vili Mladenov Lilkov as Vice-President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Lilkov is a member of this Commission. According to its composition, she has so far been with a chairman and vice-president. The next vice-presidential seat is from the quota of the Reformation Block Group, which has not been occupied so far. In this regard, the proposal is made, which is quite reasonable. I vote on the draft decision to complete the Commission's leadership on children, youth and sport. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, Madam President, regarding your decision to withdraw the floor of the Vice-President of the DPS Parliamentary Group Mr. Anastasov at a time when he expressed his position on behalf of the parliamentary group. Firstly, I strongly disagree on my behalf and on behalf of the group, because when speaking on behalf of parliamentary groups very often from this tribune, I hope that you will not make me draw shorthands to prove this to you, and Mr. Radan Kanev and other chairmen of parliamentary groups address Mr. Mestan the President of the DPS and of the DPS Parliamentary Group, and conduct dialogue or sometimes even insult those to him and to our party. And you don't interrupt them, and you don't take their word away. If you think that you are right by the rules in taking away the floor of the speaker on behalf of a parliamentary group, even though I dispute this, because I believe that on behalf of a parliamentary group any of these can be expressed to anyone and on any subject, as long as this is not on the agenda, but if you think you have the right, please apply the same archin. From this tribune within this Parliament, under your Presidency, we have heard such insulting and ridiculous things about both Mr. Mestan and other representatives of the DPS, and our party, that what you have done seems very trendy to me and, to tell you the truth, to some extent, it seems to me that it is not within the framework of the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u25	Dear Mr. Tsonev, there is no trend. Of course, during the time fixed for declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups, it is permissible, and within the framework of parliamentary practice, to affect representatives of different parliamentary groups, but not after my intentionally addressed note to the Vice-President of your group to comment on a bill tabled by a parliamentary group other than the one which makes use of its right to a declaration not in the programme, we have rules for discussing a bill. This is my only consideration, which is why, after two warnings, the colleague was able to continue with the expected declaration and its content. That's my only argument. Imagine if we allow during the time of the parliamentary declarations groups to put forward statements on bills that have been tabled but are not discussed in committees and are not at all on the agenda, where we will get to. This will, in substance, be an abuse of the legislative rules and the procedure for examining the first and second votes of the relevant bill. For me, it is not admissible in the form of a declaration to make applications that proposals will be tabled between first and second readings, I repeat, on a bill which has not been discussed. That was my only consideration. If you check with the transcript, you will see that correctly twice before taking away his word, I tried to return the colleague to the content of the declaration. Second procedure, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I did not intend to get up on a point of order, but I am counting on you to refer to the text of the Rules of Procedure. 51, para. 6, based on which it is done, I say, this statement. This isn't even about a statement, Madam President. This is a statement and the content of the speech defines the speaker. Please carefully read para. Article 6 51. You cannot interrupt the speaker and define the subject on which he should speak on behalf of the parliamentary group. I believe that you violated the Rules of Procedure by refusing and interrupting the representative of the DPS to take an attitude according to art. 51, para. 6 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. This text stands on my attention whenever there is a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group, whoever it is, but this...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u28	Where does it say "speech"?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u29	A statement on behalf of a parliamentary group is your reminder, but this text should be interpreted in systematics with all the other texts that provide how a bill is dealt with after its submission to the National Assembly. I repeat, this is my only reason. I am far from thinking of defining the topic of speech of representatives of different parliamentary groups, but when this statement is used to violate dozens of rules from our Rules of Procedure, which discuss and vote on a bill, I think it is wrong. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has submitted a report on: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. It is No 554-01-2 and is imported by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before we proceed to a second vote on the Bill, please put to a vote in the Chamber Tsvetan Dimitrov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u31	Voting mode. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u32	In addition to the Act on the amendment and supplement of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 554-01-2 was submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 14 January 2015, adopted on the first vote on 20 January 2015. Name of the Law: the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for ownership and use of agricultural land. Regarding the name of the bill, a proposal was made by the National Representative Ahmedova, which the Commission did not support, namely: In the name of the Law, the word "use" is replaced by "use." The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the law, which I read just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u33	Speaking Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Ahmedova has made the proposal for amendments in the name of the Bill and we support this position by the DPS and we insist that the Commission withdraw its proposal and comply with the proposal made by Mrs. Ahmedova. The following are the following considerations: the official language in the Republic of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian literary language. The parliamentary tribune, the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, all the more so the texts of the laws that are respected in the state must be unconditionally understood in the literary language. The spelling norm for the word "use" is non-appellative. I have an explanation as to why importers do not want to give up momentum in the name of the Bill because they are pleased back in time, more than ten years ago, in the Bulgarian book language and the norms have the so-called "dubble forms": I am involved, I am using. Then, however, the norm of the book language is absolutely declarative: there is no double in these verb forms, nouns. You, Madam President, when you followed the work of the National Assembly here, made correct remarks that you should make the legal statement of each text because this is how it is promulgated in the Official Journal. It is unacceptable to walk by with condescension simply because the importers are of the ruling majority and to be lenient by violating the norm of the Bulgarian literary language. I believe that you must at all costs comply with the proposal of the DPS and correct the book-based nomenclature of this bill first. And, secondly, I know what bothers them: the technological alignment to the use of the law by other laws and regulations, which are obliged to bring by transitional regulations the stylistics when referring to the law, but I think that at all costs this recital cannot affect the violation of the norms of the Bulgarian literary language and accordingly make a tendency to violate the provisions of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u35	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u36	We do not comment on the correct spelling and spelling of the name. Indeed, in technological terms, we fail to complete the processing of all documents. Much more important things in this bill, which concerns farmers, have been changed. He started a campaign on March 1st. Understand, it is important that the Bill be adopted as soon as possible, and the four people who work in the Agriculture Commission simply cannot handle it, not that your proposal has no value, but we simply do not have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u37	Is there a second line? There's no second line. The hole is Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I think it is disrespectful to say Mr. Hristov that this is about understanding, condescending and breaking the rules of the law nomenclature in accordance with the provision for the official language in the Constitutional State and that you should want us to pass this provision at the time. Well, then, given the time, don't introduce bills, but follow the inertness of existing laws in the Republic. Speaking, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Absolutely unnecessary argument. Mr. Hristov, the literary norms do not depend on anyone's political will. And 240 MPs voting for this name of the Law will not change the book norm. Book norms are not established by an act of the National Assembly, but by the legal dictionaries of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. From this point of view, if you really do not want to waste time, to vote on a formal proposal everywhere in the Law, the words........................ are replaced by the literary norm.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's that simple. Two hundred and forty people are powerless to change the book norm is not a matter of our competence. The shortest way not to waste time, and each time we discuss the texts to have this dispute, is a joint vote..................... the verb forms used in this Law are aligned with the book norm, and we will not waste any more time. Everything else is insane and Parliament will be embarrassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u40	- What's the line? There are no lines. However, I have a procedural proposal to postpone the vote on the name, to continue on the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u41	It's all over the text. I'm using it, you know? That's the problem. Let's settle this in one second. This is a ridiculous argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u42	There are texts that aren't going down, and then we'll come back when we're done with the name. Mr. Mestan, § 1 and 2 come with other names. This is my proposal to postpone the title, to continue with the paragraphs. I'm putting it to the vote, colleagues. They voted 119 MPs: 79, against 15, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u43	There is a proposal made by the MPs Hristov and Hadzhiyski. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a The following 1. In para. 2, p. 6 words The animal identification system and registration system of the sites of use shall be replaced by the information system of integration and after the word of the Passages shall be a comma and added to the meries. 2. In para. 5 after the word "passionals" shall be comma and the meters shall be added. 3. In para. 6, p. 4 words The animal identification system and registration system of the sites of use shall be replaced by the information system of integration and after the word of the places of destination shall be commaed and added to the sites of use. There is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova. The Commission does not support it, however, it has not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u44	According to the basic text, which was read by Mr. Hristov, do you have any speeches? Mrs. Bachvarova, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is a proposal that fills a void in the Law relating to the restoration of ownership of land on farm yards. You know that under the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land art. 27 determines that land owners included in labour-cooperative farms receive shares. Some of these shares are in business yards. However, in these farmyards, the land under them is state property and the Property Act, a detailed procedure has been described in the Rules for its application which enables this land to be purchased by those who own the farmyards. The emptiness that has been assumed at this time is that we have farmyards in forest areas that are on agricultural land, and for them there are absolutely no written rules to be able to recover or pay the land on which these farmyards are. Yesterday, when we were debating in the Commission, the colleagues from the Ministry, whom I understand, have a lot of case files for the economic courts, must continue to increase and cannot be realised for years now, said that this should be in the Forest Act. But there are no such procedures in the Forest Act at all, no such rules. And since we are still talking about agricultural land that is in forest land, I suggest that, in support of this text, we make it necessary to restore the possibility that those owners of farmyards that are in forest areas can carry out the purchasing procedure so that from now on they can have opportunities to develop, apply for programmes and implement their policies in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u46	I understand, Professor. Bachvarova. Mr. Hristov, I ask you to read again in this House the main proposal that the Commission supports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u47	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24a The following 1. In para. 2, p. 6 words The animal identification system and registration system of the sites of use shall be replaced by the information system of integration and after the word of the Passages shall be a comma and added to the meries. 2. In para. 5 after the word "passionals" shall be comma and the meters shall be added. 3. In para. 6, p. 4 words The animal identification system and registration system of the sites of use shall be replaced by the information system of integration and after the word of the places of destination shall be commaed and added to the sites of use. This is the Commission's version.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u48	Are there any other statements? I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1. They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 has been adopted. Now the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova to create a new § 1, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Did you read it here? If it's not read, introduce it, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u49	I read the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: A new § 1 is being created. § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 6 in a sentence first after the expression "The closing provisions' shall be a comma and the expression "inclusive' shall be added on buildings and facilities located in the forest territory of the State. Paragraphs 1 and 7 shall become paragraphs 2 and 8 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u50	From what I understand, Mrs. Bachvarova has spoken on this proposal. Any other speeches? I won't. Please vote on the proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 38, against 48, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u51	According to § 1, there is a proposal made by the MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. I'll read you the text on this. 2: "2." Art. 1, Art. 1. 37b, para. 1 sentence 6 is created: "When two or more non-listed leases and/or leases of agricultural land have been submitted by co-owners, the legal basis shall be divided into ideal parts according to the number of declarations.' The next proposal is from the MPs Hristov and Hadzhiyski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The next proposal is from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. I read you the Commission's version after discussing the proposal: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the fourth sentence shall be amended as follows: "When two or more contracts have been submitted to the Registry Office, registration shall be carried out on the contract referred to in the declaration lodged by the owner.' (b) a new sentence fifth is created: If the owner has not submitted a declaration, the municipal agriculture office shall notify the parties to the contracts. c) the previous sentence fifth becomes the sixth sentence. 2. In para. The second sentence is created: "Towards the application users shall apply a declaration that they are not related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law to persons who have not repaid their obligations under art. 34, para. 6 and under art. 37c, para. 7 for the lands under art. 37c, para. 3, p. 2 for the previous business years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u52	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A proposal has been made by Hristov and Hadzhiyski, which is generally supported by the Commission, but at the very least I think that the purely legislative technique is not correct because by means of the Law on Property and Use, or the Usage, we will see how it will be amended, the Law on Cooperatives is changed on agricultural lands. This is not reflected in the Transitional and Final Provisions, but is reflected here, which is an incorrect legislative technique. In addition, in para. The second sentence is set up in the version of the Commission with regard to the Declaration of Announcement of Associated Persons. The proposal is good, but I think it also concerns the proposal under § 2, item 2. 1 and 2. It is a little further down, and there should also be added this proposal. In this sense, I make my proposal, although we have not yet reached it, but also in § 3 of art. 37 to add again the text for related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law. I think it's appropriate and reasonable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u54	Do you have any proposal to § 2 because this is the paragraph under discussion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u55	Within the meaning of the Commission, no. But I can't understand why, since the proposal is generally supported by Hadzhiyski, then it is not reflected in the Commission's version in general? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u56	Mr. Christov, do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u57	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u58	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov, which is not supported in this. 2. They voted 107 MPs: 22, against 25, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the Commission text for § 1, which It's going to be § 2. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The text of the Commission for § 2 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u59	Under § 2 there is a proposal made by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. Two and three. I read to you the unsupported text of the proposal of the National Representative Bachvarova: "2." c. 5 acquires the following content: It's five o'clock. In para. 7, in sentence two, the expression "in three years' shall be dismissed. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 The operative of the point changes to a new para. 15................................................................................................. 16................................................ Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. I will read the text of the importer: Proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: "1." Paragraph 2 of Article 2. 37c, para. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the first sentence is deleted and a new sentence is created first: "Employer of agricultural lands, on which by order of para. 4 are defined the lands under para. 3, p. 2, deposit to the bank account for foreign funds of the municipality an amount of the average annual rent payment for the land within three months of the publication of the order under para. 4. (b) in a sentence second after the words............................................................................................. The words "in a three-year limitation period' shall be added after the expiry of the amounts entered into the management of municipal property. 2. Under § 2, t. The text in point "in' is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 which is reflected in § 14, and does not support it under paragraph 14. 2. I read you the unsupported text: "2." In § 2, Art. 37c: Eliminate para. 15th para. 16................................................ Proposal of the National Representative Kalina Balabanova: ???????? Point 9 acquires the following content: Nine. A new para is being created. 15 and 16: (15) The Polish roads under the use arrays shall be provided to users of the respective arrays at their request by order of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture under art. 37c. The decision to rent the relevant roads and the rental price shall be taken by the municipal council by 31 June of the relevant year. The rental price determined by the municipal council cannot be higher than the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land. After issuing the order under art. 37c by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, the mayor of the municipality issued an order and concluded a contract with the designated user of the roads. The contract shall be concluded for the relevant business year after payment of the price determined by the decision of the municipal council. The user to whom the Polish roads are granted provides access to the properties declared and claimed for use within the following business year. (16) On the basis of the mayor's order, users shall pay the amount of the municipality's bank account within one month of the issue of the order. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from MPs Rumen Hristov and Nikola Hadzhiyski. The offer has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Ferihan Ahmedova and Saliha Emin. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 4 and 9, the proposal first and does not support it under the heading. Five and nine, proposal two. I am reading you proposal 5 and 9 which are not supported by the Commission: .............................................................................. 5 a.k.a. 7) The words "three months' shall be replaced by "one month'. ) (a.k.a. 9 (on the creation of para. 15) A sentence fourth is created: "The Polish road user is obliged to restore them at his own expense with the functionality of a Polish road, as laid down in the map of the restored property or cadastral map, within one month, after the request of the municipality, after a decision of the respective Municipal Council, or by owners whose land estates are directly bordered by the used roads so that they have unobstructed access to their properties. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37c The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 4 is created: "In the preparation of the project of distribution in the work of the Commission, the owners and/or the users of agricultural properties in the respective land, who expressed their express desire to participate in the procedure for setting up arrays for use under art. 37b, para. 3. 2. In para. 4 A sentence 2 is created: The order also includes the Polish roads designed in the Landing Plan and the roads reflected in the Landing Plan, in the map of existing and renewable old boundaries and in the map of the restored property irrigation channels which do not function in the arrays for use of the relevant................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: In the case of an agricultural land owner, the agricultural land owner shall be the owner of the agricultural land and shall be the owner of the agricultural land owner of which by the order under para. 4 are defined the lands under para. 3, p. 2 shall submit to a transit budget account in the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture an amount of the average annual rent payment for the land within three months of the publication of the order under para. 4. The amounts shall be depositable and paid by the Regional Directorate of Agriculture to the rightful persons on the basis of the order of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture under para. Four in ten years. For users who have not paid the amounts for the land used under para. 3, p. 2 according to the order under para. Article 4 shall apply. 34, para. 6 at the request of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, addressed to the mayor of the municipality. 4. They're creating an al. 15, 16 and 17: The agricultural land included in the use arrays and approved for support under the measure "Agro-environment payments' of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007-2013 shall be allocated without changing the location of persons approved under the measure where: 1. have submitted in accordance with the order of art. 37b to participate in the procedure property with an area greater than or equal to the area approved for support under the measure, and 2. owners and users, whose properties are provided to the persons approved under the measure, have stated their wish to participate in the procedure for establishing the arrays of use under this article with the same property. (16) The Director of the Regional Directorate of the Municipality is requesting to the mayor of the municipality for the provision of the properties of the Polish roads included in the order under para. 4 at the price of the average rent payment for the land. The mayor shall rule after a decision of the Municipal Council. Where, within one month of the request, the Municipal Council has not taken a decision, the Director shall determine in the order under para. 4 price of properties in the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land. On the basis of the order, users shall submit the amount to the municipality's bank account within one month of its issuance. (17) The user to whom the Polish roads are provided shall provide access to the properties declared and claimed for use within the following business year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u60	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the abuse of the so-called "white spots" has acquired really monstrous dimensions in Bulgaria. In this regard is also the proposal of the National Representative Mihail Mikov to limit the circumvention of the law and prevent the damage of the owners of these white spots to a maximum extent. The proposal is supported by the Commission in principle, but is not reflected in its full meaning and principle in the version of the Commission. Mihail Mikov's proposal aims to prevent the granting of a right to use arrays to persons who have outstanding liabilities. Moreover, this prohibition is extended by not allowing participation in an agreement, granting the right to use arrays to a person related to a person within the meaning of the Commercial Law with a person referred to in the preceding sentence, i.e. with a person who has not paid his obligations. This is not reflected in the Commission's version, although a related person within the meaning of the Commercial Law is the broadest possible concept of a related person under our legislation. It is comprehensively mentioned in the Transitional provisions of the Commercial Act, which is why I propose after the sentence "For users who have not paid the amounts for the land used under para. 3, p. 2 according to the order under para. Article 4 shall apply. 34, para. 6 at the request of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, addressed to the mayor of the municipality, to add the sentence to the statement of the municipality............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This proposal has been made.. you know what happens in practice. A legal person who does not fulfil his obligations does not pay within the time limit for the use of these white spots of the arrays, for the following year for two days registering a company again. You know, capital is allowed to be BGN 2. and again participates in the distribution of these white spots and so on and so forth. This damages, first of all, the owners of the white spots, second of all, both the state and the municipalities, which is why I propose this editorial amendment in the Commission's proposal. The Commission has indeed reflected that it supports in principle the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov. The principle of his proposal is precisely that point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u62	You have an offer you have to leave me?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u63	I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u64	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Atanas Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, what the Patriotic Front offers is, in our opinion, in correspondence with the desire for a more relaxed regime to use the so-called white stains of the users and is in view of their optimal management. Our proposal is in connection with § 2 of art. 37c of the Law and concerning those lands for which no contracts have been concluded or their owners have not submitted the relevant declarations under art. 37b of the Law, to deposit on a bank account for foreign funds of the municipality. Notice, amounts in the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land within 3 months. The main reasons for this proposal are not only the fact that it is recommended by the National Association of Municipalities. We propose that the funds in the amount of the average rent due, which the users of plots which are foreign private property, remain as white spots or unclaimed by their owners or for any other reason, be imported on a special account in the respective municipalities and not at the expense of the State. After the expiry of the limitation period of 3 years ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u66	Mr. Stoyanov, excuse me for a moment. I ask in the sector of the Bulgarian Democratic Center for more respect for the speaker! Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u67	After the limitation period of 3 years, the rents not sought by their owners will be targeted by the municipalities for the development of the respective settlements. We believe that the limitation period should be shorter than 3 years and should be referred to in this law and not in any other legal act which does not treat this case which we are currently debating. Our motives for this proposal lie in the fact that municipalities are interested in giving more deserted lands to land users because of the interest the municipalities themselves will pursue. On the one hand, they will be given as rents to people who, for one reason or another, cannot receive them under the current legislation and, on the other hand, to be able to accumulate funds in the respective municipalities, which would largely compensate for the costs of municipalities, and they inevitably have them, in the application of the law and would serve in the future precisely local economic development in the respective settlements. Of course, not least for farmers, it is most likely not relevant and it is much easier and more accessible to go to the municipality concerned than to have correspondence with the relevant state institutions in the field office....................................................................................... Here I would like to say that there are very serious arguments regarding these amounts being transferred to the State's account. Of course, there are serious arguments for this. We respect these arguments and this proposal, because in the end, the amount is not small at all..................................................................................... lv. However, we should not underestimate the administrative capacity of municipalities. Our proposal is in correspondence with having shared responsibility between state institutions and local authorities in the face of mayors and municipal councils, because, as there are probably concerns about whether municipalities will use this amount without regulation during a certain period of time, perhaps such concerns and doubts should also be in the face of the state. Moreover, by accumulating these amounts in municipalities, we, as a legislative body, will declare our positive attitude towards local authorities, and it is precisely this shared responsibility between state and local authorities that is very important in this case. In a nutshell, these are our motives for the proposal we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the MP Saliha Emin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although some of our proposals have been rejected and others adopted in the Committee on Agriculture and Food at yesterday's meeting, we still stick to our proposals and we will argue in the direction of their protection. With regard to § 2 concerning art. 37c In the preparation of the project of allocation in the work of the Commission participate also the owners or users of agricultural properties in the respective land, express their desire to participate in the procedure for setting up arrays for use under art. 37b, para. 3. Our motive is to preserve part of the so far good practice of agreements reached between owners or users themselves. The participation of owners or users will contribute to the preparation of a more qualitative and less controversial project of allocation of the arrays for use. ) (a.k.a. 4 We want the whole point to be dropped, namely this is about the litigation between individuals. Accordingly, in our view, it is appropriate to maintain the procedure applied so far to appeal the order for the distribution of the land massifs under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal before the Minister of Agriculture and Food guarantees greater speed and comprehensiveness of control. If the proposal under the Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land is adopted, this will result in the Courts being engulfed with cases of these complaints, while the administrative order for the handling of complaints can largely satisfy the applicants and thus save financial and human resources. It is also a practice for individual administrative acts which are issued under the application of the common agricultural policy of the European Union to apply the Administrative Procedure Code. The Minister for Agriculture and Food is the directly above-mentioned administrative authority in the course of an administrative dispute with individual administrative acts. ) (a.k.a. Paragraph 5 (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words "three months' shall be replaced by "one month'. This is our proposal, unfortunately rejected by the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Our motive to make this proposal: the proposed three-month period for the payment of the rent benefits users at the expense of the owners of these properties, the so-called white spots. The three-month payment period proposed in the project allows users to pay the amounts due from the subsidies they receive. At the same time, owners of these properties remain in a disadvantage given that not only other persons use their properties for which they receive financial support and owners cannot receive and have the extra payment in due time. In terms of t. 9 and the second point on the creation under para. 15 With regard to the Polish roads, indeed the reality is such that much of the Polish roads are already broken. With this CYD, the use of the Polish roads is legalized. Municipalities will receive income from this provision, users will receive subsidies, but we should not ignore the interests of landowners. Owners must have access to their properties if they decide not to rent them out more or rent them out. Honourable Members, the law on ownership and use of agricultural land, as well as the law on support for farmers, are the two main laws governing agricultural policy issues. On Friday last week, with political consensus, we adopted the Agricultural Aid Act because we believe that this law will settle the interests of our farmers. This law is also very important. I feel that I am very quick given the start of the campaign on March 1st, but still my request is: let us very carefully look at all the proposals and texts, Mr. Hristov, so that we do not make any mistake. If I'm not mistaken about the memory, the change in the law on ownership and use of the agricultural land that we're looking at today, maybe it's the 60th in a row. We really need to get a good look at them so that we don't have to make the 61st amendment with the adoption and entry of the law in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Emin. For the next speech there is the popular representative Svetla Bachvarova. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, in the haste that precedes the examination of the Law and its adoption in the Chamber, a lot of errors will be made, including the way we dispose of the white spots or the change in art. 37c. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the proposal which has not been adopted by the Commission, and it concerns the business distributions or agreements in which we have assumed that agricultural land which is included in the use and support arrays under the "Agro-environment payments' measure is allocated, where possible, without changing the location of persons approved by the measure. This is correct because those commitments that persons have with regard to the implementation of agri-ecology activities in a five-year period, when the location changes, lead to a penalty and a return of funds that they have previously acquired. However, this proposal, which was not adopted in the Commission, is linked to the desire that, in addition to those participating in agriecology, add to this group those who are fertilizing animal manure under the same procedure. Yesterday, the Commission made the remark that there was not enough opportunity to control these persons, but it turned out that the procedure to be followed in carrying out their activities was not only subject to control, but it was carried out separately by the municipal services............................................................................... Because these areas, which are being fertilized, require, firstly, the development of a plan, the approval of this plan by municipal services and a cross-compliance procedure with regard to the implementation of the programme. There are also commitments for more than a year. That's why I'm proposing to you in the version of "T." 4, para. 5 to agri-environment payments have been added, or are fertilized with livestock manure, if you consider this to be important from the point of view of precisely the possibility that these areas may benefit from those who invested in them. As regards the use of property, the Polish roads must enter by order and be distributed because otherwise there will be no legal basis for their use. What is proposed by the Commission is para. 16, there is an extremely large contradiction. On the one hand, we say that the roads are municipal property, but this municipal property, the disposal of it, is limited from the point of view of the municipal councils and the mayor. Why? Because, first of all, the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture is asking the Mayor if he does not react within one month, all functions related to the payments and the order are taken over by the municipal services of Agriculture. This, according to the way it is written, and the procedure proposed, is not very resonant. Perhaps for this year this should be the procedure given that by 1 March we should have registered legal bases, but for next year the municipal councils, which we think are interested in receiving funds from providing the Polish roads to those who are in their arrays, should have a procedure in which the municipal council is able to take a decision and accordingly prepare the necessary documents for the signing of contracts. Rather, here is the proposal that this is an exception for this business year, but not to be a rule and practice for the next business years, which will actually, as is now written in the Law, happen. With regard to the white spots. However we try to deal with the white spots, there is a problem with their delivery and payment. According to the Ministry of Agriculture for 2013 at 8 million The fee made in the municipalities is somewhere for 700-800 thousand. BGN, i.e. one tenth part is paid. The problem is that you are not paying and you are looking for opportunities and loopholes to avoid this payment. Therefore, the colleague's proposal, which has been made to seek the possibility that related persons may not be entitled through the Commercial Law, if they have not paid these fees in the following year, to use these lands, is one of the opportunities to limit the possibility of hiring them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u73	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! My concerns were that there would be a delay in making the roads available to users. Such danger opened the texts of para. 15th para. 16 of the Law adopted at first reading. In the end, I see that the Commission has complied with my concerns and, therefore, since my texts have been adopted to some extent, I withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u74	Thank you. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group in the part where the Commission does not support it. 2 et c. 3 of the proposal. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by a Member of the National Assembly. They voted 104 MPs: 24, against 48, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: 16 against 21, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mikov's proposal is generally supported. There is an unsupported part of Mr. Yavor Haytov's proposal. We are voting on its proposal in the part where the Commission does not support it. 2 of his proposal. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] By reaching the Commission's texts. They voted 99 MPs: 18, Against 34, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Balabanov's proposal was withdrawn from her. Tsveta Karayancheva's proposal is generally supported. Mrs. Ferryhan Ahmedova and Saliha Emin's proposal is not supported in the section under. 5 and so on. Nine of the offer. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Ahmedova and Emin in the part where the Commission does not support it. They voted 108 MPs: for 7, against 50, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. According to the Commission's text, there is a proposal which is alleged to be editorial in § 3 for a change in art. 37c in para. 7 after the text: "For the users who have not paid the amounts for the land used under para. 3, p. 2, according to the order under para. Article 4 shall apply. 34, para. 6 at the request of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, addressed to the mayor of the municipality. Mr. Popov proposes to add the following sentence: Mr. Popov, I have deep doubts that this is an editorial amendment. This is within the meaning of the content we commented with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov you should have proposed it to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u75	There is a proposal made that is generally supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u76	Yes, it is in the proposal, which is generally supported by the Commission. I put to the vote Mr Popov's proposal in § 3, item 3. 3 to change para. 7: After the end of the sentence the sentence was addressed to the mayor of the municipality to add the sentence which I have read.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Voting mode. They voted 103 MPs: 50, against 22, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, the meaning of the proposal, which is generally supported, is meaningless in not accepting this text. What are these tenants doing now that use the white spots? One year, in one municipality they play with one legal person and they don't pay, next year they go to the same municipality with another legal person, and this legal person goes to a municipality with which there was no relationship. I can take out and I'll make you a complete list of this scam by damaging the owners of the so-called white spots. The white spots are unconstitutional use of property, state, administrative. This discussion is held by the Third National Assembly. I do not see the point in accepting and saying that it is accepted and supported in principle if there remains the possibility with related parties that this scam will continue to damage landowners. Not to mention it's the same problem for the roads. A presumption shall be established that roads which are public property may be rented out. At the moment, the roads are broken illegally and instead of introducing order and legality in establishing a stable infrastructure in agriculture, the illegal situation is legalized by voting on this text. We will, of course, not support that. I am impressed by how something is supposed to be supported, but in fact the texts that are being adopted benefit the large tenants who are currently not complying with the law. That's what's going on. You should know that. We cannot support such a type of law, although it is said that something is generally supported. Our vanity is not about you telling us that you support something in general. It's a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u78	I put Mr. Popov's proposal for a supplement that reproduces part of Mr. Mikov's proposal between first and second readings of the law. They voted 114 MPs: 69, against 32, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Mr. Mikov's previous statement, the question was raised, which found arrangements in paragraphs 16 and 17 that Polish roads, which should provide access to the various properties, are in many cases ripped out. This practice now finds legal justification by enabling these users to obtain ownership of this land and to pay for it. I suggest that you put to the vote paragraphs 16 and 17 separately because, among other matters that are settled in this text, if they are adopted, this will be the result of the Parliament legitimising and encouraging the practice of removing the Polish roads, and in the future this will mean that these properties will only have to be used in huge arrays because no one could buy a property to which they do not have access. This is the content of the proposed text, and I fear that in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, once again the interests of the larger tenants, land users at the expense of compliance with a order that allows access to all properties. Decide what your vote will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u80	There's no proposal back. I put to the vote Mr. Stoilov's proposal in the version of the Commission for § 3 of this article. 4 paragraphs 16 and 17 to be voted on separately from the general text. They voted 108 MPs: 43, against 34, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 in its version of the Commission's report, in line with the decision on supplement, which has been adopted. 3 to para. 7. They voted 116 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u81	Paragraph 3. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and 3, and times t. 1 The proposal was withdrawn: "1." c. 3 is out. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov: In Paragraph 3, Article 3 is replaced by the following: 37f: Remove para. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from MPs Rumen Hristov and Nikola Hadzhiyski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37f The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The plan for land separation and the approved map of the existing or restored real land boundaries of agricultural land, as well as the map of the restored property, can be amended for the creation of land-based land with the order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The order shall be issued on the basis of a written agreement with notarized signatures of the owners of agricultural land and an approved plan for deployment. (2) Where agricultural land is included in the plan for settlement, the agreement under para. 1 shall be signed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, respectively by the mayor of the municipality or by persons authorised by them. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. Alinei 4 and 5 are amended as follows: The Municipal Agriculture Office, based on the approved plan, issues solutions and sketches for the landscaping properties. The decision describes the size and category of the property, its location (borders, neighbours) and the limitations of ownership with an indication of the grounds for doing so. The decision shall be served under the Civil Procedure Code and shall not be subject to appeal. The ownership of the landscaping properties shall be acquired from the entry into force of the decision of the Municipal Agriculture Office, which shall be accompanied by a sketch, certify the right to property and shall have the power of a notary act. (5) The plan shall not include property on which a mortgage is imposed, prohibited, burdened with other property burdens, subject to a pending legal dispute concerning the right to property, or limited property rights for which a division is carried out, or subject to an alienation procedure. 4. A new para is being created. 6 and 7: supplied properties, including their location in protected or violated areas and areas, shall be included in the plan for use with the consent of the owners. (7) The lease or lease contracts included in the lease plan shall be terminated with effect from the entry into force of the decision on the leases after the expiry of the relevant business year. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The costs of setting up land-based properties under an agreement of the owners shall be at their expense. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: The terms and procedure for drawing up and approving the plan shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: The approved plan shall be formally reflected in the map of the restored property or cadastral map and the registers thereof. No fees are due for its coverage and for the issue of the sketches for the weeded properties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u82	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova. Your proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u83	To explain that it wasn't. Madam President, colleagues! Indeed, the extreme haste to pass this law, almost today, now, has created extremely much tension and error in the report itself. As it says, the proposal is adopted under points 2 and 3, the main text remains para. 7. In other words, the lease or lease contracts included in the lease plan shall be terminated with the entry into force of a decision on the property. What's this about? We're doing a grouping of owners' land. How do we automatically terminate the lease contracts because we've grouped the land of these owners in some other place, and regardless of having contracts, they're officially terminated, that is, automatically? This proposal does not correspond to the lease contract, nor is it possible to support it in any form whatsoever. Because of five files, which the Ministry is trying to show that there may be a grouping of lands, and maybe they should tell us who these five are, all the other laws that operate in the state, including the Landing Act, we do absolutely nothing. The proposal is not accepted in the main text and we really should...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u84	You're suggesting the removal of para. 7 of the Commission's version.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u85	That's right, I suggest dropping out of para. 7. Otherwise, we enter into a colony with the other laws and it is not fair to those who have long-term contracts and must be terminated. I'm talking about those who run the land and are listed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u86	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov, which is for dropping out of para. 7, identical to Mrs. Bachvarova's proposal for dropping out of para. 7 of the Commission's version of § 4. We are voting at the same time as they are identical. Vote 98 MPs: 32, against 42, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the version of § 4 on the Commission's report. They voted 99 MPs: 79 against 14, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u87	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 (b) and (c) and (c) 1 et c. The proposal was submitted in 2 letters. Proposal from MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission does not support the proposal: "1." In § 4, Art. 37th, para. 6 the text. s June 1 to be replaced by March In § 4 art. 37th, para. 10 texts "supplied" July 1st to be replaced by "supplied" March 15th. Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Ferihan Ahmedova and Saliha Emin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 and the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The pastures, measure and meadows of the state and municipal land fund shall be rented out or rented out according to the order of art. 24a, para. 2 of owners or users of establishments with pasture farming animals registered in the Integrated Information System of BABBH, according to the number and type of registered animals, at a price determined under a market mechanism. Pastures, meria and meadows from the state and municipal land fund shall be rented or rented to persons who do not have tax obligations, as well as liabilities to the State Fund. 37c, para. 3, p. 2. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Passages" a comma is placed and a sentence is added and a sentence is created second is created: a list of the properties with categories and the average annual rent payments for the land or the municipality are announced in the municipal services of agriculture and the district offices of "Agriculture" and are published on the website of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture within 1 March. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 s12 are amended as follows: The Municipal Council shall determine by decision the pastures, meres and meadows for general and individual use. List of properties for individual use with categories and average annual rent payments for the land or for the municipality is announced in the municipalities and town halls and is published on the website of the municipality by 1 March. (4) The pastures, meres and meadows shall be distributed among the right-holders who have registered establishments in the respective land, according to the number and type of registered pasture animals, depending on the pastures, mere and meadows owned or legally used, but not more than 10 acres per 1 animal unit in a first to seventh category and up to 20 acres per 1 animal unit in an eight to tenth category. (5) The persons shall submit a model application to the mayor of the municipality by 10 March to which they shall apply documents. (6) The mayor of the municipality shall appoint a commission which shall determine the area necessary for each candidate under the order of para. 4 and distributes the properties for each land. The Commission shall draw up a report on the final distribution of the properties in the case of the required areas by 1 May. (7) In the event of a shortage of pastures, meria and meadows from the municipal land fund in the land to the allocated pursuant to para. 6 properties the commission concerned shall carry out an additional distribution in a neighbouring land, which may be located in a neighbouring municipality or district, and shall draw up a protocol for the final distribution of the properties by 1 June. This row applies until the property is exhausted from the municipal land fund or until the norm is reached under para. 4. The distribution is carried out consecutively in the neighboring land, municipality and district. (8) The Protocol under para. 6 or para. 7 shall be declared in the City Hall and published on the website of the municipality and may be appealed in respect of the area of the property allocated within 14 days before the Regional Court. The appeal shall not suspend the execution of the minutes unless the court order otherwise. (9) In the event of a shortage of pastures, measures and meadows from the municipal land fund after the distribution under para. 7 in the respective and neighbouring lands, on application by the rightful person within 10 June, the Committee on para. 6 provide the Minister of Agriculture and Food, or his authorised person with the protocols under para. 6 and/or para. 7 and a copy of the application for additional distribution of properties from the State Land Fund. (10) The Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture shall appoint a committee comprising representatives of the municipal services of agriculture and of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. The Commission shall allocate the additional area necessary for each candidate under the order of para. 4 in the respective and/or neighbouring lands and draw up a protocol on the final distribution of properties by the State Land Fund by 1 July. (11) The Protocol under para. 10 is announced in the Town Hall and in the building of the Municipal Agriculture Service and is published on the website of the municipality and of the respective Regional Agriculture Directorate. The Protocol may be appealed in respect of the area of the property allocated within 14 days before the Regional Court. The appeal shall not suspend the execution of the minutes unless the court order otherwise. (12) Based on the minutes of the committees under para. 6 and para. 10 and after payment of the rental or rent price, the mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. The minimum duration of contracts is 5 years of business. The contracts shall contain the data under para. 1, 4, 6 and 7 and are registered in the Municipal Agriculture Office. 4. They're creating an al. 13 and 14: The remaining free pastures, meria and meadows of the municipal and state land fund shall be rented out or rented out by auction, which shall allow only owners of pasture farm animals registered in the Integrated Information System of BABBH to participate. The auctions are held by the Regional Directorate of the Municipal Land Fund and by the Mayor of the Municipality for the Land of the Municipal Land Fund. Contracts shall be concluded for one business year. (14) The rest after the auction under para. 13 free pastures, measures and meadows shall be awarded by auction to owners of pasture farm animals and to persons who undertake to maintain them in good agricultural and environmental condition, in the order laid down in the rules of application of the law. The contracts shall be concluded in one business year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u88	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 22, against 36, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text for § 4, which becomes § 5, in the version of the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The Commission's amendment to § 5 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u90	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 5, which in the version of the Commission becomes § 6. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The text of the importer for § 5, which after the amendment of the Commission becomes § 6, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u91	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37l The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "passages" shall be comma and the meters shall be added. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The leases and leases referred to in art. 37th, para. 13: 1. may be terminated or amended before the expiry of the period at the request of the user; 2. shall be terminated before the expiry of the period in the event of a change of the conditions laid down in art. 37th, para. 4 except in cases of force majeure. 3. The creation of para. 3: The municipality shall terminate the leases and leases under art. 19 entered into in accordance with art. 37th, para. 12, 13 and 14, and provided by the municipal council pursuant to § 27 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (Art. 62 from 2010) following the decision of the Municipal Agriculture Office and the expiry of the business year in which the decision was issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u92	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The Commission's amendment to § 7 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u93	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Rumen Hristov and the MP Nikola Hadzhiyski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments 1. A new para is being created. 1, 2 and 3: The Municipal Council shall determine by a decision adopted by a majority of the total number of advisers: 1. the size and location of the measures and pastures for general and individual use, depending on the number and type of kept pastures in the territory of the respective land; 2. rules for the use of measures and pastures on the territory of the municipality. (2) The rules for the use of measures and pastures under para. 1, t. 2 contain: 1. promising working plan for grazing; 2. the parts of the measures and pastures intended for general and individual use and their distinction; 3. the parts of the measure and pastures intended primarily for mowing; 4. the ploughs for farm animals to the grazing sites and waterponds; 5. measures to protect, maintain and improve the measure and pastures, such as cleaning from shrubs and other unwanted vegetation, anti-erosion events, fertilization, temporary enclosures; 6. veterinary prophylaxis; 7. the parts of the meres and pastures intended for artificial pastures for sowing with suitable grasses; 8. construction of sheds; 9. introduction and rotation of parcel use of pasture complexes; 10. security; 11. regime of use, bans and restrictions depending on the specificities of topographical, soil, climatic and other physical conditions, and on the development of livestock farming in the territory of the municipality; 12. a map for the use of measurements and pastures by physical blocks defined in the system for identification of agricultural parcels. (3) The rules of para. 2 are announced on the website of the municipality. 2. Previously on AMC's... 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u94	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The text of the Commission for § 8 in its version has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u95	Proposal from MP Rumen Hristov and Nikola Hadzhiyski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2 after the words.Securities under the plan for separation... except for the Polish roads provided for use under art. 37c, para. The following points are inserted after point 16 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u96	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 9. Vote 87 MPs: 85 against 2, no abstentions. The Paragraph 9 created in the version of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u97	Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 40a: Art. 40a. (1) of a commercial company referred to in art. 3, para. 7, which has the right to property on agricultural land, a penalty of 100 BGN shall be imposed. on an agricultural land owned decare. (2) To a commercial company, which shall be three months after the imposition of a sanction under para. 1 has a right of ownership on agricultural land, a threefold penalty of the sanction initially imposed shall be imposed. (3) For each subsequent infringement shall apply para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u98	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 10 with the corresponding text on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal for the creation of § 10 with the corresponding text in the report is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u99	Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In the additional provisions in Paragraph 2g sentence, second is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u100	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 11 with the corresponding text on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create § 11 with a text on the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u101	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u102	We are voting on the importer's proposal for the name of the subdivision. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The importer's proposal supported by the Commission for the name of the subdivision has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u103	Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The offer has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings for issuing orders under art. 37c, para. 4 for the 2014-2015 business year shall be completed by the directors of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture by 27 February. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u104	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which is § 12. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal on the Commission's report on § 12 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u105	The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. For real estate, field roads defined in accordance with art. 37c, para. 16 and 17 for the 2014-2015 business year, rental contracts may be concluded for one year by 15 April 2015 or for them orders shall be issued in accordance with art. 37c, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u106	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 13 with the corresponding text on its report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with the corresponding text on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u107	A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under § 1, which supports it in principle under § 2, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 10 and supports it in principle under § 3, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 18. I will read to you what the Commission does not support. In the transitional and final provisions: 1. §§ 1, 2 and 3: ................................................................................... (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, respectively the mayors of municipalities, shall carry out an inspection of all contracts concluded over the last 5 years for renting or renting of agricultural land from the state and municipal land fund, including the measures, pastures and meadows, for compliance with the legislation in force at the time of their conclusion. (2) In the event of the finding of non-compliance with the contracts under para. 1 with the legislation in force at the time of their conclusion, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, respectively the mayors of municipalities, are taking appropriate action to end them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u108	Statements? Here you go. [[Heckling]] Let's take a break then. After the break, a speech. Thirty-minute break at 12.03, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u109	The Quaestors, please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. There's a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make speeches on the proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, namely the Commission rejected § 1 and paragraphs 2 and 3. Paragraph 1 states: ................................................................................... (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this Law, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the mayors of municipalities, respectively, shall carry out an inspection of all contracts concluded over the last five years to lease or lease agricultural land from the State and municipal land fund, including the measures, pastures and meadows, in accordance with the legislation in force at the time of their conclusion. This proposal has also been made in the last parliament. At first reading, it was approved, namely, we expressed the desire of farmers, so to review the contracts signed to the legislation then with companies that did not meet the requirements of the legislation. It's no secret that about a million. Deke pastures and lands to it at the time of conclusion of contracts are dedicated to companies which are not entitled to use these pastures and measure, and this subsidy after they do not meet the conditions. At the moment we are adopting a Law which, as a lustro, as a vision looks very good, seems to think about livestock farmers, but in practice it does not work out because all pastures and measures so far have been rented out. Very few are left, and this million decares, if reviewed and these pastures and measures are exempted from contractual relations, will be able, indeed, farmers who so far do not benefit from a subsidy for pastures and measure, as there are no such free ones, to be reassigned and the subsidy really goes to people who are directly engaged in farming, in particular livestock. I am surprised at the Commission's reluctance, despite the arguments we have made, to accept this proposal, although the Minister of Agriculture and Food yesterday of the Commission made a commitment in its part to state pastures and measures, after the adoption of the Law and after the middle of the year, to make a full examination and analysis of the contracts concluded with state-owned ones. Our desire and proposal was in this Law to include the obligation for the mayors to also review these contracts for municipal pastures and measures, so that we could ultimately correct the distortions that came with the dedication of municipal pastures and measures. Therefore, I strongly appeal, farmers expect this change, to really reconsider and approve our proposal, so that the Law, by really entering into its power, can help precisely these producers, namely farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u111	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs in the part where it is not supported by the Commission. We vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to come to the Chamber for a second vote, the sitting lasted nearly ten minutes ago. Vote 69 MPs: 23, against 40, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. REPORTER TSVETA KARAYANCHEVA: § 2 proposes by the MPs Ferihan Ahmedova and Saliha Emin. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. I'm reading it. 2 which the Commission does not support: In § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, to add a new § 5 anywhere in the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, where the word "use" is found to be replaced by "use."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u112	We return to the delayed vote on the name of the Law. After consulting Final Texts, the legislative references, it became clear that we had a practice in which a bill amending and supplementing a law with a specific name could change the name, as it turns out, in view of the fallen archaic form that was in force at 1991 when the Law was adopted. In order for this to happen, we need to vote on some decisions. Since the bill has been tabled with this name, we must support it and have it as an archaic name in the promulgation in the Official Journal. However, we must then vote on the wording of § 1 in the name of the Law, the word "use" is replaced by "use." I vote on the Commission's proposal to support the name of the law, as it is by importer. We vote, we accept it, so that in the promulgation of it we can write § 1, where the use will now become the use and then there will be a transitional and final provision everywhere in the text of the Law what should be the right word with regard to the already existing dictionaries and spellings in our country. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. We have to have it, because that's how it's imported, and then, again, I say, in § 1 we'll make a change right away. We are voting on this proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote a new § 1 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In the name of the Law, the word "use" is replaced by "use." We vote. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The paragraphs that we have voted on up to now with numbers before 1 to 11 become respectively paragraphs 2 to 12 on the report. Before the name of the Section, a new § 13 with the following content: "Everywhere in the Law, the words "use" and "use" shall be replaced by the words "use" and "use" shall be replaced by the words "use" and "use" shall become § 13. We vote. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. It has now become clear that Mrs. Ahmedova and Emin's proposal has been accepted. We move on to the proposal of Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u113	Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) The amounts due for the properties under art. 37c, para. 3, p. 2 defined by the order under art. 37c, para. 4 for the 2014 and previous business years, are paid by the users of a bank account for foreign funds of the municipality. The deadline for the submission of the amounts for the 2014-2015 business year is until the submission of an application for support under art. 41 of the Agricultural Aid Act. (2) Since the entry into force of this Law: 1. the amounts under para. 1 shall be paid by the municipalities of the entitled persons under art. 37c, para. 3 within a 10-year period; 2. The refusals of the municipalities to pay on the basis of the 3-year term under art. 37c, para. 7 are considered debilitated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u114	Statements? I won't. We vote on § 14 with the agreement that, after the new § 13 paragraphs with the number on the report from 12 to 18 become 14 and 20, respectively. Final texts will properly rearrange the paragraphs so that we do not get confused in their reporting today. We are voting § 14 on the Commission report, which will undergo a new numbering. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u115	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Unfinished proceedings under art. 37f are completed in accordance with the order of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u116	Statements? I won't. We are voting on this paragraph on the report, which is § 15, with the agreement that it will be with a new numbering in the promulgation of the bill. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u117	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the case of the 2015 business year, the time limits referred to in Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be as follows: 37 and extended by four months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u118	Statements? I won't. We vote § 16, which will be § 18 in the Law. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u119	Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. Article 40a shall enter into force from 1 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u120	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Caymakanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose that the text of § 17 acquire its original version, as formulated by the importer, namely "Art. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 May 2015. I am sure that this proposal will be supported by you for the following reasons. I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the debates during the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, from which it became clear that in this case the extension of the deadline for the entry into force of the provisions of the new Article 40a by 1 October 2015 is primarily related to the situation of three or four Bulgarian companies public companies offering their shares on the regulated market and in particular on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. Obviously, since in this case we have to comply with the situation of these companies, there is a situation in which they are already in violation of the law since May of last year, which expressly prohibits the ownership of agricultural land by such companies whose shareholders or owners are established in jurisdiction and with a preferential tax regime or so-called offshore companies. Therefore, and in view of the fact that the period until 1 May gives enough time.. This is more than two months, these companies should be re-registered, I believe that § 17 should be repealed. Let us not forget, however, that since these companies are listed on the market, this shows that they have the administrative capacity to settle their situation within the two-month period. The extension of the period for the entry into force of the sanctum mechanism under art. 40a of this law by 1 October will be a manifestation by the National Assembly of unacceptable tolerance for the already illegal conduct of certain persons and companies, who have been failing to comply with the law for more than 9 months, only because there is no sacred regime so far. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u122	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In another place and on the same occasion we make the proposal that this deadline be 1 June. We withdraw this proposal and support the proposal of the importer 1 May, as well as the statement of our colleagues from the DPS. We will vote for this period, 1 May, as done by importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u124	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We did not hear reasons why the 1 May deadline is replaced by 1 October. No, we didn't hear motives! What is behind this proposal? Lobster interest? What? Why is this deadline changing? The interested parties had many months available, they had three more. In addition, the way in which you would vote for the absolutely precise justification presented by the people's representative Ventsislav Kaymakanov will show how sincere your positions are against the offshore women.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u126	They're not offshore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u127	It doesn't matter! It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u128	Well, how can there not be?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u129	Please don't replicate from place! I'll give you the floor from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u130	Take the floor and justify what interest is behind the change in the term of 1 May with 1 October! There's no such justification. There's silence. Where there's silence, there's behind-the-scenes interest. Your vote will be indicative! First of May, this is the time period by importer, between first and second readings someone's interests intervened and came to the editing of the text. This is deeply unacceptable, and I ask you to support the proposal to withdraw the text so as to support the proposal of the importer to be in compliance with the law in force 1 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u131	- What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u132	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I actually believe that this text does not need to be politicised. It is normal for BSP colleagues to say that 1 May is International Labor Day and therefore they are better suited for this period. But, of course, I say it in the circle of the joke. It is really not necessary to politicize something that is really reasonable. The deadline is extremely long until October. May 1st is a really reasonable period and we from the Patriotic Front will support this proposal. So there is no point in any unnecessary debate, unnecessary conversation and at the very least, looking for an answer to who.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u133	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u134	Dear President, just to clarify: this fine of 100 BGN is the issue of three or four Bulgarian enterprises with foreign participation but are listed on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. There's absolutely no lobbying in this. It is simply tolerance to Bulgarian companies so that they can complete their sales, which are within a few more months. It's about pink, two or three Bulgarian companies. The CIB colleagues were at the Commission meeting and asked for a slightly larger extension. So there is absolutely no drama in this term.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u135	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Caymakanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u136	Thank you, Madam President. It is really about two or three Bulgarian companies that are listed on the stock exchange, but it is about something more important that they since last year, after the adoption of the Law have not entered within the framework of the Law and it is for one reason only that the Law does not yet have sanctions. Therefore, I suggest that we ignore this, and in both months ahead, they have time to deal with it, because they themselves, in my opinion, have enough administrative capacity as such companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u137	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Karayancheva? You won't use it. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. There was a proposal in the Chamber, which is identical to the proposal of the importer, but different from the version of the Commission,............................................................................................... 40a shall enter into force on 1 May 2015. We are voting for this proposal made in plenary by Mr. Kaimakanov, which is identical with the proposal for an importer with the agreement that the Commission proposes otherwise. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 58, Against 11, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u138	Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure to re-vote Mr. Kaymakanov's proposal, that is, to support the text of the drafter. Otherwise, colleagues who would vote against or abstain will have to agree that they have unclean private interests behind their vote and this vote is the product of the first bright lobbying in the legislation within the framework of the Forty-third National Assembly. It makes no sense to tolerate a violation of the law in force, to continue with the practice that laws should not be respected just because they do not provide for tax regimes. The vote will show whether we will witness the first lobbying product within the framework of the Forty-third National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u139	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 125 MPs: for 67, against 8, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from DPS and BSP LB.]] The last paragraph, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u140	The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In the Law on Landing in Agriculture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. 1 the word "supplied" is replaced by "five" and "supplied" is replaced by "five" and "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" and "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" and "supplied" is replaced by "supplied."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u141	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 18 on the report of the committee, which becomes § 20, art. 4, para. 1 the word "supplied" is replaced by "five" is replaced by "supplied." They voted 114 MPs: 109, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. One explanation. Mrs. Ferryhan Ahmedova's proposal and MP Saliha Emin's proposal. 1, as regards the change in the name, it is voted with this addition that it became § 1. In order for there to be no ambiguity on the report it says that it is not supported, I am not putting it to a vote because we adopted the same as the version of § 1. With this at second reading, the bill has been voted on. [[Private applause.]] Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. The report for the second vote will present to us the President of the Commission Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u142	Madam President, first of all, I'm making a procedural proposal. I propose that they be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Krasimir Tsipov "Deputy Minister of the Interior," and Mrs. Kristina Lazarova "Chief Legal Consultant" in the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u143	We are voting on the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the guests to the hall. We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u144	The Law on the Ministry of the Interior is amended and supplemented by the Act on the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u145	We vote. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u146	Paragraph 1 shall propose an amendment by the importer in art. 2. There is a proposal from MP Miho Mihov, which the Commission does not support: The activities of the Ministry of Interior are based on the protection of the Constitution of the Republic of......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u147	No, start with: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u148	It's... it's changed like this: The activities of the Ministry of Interior are aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, combating crime, protecting national security and protecting public order. (2) The Ministry of Interior shall be a legal person of budget support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u149	Mr. Atanasov, excuse me, but this is the version of the importer for § 1, and the proposal of Mr. Mihov should be read unsupported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u150	That's what I wanted to read.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u151	You didn't start with all his editing, you only started with art. Two, that's why I called.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u152	Excuse me. Proposed by MP Miho Mihov: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) Art. 2 (1) The activities of the Ministry of Interior are based on the protection of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is aimed at guaranteeing citizens' rights and freedoms, neutralizing crime, maintaining public order and the legality of the national security system. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: In § 1, in art. 2, para. 1 after the word "security"...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u153	This is a supported proposal and it is not read.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u154	This is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 2. (1) The activities of the Ministry of Interior shall be aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, combating crime, protecting national security, protecting public order and fire safety and protecting the population. (2) The Ministry of Interior shall be a legal person of budget support.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u155	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Miho Mihov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 100 MPs: 27, against 42, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 1 in its version of the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: 71, against 8, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u156	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs under § 2, which the Commission supports. There is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2 to Inquiry." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: (b) Art. 2 (2) (b) 3, para. 1, t. 9 provided for in the bill to be issued. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the word "co-operation" is replaced by "interaction." 2. A t is created. 9. Nine. co-operation with the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u157	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u158	Thank you, Madam President. At least two are the considerations in the proposal made by us, namely § 2 to be rejected. This is, above all, the proposal and the record in which the protection of information and the sources for its acquisition is dropped. We believe that this is absolutely unacceptable. There is no way that an office such as the Ministry of Interior does not protect its sources of information and does not provide protection in this regard. This is the first recital. The second, the recording in which in t. 9 is spoken in the proposal for unconditional cooperation with the Commission on the files, so is more known in the Bulgarian society. Dear colleagues, we have come to absolute extremes. I appeal to Mr. Andreev for the favoration of this body, elected by the National Assembly. Indeed, it is more logical in the activities of the Ministry of Interior to provide for cooperation, interactions with other state authorities, which are both assumed by definition and for reasons that they have much in common in the activities of the Ministry of Interior. That is why we propose that § 2 be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! See, fellow Members, the removal of § 2, the deletion of the item. 6 is politically justified, which really achieves the following... we tell the still existing police collaborators and the possibly agreed futures that we will ensure that they do not see their name in the media tomorrow that they work for the police. That is why we have proposed the removal of § 2. It is good for everyone in the vote to know precisely that voting on such a paragraph poses a real danger, including the involvement of future police collaborators. It's a legitimate fear, and we shouldn't ignore it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Here you are, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are right, colleague Iankov, but you have failed that one of the functions of the Ministry of Interior is to guarantee national security how this guarantee will happen after the Ministry of Interior will reveal its collaborators and the people who worked precisely in the name of the state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u163	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have the analysis of the activities of the Ministry of Interior in 2013, which states that in the field of operational and search activities as of 31 December 2013, for 2014 we do not have the data, one of the Ministry of Interior employees has a total of 2.6 employees. Answer yourself, colleagues, with 2.6 collaborators how will they counter any crime, let alone the thefts where growth is reported?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u165	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This text does not mean working with informants at the Interior Ministry at all, I would like to dispel this speculation. We are also talking about a legal obligation of the Ministry of Interior among other state authorities to cooperate with the so-called................................................................................................ I think it's right, at least that's my opinion, that this should be declared a general situation in the Ministry of Interior Act. That's all we have in mind here, not anything else. This is not about certain operational services having to work with informants, it is only about the fact that the Ministry of Interior as a number of other state authorities should in principle cooperate with the Commission on the files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say one sentence. The dropping of t. 6 which concerns the protection of information and the source of its acquisition is quite logical, ladies and gentlemen, since this problem is governed by a special Law on the Protection of Classified Information, where security marks are arranged, the way it is protected, and the responsibility which is borne when this information is leaked, so it does not belong here. The collaborators are protected this way. There's a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u169	Thank you, General. Atanasov. - What's the line? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u170	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Atanasov, you are speaking and do not want to convince anyone about future leaks. You yourself have set an example in the last days, and I do not know if you have learned a lesson. To the Minister, however, you speak on behalf of an importer, but colleagues were very jealous to bear in mind that it was imported by a group of MPs, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, General. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand what you mean, Mr. Iankov. Once again, the protection of classified information, as are the assistants of the Ministry of Interior, is regulated in a special law. There are respectively arranged, of course, the duties of officials who deal with such information and are responsible for its expiry. Otherwise, who will learn what lessons we will count the chickens in spring. [[Relations between MP Yavor Haytov and rapporteur Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u173	Thank you, General. Atanasov. To speak, the public representative Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We have also made a proposal for a change in § 2. 9, para. Art. 1, art. 3 provided for in the bill, namely that it be dropped, for the simple reason that the text of the point is completely unnecessary. I am saying this from the point of view of the fact that there is a legal rule requiring the Ministry of Interior to comply with the legislation in force in the country regarding the activity of a committee, which, in our view, has no legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 14 against 57 abstentions 10. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u176	I'm asking for a re-vote. Me and my colleagues were unable to vote in spite of our desire, the system refused to register us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u177	Re-vote, please! They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 64, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 25, against 43, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 2. Vote 101 MPs: 77 against 13, abstention 11. The text of the Commission for the version of § 2 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u178	Paragraph 3. An amendment is proposed in art. 6. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. There is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Pol § 3 in art. 6 in para. 1, t. 9 to become c. 1 and the rest shall be renumbered in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The Ministry of Interior shall carry out the following main activities: 1. operational search; 2. security; 3. investigation of crimes; 4. provision of fire safety and fire protection, disasters and emergencies; 5. ensuring the access of citizens to emergency services through the National Emergency System with a single European number 112 (EN 112); 6. information; 7. control; 8. preventive; 9. administrative criminal and provision of administrative services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u179	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u180	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I'm paying attention! In the Commission during a discussion at second reading, I paid special attention and it was not corrected in the report itself the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs to read: 8 to become t. 1.................................................................................. It is a preventive activity to be recorded as the first point. Since we're going to fight to curb crime, let's take prevention out as the lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Do you have any lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u182	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! It is very clear that our proposal to be supported and to move is to be made because there is a typo............................................................................................... 9 a t. 8 and a forwarding activity to go first. However, this Bill was written by MPs and was not written by the Minister and the Ministry of Interior. This proposal corresponds to Section VIIa, which follows the first point in the activities of the Ministry of Interior, namely "Preventive activity." However, the activities that the Ministry of Interior must mainly carry out is to prevent crimes, namely prevention has always taken the lead. So our proposal should be adopted. I believe the Ministry of Interior should agree with this conclusion. Moreover, Members of Parliament from other parliamentary groups are confusing the text of this article, so our proposal must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, we will support the proposal of the MP Merdjanov. I think it's supported. Really, it's wonderful when a crime is solved. It's great when the means of the Code of Criminal Procedure prove it and stand up in court. But there is nothing better than the employees of the department fighting non-violence, non-crime, and this is one of the main functions of the Ministry. This is a text that I believe does not in any way give rise to any collisions. It is rather, I would say, informational and I see here colleagues who have worked for many years in the department... I see colleague Nunev, colleague Hristov, and I am convinced that they are of the same opinion, and I ask you to support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 36, against 58, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the wording of § 3 by importer in its version of the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 84 against 13, abstention 10. The text of the Commission for § 3 of the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u186	Article 4 is amended as follows: 7 of the current law. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 4" to be deleted. The Commission supports this proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: In § 4, Article 4 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u187	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In § 4, Art. 7, p. 13, provided for in the Bill, we propose to drop out, because we believe that the natural place of the Specialised Courier Service, which accepts, transfers and delivers correspondence containing classified information, is in the SANS, because the Agency is the authority carrying out direct control in relation to the functioning of the national system for the protection of classified information under the SANS Act and under the Classified Information Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 27, against 32, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to drop § 4 by importer. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against 1, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u190	Paragraph 5 proposes an amendment to art. 10 of the current law. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 5, which becomes § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 t. 9 Nine. Operating experiment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u191	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 5, which shall become § 4 in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 109 MPs: 92 against 13, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal for the revision of § 5, which becomes § 4 in the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u192	........................................................... Article 11 is Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 6" to be deleted. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u193	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer. They voted 111 MPs: 105, against 2, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u194	Paragraph 7 proposes an amendment to art. 17, para. 2 of the law in force. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 5: .................................................................................. In Article The assessment of the conformity of fire extinguishing products shall be carried out within 14 days of the date of initiation of the production.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u195	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 115 MPs: 34 against 65 abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 7, which shall become § 5, in its version of the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: 92 against 13, abstention 4. The Commission's amendment to § 7, which becomes § 5 of the report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u196	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs proposed to create § 7a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Chapter 2, Section Va "Protecting access of citizens to emergency services through the National Emergency System with EEN 112" shall be established with art. 17a: "Department Va" Providing citizens access to emergency services through the National Emergency System EEN 112 Art. 17a. (1) The activity of ensuring the access of citizens to emergency services through the National Emergency System with EEN 112 shall be carried out under this Law and the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112. (2) The activity under para. 1 shall be carried out by: 1. acceptance, automatic registration and processing of all emergency calls at 112; 2. ensuring continuous access to a connection line; 3. collecting information about the type, location, time and main data on the emergency; 4. analysis and transmission of processed information to emergency services within the meaning of the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, depending on the type of emergency; 5. receiving feedback from the relevant emergency services within the meaning of the National Emergency System Act with a single European 112.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u197	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 105 MPs: 89 against 15, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with the corresponding content of the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u198	Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: screated § 7a: 7a. A new article shall be created. 18a: Art. 18a. Information activities shall be based on the following principles: 1. the legality; 2. objectivity, completeness and timeliness; 3. accessibility under the law order; 4. organisational and economic appropriateness; 5. combination of centralism and decentralism in its storage and use; 6. information interaction and obligation to inform the structures of the Ministry of Interior according to their functions; 7. protection of information, sources of its acquisition, documents and other means of operation with them and information media; 8. the possibility of integration into and between information funds, taking into account the specifics of the activity; 9. protection of the personal data of citizens in their processing. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u199	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The proposal to create a new art. 18a is also related to the adopted § 2 in connection with the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior with the Commission for disclosure of documents for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, and in relation to what Mr. Atanasov said about limiting the possibility of leaking this information, according to the proposed introduction of art. 18a to protect this information, not to witness other cases that we have seen since last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u202	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, the creation of § 7a or new art. 18a is extremely important and given, as the colleague before me stated, the current situation, the information activity of the Ministry of Interior is extremely important and its qualification in the Law has an explicit text. I think everyone in this room should agree with this thesis. She's not random. And indeed, in recent days, this subject has gained serious relevance. Working with this information should not really be left behind. I also hope that the President of the Commission on Internal Affairs and Security will share these views and will support in this House the vote on such a text which really reveals serious problems in the functions of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u203	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, be more specific. It's about information from the Ministry of Interior that's been released. In the absence of such a member, what happens? Please specify.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u205	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u206	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, the line is resonant. Yes, I agree, but it is neither my job nor my duty to specify such data. This thing should rather be addressed to people who comment on such a topic. I hope that this problem will soon be discussed in the Commission, even in plenary. It is for this reason that I call on my fellow Members to support this point, because it is in this text of the newly proposed article that regulates this information activity of the Ministry of Interior. Personally, I am extremely worried about the data that was released by the prosecution, by the Minister of Interior and by the Prime Minister. I hope that colleagues have understood the importance of the problem and supported such a text, even if it is further developed into a future change in the Ministry of Interior Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u207	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 36, against 64, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u208	Paragraph 8 is proposed to amend in art. 25. There is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 8" to be deleted. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u209	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u210	Paragraph 9 s is proposed to amend in art. 26 of the Act in force. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The data referred to in paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be deleted if there is no longer a reason for their retention under the law or in the application of a judicial act or decision of the Commission for the protection of
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u211	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 9 by importer, which shall become § 7 by the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 13. The text of the Commission in accordance with its report on § 7 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u212	There was a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 9a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u213	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Article 28 concerns the provision of data by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. With the proposal made by colleagues in para. The second sentence is the so-called silent refusal. In other words, citizens are deprived of the opportunity to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code so-called silent refusal. The text is dismissed: The lack of charges in the terms provided for in the Law is also considered to be denied. You know that a common practice everywhere is that when we have a silent refusal, it can be appealed by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. Let us not deprive Bulgarian citizens of this opportunity to appeal the so-called silent refusal by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior for providing data. It is not justified, it is not motivated, nor was the proposal motivated in the Commission. I call on fellow Members present in this House to reject this proposal because it greatly undermines the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is imperative to say three sentences. It is absolutely correct to reject this text because administrative proceedings are governed by the Administrative Procedure Code. There it is clear what citizens do in every case when there is a silent refusal. So this text is redundant and it is therefore proposed to drop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u217	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You want a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Atanasov, colleagues! I would like to point out: I think that you have not understood what is being done with this text - it is precisely that opportunity to appeal the silent refusal. Once again, I will read what is dropping: The lack of notification in the terms provided for in the Law is considered to be rejected. That is, the lack of refusal can no longer be regarded as a silent refusal, that is, there is no way to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. For this reason, again, I call on my fellow Members not to be fooled by these explanations that, you see, in the Administrative Procedure Code, this order was foreseen. If this text is removed, it is indeed taken away from the possibility to mourn such refusal to give information by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u219	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines? I won't. Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u220	Taking advantage of the right to the backrest, I'm just wasting time because there's nothing else to say. It is clear what the general order is defined in the Administrative Procedure Code. I don't know. We're obviously reading different laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u221	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8 with its respective content. Vote 112 MPs: 83, against 25, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 8 with the content of its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u222	Paragraph 10... [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u224	I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u225	You didn't get a chance to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u226	Dear colleagues, I am asking for a re-voting procedure because I think that not everyone has been able to understand the meaning of this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u227	The question is whether or not they managed to vote, not whether they've noticed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u228	The fact that Mr. Atanasov did not respond to the legitimate remark of colleague Ivanov shows that maybe he himself did not understand what he was proposing. It is in this way that the opportunity is taken away...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u229	They already found out. Re-vote, please. [[National Representative Maya Manolova continues to speak with microphones off.]] We're overreacting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u230	These are new practices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u231	Vote 100 MPs: 66, against 26, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. Negative vote please, Mrs. Manolova. [[Heckling]] She wants a re-vote. She hasn't spoken. Don't call from the gym. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u232	Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Interior Act is special with regard to the AKK. Furthermore, the very fact that the text in force is being repealed has great significance in the interpretation of the provisions and the fall of the possibility of citizens appealing silent refusal is clear how it will be interpreted by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. I believe that this is an invasion of the ability of citizens to be informed, of the openness and transparency of the management and work of the services. The fact that this is being insisted and promoted by representatives of the Reformation bloc is more than a worrying contradiction between everything you have fought for and declared your cause. Didn't you want transparency and clarity, including from the authorities of the power offices, on issues affecting Bulgarian citizens? And I don't think that's a coincidence. This shows the way the changes are being made, which is without hearing a different opinion, to restrict citizens from the rights they had and from which they benefited, within the framework of the existing Ministry of Interior Act. I think this is a brutal amendment that affects the possibility and right of citizens to be informed about the actions of the various authorities of the Ministry of Interior. I have not heard a reasonable argument either from Mr. Atanasov or from any of the so-called Specialists of the ruling majority of the Internal Commission, which makes their position even more unworthy and to the detriment of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u233	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Anyone else with a negative vote? I won't. Please, General Atanasov, continue with the report. Next is § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u234	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Section VIIa "Preventive activity" is created in Chapter 2. 30a: Section VIIa. Preventive activity Art. 30a. (1) Preventive activity shall be the activity of preventing and crossing crimes and other offences, which shall be carried out through individual and general prevention. (2) The activity under para. 1 shall be carried out by: 1. the development and implementation of a complex of events to identify and eliminate the causes and conditions for committing crimes and other offences; 2. carrying out acts against persons for whom there is sufficient reason to assume that they will commit criminal or other unlawful acts which threaten public policy or the rights and freedoms of citizens; 3. development and implementation of activities for the establishment of persons planning or preparing crimes or other offences and taking measures to dissuade them; 4. carrying out events to stop the execution, prevent its criminal consequences and limit their size.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u235	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is no difference between the two proposals on the Commission proposal in points 2 and 3. I'm talking about prevention. In addition, I do not know how long it has been being persecuted or punished. I'm very interested. I am very interested in how the mental activity of any legal entity, of any individual can be established, with what methods, and how in practice will this lead to prevention? At all, I don't understand the methodology. These are some new achievements in the Ministry of Interior Act and this legal activity that is boiling on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u237	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u238	There is a legal definition of a thought, only there is something quite different here. I will speak briefly here about the presence of persons for whom the Ministry of Interior has information that they should be persons of operational interest. I can explain it to you for a long time. There's a development going on that's with the agency. Right? This is about something else, not whether there is a purpose or a thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u239	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u240	Dear fellow Member Petrov, there is a legal definition of....................................................................................................... Such a legal definition in Bulgarian law, and I do not know at all in any law or legal system, to exist. There is a great difference, my fellow Member, and no person can be prosecuted because of their thoughts, which must be highlighted in some way in order to produce a certain legal effect and persecution by the State for this thought. There's a big difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u241	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! [[The Presidents of the sitting shall be replaced.]] Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! I suggest that it be dropped because it will be a very bad label for the direction in which our legislation is moving. There must have been periods in the history of mankind in which the purpose was punished, but after the 19th century the design was punished only in his lensing, Mr. Petrov. Only with his lensing! And this is because it is objectively impossible to establish indications of thinking externally. They must be objectified and this gives subjective opportunity, including to authorities that are not in criminal proceedings, subjectively assess that someone is thinking about what you are. There must be a minimum lensing of the thought, and I suggest that without much discussion this will fall away. Even more so, in t. 2 are given all possible hypotheses of the objecting of the thought-making (including they allow (for persons with sufficient reason to assume) of the authority and to act. There is no need to bring such a thing into the world that is absurd today in the 21st century. I also wonder how it came to be and who who had the intention to pass in the National Assembly such a text and such a concept! Such a concept! So I'm asking you quietly and quietly to drop this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u243	What's it gonna be? The whole point?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u244	No, no! ♪ Thoughts ♪
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u245	Well, there's no point in what's left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u246	Well, that's fine: The establishment of crime-preparing or other criminal offences.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u247	Point 3 begins: "Development and implementation of activities for the establishment of persons...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u248	..Preparing crimes or other offences and taking measures...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u249	You're suggesting that only thoughts or thoughts be removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u250	Well, yeah: the expression "thinks" or "falls." And once again, I pay attention to reading the two points systematically. 2 is said: "Contact individuals who have sufficient reason to assume that they will commit criminal and other unlawful acts that threaten the public order and the rights of their citizens. In the third course the meaning is studied. These things are clear that without lensing, it is also about the different manifest forms of the act of execution. There's a preliminary part, but there's got to be a minimum lensing. Someone might think for a year he's gonna rob the Ottoman bank, but if he doesn't go some way to do something, to objectify, to negotiate. [[noise and lines]] Looking for keys to the bank, that's not criminally responsible. Another might think something about the neighbor's wife. [[Laughter and excitement.]] But this thought itself is neither grounds for criminal liability nor for taking such a type of action called harmlessly here. [[noise and laughter]] It's a pre-emptive activity. Let's not talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u251	- What's the line? I won't. The Minister wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will allow myself to fully support what Mr. Mikov has said and I would be grateful if the expression is intended or derived from the provision of art. 30a, para. 2, p. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u254	I don't agree with Mikov or the Minister. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please, Mr. Mikov, Criminal Law is being studied in the third course. This is a preventative activity. Do you make a difference? I'll tell you from history when the plot of a crime was punished. In royal Russia, they punished someone for being angry to commit a crime. This is the exact translation. But here we don't accept the norm in the Penal Code. Do you realize that? See what the text is: If the services receive information that someone is planning a crime, they must take steps to prevent it. What are we talking about here? Once again, we are talking about a chapter in the Law. The Ministry of Interior, the security services have their apparatus and mechanism for obtaining information about planned and prepared crimes and must take measures to prevent them. We're not gonna punish anyone for something he's been up to, because we don't accept a text with changes to the Penal Code. Think about what we're talking about. Maybe you came from a lecture on criminal law, and you're still there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u255	A line? Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Atanasov, even in royal Russia there should have been a visualization of what was thought, saying that there was anger. In order to get the information to the authorities what a person thinks, he has to objectify it, he has to buy a means, he has to go and negotiate with someone. If I only think about it, nor can it be criminally responsible, nor can it be a reason for such actions to be carried out, because thinking is a question of subsuprehensible individual. It's a process that develops in a person's head, and if it doesn't manifest itself, there's no way. And that's why it's called lensing. It's no coincidence. 2 is said: to assume that they will commit a criminal....................................................................................................... These give sufficient reason to the authority, assuming that he was not contemplating, but a reasonable assumption must be made. You can't just think about this preventative activity in itself without it being externally lensed. It is no coincidence in royal Russia that they say: anger, because with his anger he shows intent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u257	Text in the penal code...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u258	This isn't about intent. This is about intent. However, the intention cannot be a reason for taking any action, including the police authorities, including a harmlessly called "preventive'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u259	Second line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u260	Madam President, I would like to make a line so that I do not make a statement, because I wanted to do it a moment ago. Mr. Atanasov, yes, you have said an example of the composition of crime. The purpose is, of course, objectified by the relevant actions, the direct, possible intent. I don't want to get involved in criminal law theory. We're not talking about crime squads here. You know well that preparation is punished only in the cases envisaged by the Law, that is, not all preparatory actions are criminalized only where the Law has indicated. On the other hand, there's talk of design here. How would you objectify the design? Let's not use the term that concerns objectifying the mind, because we mix the design, if someone shares, says they're going to go and set something on fire. Of course, only this is not yet a crime, because it is not a preparation.. there are no items, has not obtained them, and other conditions to commit this crime. We talk if you just talk. See how the text ends in this preventative activity: to be dissuaded. Dissuade him, even if he makes preparations, which in certain cases is incriminated. We're talking about design. Let's leave him out of this. Let's leave him out of this. This is how the text ends: to be dissuaded. If I say ten times that I'm gonna do an arson or set a car on fire, and I'm just talking. [[bSP LB loud noise and lines]] , this is the preventive activity, and it is practiced in the Ministry of Interior. The person is called and is made a warning protocol. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u261	Third line, Mr. Mestan. I expect the speakers to answer the question: can we prepare a crime without it being designed? Because one concept, in my opinion, absorbs the other, and more general, is...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u262	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, the uninitiated design cannot be established.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u263	The Minister will explain it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u264	Yeah, yeah, you'll explain it, I guess. It seems to me that this is inexplicable to the extent that ever since Aristotle's conception, the unexacted design, the unspoken thought is God's territory, so says Aristotle. And that's to pursue the idea, if it's not at least spoken, we have it in a cult book by Orwell. I suggest we don't push it too hard. It is possible that this word will remain in the text, but in order not to create doubts that in the parliament of European Bulgaria, even as a preventive activity, we will aim at the purpose, in the territory of the thought of God, means, define what you are putting into the word. This minimum should be done if you keep the word to remain. Otherwise, the very statement of the design is already a lensing and should be subject to preventive action. If there is no aspect of the speech, at least.. whether in the form of anger, or a calm statement of the intention of a crime, there is no room for such a word. That is to say, I propose that the word be dropped, I make an alternative proposal, an additional effort to define a thought within the meaning of this Law. This would only justify the presence of this word in the body of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u265	A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u266	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to take this seriously! I see it's funny on the left, but I want to repeat two things and finally give you an example of what it means to have a planned crime and to prevent it from happening. I'll give you an example. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Mikov, you were in the Ministry of Interior for a year and a half, and you didn't seem to be interested in operating at all. The preparation cannot swallow the design and only with the preparation to remain the text. You know from criminal law that preparation is the collection of funds and removal of obstacles, that is, actual actions that must be carried out. [[BSP LB.]] To tell you what the meaning of the plan is, which has reached the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and they have taken action to prevent the crime being committed. Someone decided to commit a crime and shared it with a Homeland Security agent. That's what I mean. He told a security officer, they reported and took measures to prevent the crime. [[Heckling]] What does lensing mean? Yeah, he's up to it, and it's become known. Otherwise, no one can enter each other's skin without him sharing it. That's what we mean, he's up to. Again, I ask you, those who have basic knowledge of criminal law make a distinction between the composition of the Criminal Code and the proposed actions for preventive work of the Ministry of Interior. No one will be brought to trial for having thought about it. Please, this is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u267	Do other MPs wish to participate? [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Wasn't that about your line, Mr. Mikov? [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] It was about the line, Mr. Mikov. You have taken a line, and on the occasion of the line, there is no way for the person using the duplicate to address the three replicating colleagues without individualizing them individually. [[Reply.]] He's not affected, Mr. Mikov looks happy! Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u268	Madam President, honourable Members! I think, therefore, I exist. Perhaps in some individuals with mental illness, this process occurs differently, but overall thinking is transferring electrical signals from one part of the brain to another. I am really interested in how the authorities of the Ministry of Interior will identify exactly what signals are being transmitted to capture the mind, that is, the design for preparing to commit a crime. Clearly, there has to be some kind of lensing. In this room, thoughts attract all sorts of things. Do not open the work of the Minister, because with the adoption of this text he will become subject to the prevention of crime, because I am convinced that many colleagues here in their heads go through all sorts of thoughts. [[Radio.]] I really call on the importer at the very least to come to this stand and explain what it means to give a tract because Mr. Atanasov could not give it. If he can convince us, give us an accurate explanation of the word, if I do not call upon my colleagues, indeed this nonsense to drop out of the text, as was the proposal from the negotiators. The very concept you're preparing swallows into yourself any other action that precedes the committing of the crime. Let us not go into such nonsense that are being offered at the moment, and not create unnecessary work for the Minister of the Interior, all the more so that it is not clear to us exactly how this idea will be carried out by eavesdropping, with tracking, under the Law of the SRS? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] What is it? Thinking! How does he get the idea? Firstly, it is not right for us to have a dialogue in this House. Secondly, it is inexplicable to me how a thought can be taken out of a person's head except for him to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u269	- What's the line? [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]] Let's finish the lines. The line, Mr. Iankov. You're going to disprove Mr. Ivanov in his thesis? What do you disagree with his statement? I'm not sure you heard well because Mr. Mikov was distracting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u270	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Ivanov, this isn't about electrical signals in my brain. Here I read verbatim: "Development and implementation of activities for the establishment of persons who are planning or...................................................................................... In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is clearly Mr. Atanasov is most likely focusing on t. 3: "Execution of actions against persons for whom there is sufficient reason to assume........................... the hypothesis of Mr. Atanasov, Mr. Ivanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u271	Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u272	Colleague Ivanov, there really is no way to get out of a man's head his thought. You said, "Unless he says it." Yes, it can also be removed by his concluding actions by means of body movement, to write his own thought. I'm setting an example. If someone decides to sign somewhere, but only decides, without carrying out this act, how will they be persecuted? He will not be able to be prosecuted either by the Penal Code or preventively. [[a line from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov]] , colleague Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u273	Don't come in... You replicate Mr. Ivanov. To him!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u274	Yeah, apparently, a colleague, it's good to really explain to your colleagues on the right-hand side what objectification really means. Perhaps this should be interpreted because apparently the colleagues importing the bill cannot explain the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u275	Third line? You're entitled to the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u276	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, colleagues, I have really understood from the pre-speakers and replicators that what may have been meant by the words 'thinkers' in point. 2 "This thing refers to persons for whom there is sufficient reason to assume that they are committing criminal or other unlawful acts that threaten public order, citizens' rights and freedoms. Indeed, the subject becomes pointless for discussion. The only thing is that the Members of the National Assembly understand the meaning of the discussion that was held here, and the words are intended to fall out of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u277	Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u278	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal to end the debate, justifying it by the fact that for a long time these MPs, who are not penalists and do not practice this matter, have been oriented both within the meaning of the proposal of the importers and in the the thesis that the opponents present. I request an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u279	Voting regime for the procedural proposal made. They voted 123 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the proposal to the vote in art. 30a, para. 2, p. 3 to drop the text............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We are voting for the drop of the text. They voted 126 MPs: for 76, against 18, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u280	If you like a re-vote, because from the reactions in this House, I realized that colleagues really did not understand how to vote. Those who voted for the dropout had to vote for the dropout, and those who opposed the dropout had to vote against the dropout. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u281	There is no way for two different things to be voted on at the same time and for the same thing as against. There's a re-vote procedure. I put in a rewording and clearly state: the proposal for dropping out of the text "thinkers" or "thinkers." That's what we're voting on right now. Vote 131 MPs: 64, against 52, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 9 in the version of the Commission report. We vote § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u282	In groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u283	I've put out a vote, lately you asked... [[BSP LB lines]] . Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u284	We'll show it to the European ambassadors to see how we work...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u285	They voted 130 MPs: 83 against 35, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u286	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 11 is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u287	He doesn't support me, he writes to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u288	The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u289	Yeah. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject it. Please vote on the Commission proposal. They voted 129 MPs: 112 against 7, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u290	Paragraph 12? proposed an amendment in art. 33. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 33 is amended as follows: Art. 33. The Ministry of Interior shall be led by a minister who shall: 1. conduct the state policy on prevention, countering crime, protection of public order, protection of national security, protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, border control, regulation of migration processes, fire safety and protection of the population by developing policies, planning activities and controlling their implementation; 2. determine strategic priorities, programmes, objectives and tasks related to the activities of the Ministry of Interior and be responsible for their implementation; 3. represents the ministry; 4. implement international cooperation; 5. propose the draft budget of the Ministry of Interior and take into account its implementation; 6. responsible for the management and distribution of financial and material resources, including the property and property provided to the Ministry of Interior; 7. manage human resources and create, and shut down units outside those created by the Law; 8. coordinate the fight against offences affecting the financial interests of the European Union and participate in the coordination and management of European Union funds related to the activities of the Ministry of Interior; 9. issue regulations, regulations, instructions and orders; 10. receive information about the requested and used by the structures of the Ministry of Interior special intelligence means; 11. performs other functions defined by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u291	Statements? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u292	Thank you, Madam President. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of the text, namely the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and, having voted on the previous subparagraph and paragraph, I think that this is unnecessary to record. What protection of rights and freedoms are we talking about when one has no right to even think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u293	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u294	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! In the debates we should not miss Mr. Atanasov's proposal, it is about the Minister of Internal Affairs:..................................................................................... The current law clearly regulates the work of the professional and political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. With the offer... First, it's unclear. What is the meaning of the information on the requests and the uses? At what stage? When? At the start of technical events or then gets the analysis of the conducted SRS? So, honourable Members, I would like to draw your attention to this proposal, which we will be voting on shortly. Let us preserve and preserve the current practice with the current law that professional leadership has the opportunity to do its job without political pressure without mixing political leadership with the work of professional leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u295	A line? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u296	Dear Mr. Yankov, Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, we need to clarify something that is extremely important. There is no professional leadership and political leadership. The management of the Ministry of Interior is unified and it is in the face of the Minister, all others are employees in the political cabinet and employees in the Ministry. So the Minister bears all responsibility, he is responsible to all Bulgarian citizens for what is happening, respectively for what is not happening in the Ministry. I believe that the text proposed by the Commission is quite clear. The Minister bears his responsibility, he is the political person who should carry it. Please don't talk about two manuals in the Ministry, there is no dual power. The ministry is united and the head is one.. this is the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u297	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u298	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Mr. Haytov, you have just included the full responsibility of the Minister of Interior for everything that is happening in the Ministry of Interior. The political leadership, the political figure in the Ministry, is this figure responsible for policies, for the tasks placed on the professional staff, for the professional leadership. This is why there is also a function of the Secretary-General, which is why there are principal directors of the Directorates-General. So let's make a difference. If we are still betting on cases where someone will come out of the TV screen and talk about the SRS, then we must bear in mind that the information has also leaked from the Minister of Interior. Isn't that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u299	A statement? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to my making a concrete proposal, I would like to say throughout the text that these are the powers of the Minister. Dear colleagues on the left, according to art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, notice, from the Constitution, and not from any law "The Council of Ministers is the body responsible for ensuring public order and security in the country. From there are these powers, and the minister is that body that bears all the responsibility for security and public order in the country. From then on, the organization of his work is something that is written in the Law, in the regulations and so on. It cannot, since he bears all the responsibility under the Constitution for the protection of public order and security in the country, have no information about one of the methods that his subordinates use. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u301	- What's the line? First line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u302	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Atanasov, it seems that you are this defender of past procedures and way of work, in which we have a second instance sentence, precisely because the Minister of Interior, there is even more severe, allowed himself to fail to comply with a provision of the court. In this case, you propose that the Minister of Interior has information about the use of special intelligence means, and that you put the Minister of Interior to use this information not according to the legal norms, but that is your view. Most likely the majority will support it and the Minister will also bear this responsibility to have the information on the various developments about the use of special intelligence resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u303	Second line? A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u304	I'm sorry to have to comment here on Constitutional norms, but I guess that's what it takes. I will repeat that the whole responsibility for the protection of public order and security in the country is borne by the Council of Ministers. The authority responsible for this function is the Minister of Interior. Some actual division of professional, political and so on leadership is something temporary that will have it at one point, at another moment it will be gone. The management must be a single... cannot make the left hand one, the right hand another. That's unacceptable. Apart from that, I want to tell you something else. Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, the supreme authority of government in Bulgaria is the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall have the right to receive information on all events that take place in the State relating to the management. I ask: who will I ask for the misuse of the SRS if the Minister is not informed of this instrument, which is used by his subordinates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u305	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Mr. Bozhino had asked for the word before that and I'm looking to have a left to the right, so now we're going to hear him, and then you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u306	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! I take the floor to make a proposal for a very brief editorial amendment of point. 1 of art. 33. Ladies and gentlemen, during the previous confrontation, Bulgaria had a well-built civil protection system. Then she went to the Ministry of Disasters and Accidents, then the disasters and accidents went to the Ministry of Interior, then they went as depersonalized to the Fire Department. The last head of this system until recently was deputy head of the Fire Department, and now it's gone. This is why the Minister of Environment and Water deals with disasters, the Minister of Regional Development with landslides, and under other laws this has been replaced by the Ministry of Interior and the main coordinating function for the activities of local authorities and other competent authorities by law is given to the Minister of Interior. Therefore, in order to make up for to a very small extent this deficit of the organization of disaster and accident activity in Bulgaria, I propose that at this point the population should be recorded, including in the event of disasters and accidents, and that the development of policies, action plans and control of their implementation will continue. There is no one else in this organization of things in Bulgaria to be sole responsibility for the protection of the population, because there may not only be fires, do not give God, not to list them consequences for nuclear accidents, others and other things. So I suggest, Mr. President, that we write it down to make it clear: including in the event of disasters and accidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u307	You offer after the fire safety and the protection of the population...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u308	...including in the event of disasters and accidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u309	And what remains out of distress and distress? When to protect the population...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u310	Protect them from thieves, from criminals...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u311	They're in the upper hypothesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u312	Okay, but this totally vague text: who is currently dealing with the floods?! One of the ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u313	Okay, give me exactly your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u314	My suggestion is to add to that including disasters and accidents. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] There are many troubles, Mr. Tsvetanov, from which the people must be protected, but including that I say. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u315	- What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u316	Madam President, honourable Members! It's about t. 10 on the Commission's report in art. 33, i.e. the Minister to receive information about the requested and used by the structures of the Ministry of Interior special intelligence means. Honourable Members, a National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means was established in 2013. This bureau is entrusted with the obligation, in addition to checking the control of the authorisation, application, destruction of special intelligence means to provide, to submit a report to the National Assembly on the use, application and destruction of special intelligence means. This information is public to the public. In fact, this practice began in 2010 at the 40th National Assembly. I cannot imagine that we have burdened one body. He is doing his job, I will present the report, there will be public information about the public, and at the same time the Minister of Interior will not have the opportunity.. The Minister who is in charge of the Ministry, who has political responsibility for the activities of the Ministry to receive information, notice, about the requested and used by the Ministry of Interior special intelligence, but at the same time will bear the political responsibility. This is where the arguments were heard. However, he is the professional guide, it should be voted on. What if we don't vote? The Minister of Interior will stand and under parliamentary control will not be asked any questions: is there any special means of intelligence used against political persons, or is there none? Are they legal? Aren't they legal? One argument was given here, but the court has authorised it. Yes, but if the court has authorised, honourable Members, in terms of a text that does not foresee the use of special intelligence means, who will control this, who will exercise this control? Or if the court has authorized a text that has been cancelled, shall we say? Isn't it political responsibility that these special intelligence means will in some cases be implemented? Come on, they are implemented in another agency and in other cases the materials and information from these special intelligence means will be used, provided that the law clearly prohibits them from being applied under this text. Yes, life indicates that there are such examples. Who implements the administrative management of the structures and who is politically responsible? Of course, the minister, along with the professional leadership down the chain. [[Reply from rapporteur Atanas Atanasov.]] Yes, as suggested, and the inaction of these employees from professional management down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u317	We understand your point, Mr. Lazarov. You made it very clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u318	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. I propose that we vote on this text. There's nothing dangerous about him. It is about obtaining information, not about the results of the application of special intelligence means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u319	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Bojinov's proposal in art. 33 under § 10 of the report, e.g. 1 after the words "Fire safety and the protection of the population" add the text "including in the event of disasters and accidents." They voted 110 MPs: 41, against 46, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the full version of § 10 on the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: 87, Against 14, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u320	Paragraph 13 The amendment in art. 13 is proposed. 34. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - § 13 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 13, which becomes § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the abbreviation the Ministry of Interior is added the administrative secretary of the Ministry of Interior. 2. The creation of para. 4. The Political Office shall be established and operated under the Administration Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u321	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs for dropping § 13 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 112 MPs: 40 against 58 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 11 in the numbering and version of the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 78, against 26, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u322	There is a proposal received by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 13a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal received by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 34a "34c: Art. 34a. (1) The Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior shall be the senior civil servant of art. 142, para. 1, t. 2 in the Ministry of Interior. (2) A civil servant may be appointed as Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior who has served as Head of the Ministry of Interior for at least 5 years. (3) The Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior shall be appointed by the Minister of Interior through a selection based on professional qualities. Art. 34b. (1) The Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior shall assist the Minister of Interior in the performance of his functions by planning, organizing and controlling: 1. auxiliary activities in the Ministry of Interior; 2. the development and implementation of measures to prevent conflict of interests and conditions for corruption; 3. interaction with other state bodies, NGOs and trade unions. (2) The Administrative Secretary shall also carry out other functions assigned to him by order of the Minister of Interior. (3) In the performance of his duties, the Administrative Secretary shall issue orders. (4) For the performance of its functions, the Administrative Secretary shall be entitled to receive information from all bodies of the Ministry of Interior. Art. 34c. Legal relations with the Administrative Secretary shall be terminated by the Minister of Interior under the terms and conditions of the Civil Service Officer Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u323	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u324	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal of such a structure in the Ministry of Interior is at least inexplicable because, at this time, the powers specified in the text are implemented by the relevant Deputy Ministers and by the Secretary-General to whom the relevant Minister has delegated the power. I do not understand why this is being done, given that such a function has not existed in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. With us arises the resonant question is this not some kind of party secretary in the structures of the Ministry of Interior?! Really, explain to us why this thing is being done? That wasn't well-motivated enough by the importers, my request is to motivate him. I am proposing that this text be rejected from the proposals in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u325	What do you propose that the entire § 12 be dropped?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u326	The whole §12 drop out, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u327	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. Mr. Tzipov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u328	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. You know that in different administrations there is the figure of the Secretary-General. However, in these administrations it performs slightly different functions than those performed by the Secretary-General at the Ministry of Interior. The idea is to create such a figure of the administrative secretary in the Ministry of Interior, which has powers in terms of administration and to carry out some typical administrative activities. This proposal relates to further texts that will introduce a new category of employees in the Ministry of Interior, namely civil servants with status under the Civil Service Act. If that clarification is enough for you, I hope I've made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u329	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov to drop § 12 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 43, against 57, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote procedure! Didn't get anybody to vote, did he?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u331	You're doing this to waste time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u332	No, no. Some of our colleagues really didn't make it. Mr. President, I am doing a revoting procedure. Some of my fellow Members have failed to vote and others have not understood what is being voted on. The motion to dismiss this paragraph shall be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u333	We are revising the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov to drop § 12 on the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 50, against 60, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with the content of the paragraph. Vote 120 MPs: 76 against 40 abstentions 4. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with its respective content, according to its report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u334	Paragraph 14. An amendment is proposed in art. 36. There is a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov, which is supported by the Commission. There is an identical proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs proposing that § 14 be rejected. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 36 is amended as follows: Art. 36. (1) The Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior shall be the senior professional position in the ministry and shall be a civil servant under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1. (2) The Secretary-General shall: 1. plan, organize and control the main activities of the Ministry of Interior and be responsible for their implementation; 2. organize and control the interaction between the main structures of the Ministry of Interior in carrying out the main activities; 3. interact with other state bodies and organisations as well as with relevant structures with police powers of other countries and with international bodies and organisations in the implementation of the basic activities; 4. issue orders in connection with the execution of its powers. (3) The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior shall be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. (4) In the exercise of its powers, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior may be assisted by an alternate who is appointed by the Minister of Interior and performs functions assigned to him by order of the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Minister of Interior. In carrying out its functions, the Deputy Secretary-General shall issue orders. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior is a civil servant under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1. (5) The Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior may be appointed persons who meet the requirements for the admission of a public service under this law and have not less than 10 years of professional experience in the security services or in the public order services, of which at least half of them are in charge. (6) The powers of the Secretary-General shall be terminated: 1. at his request; 2. at the age of 60; 3. in the event of actual inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 4. in case of incompatibility with the requirements of para. 5; 5. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 6. in cases of serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties and in actions which undermine the prestige of the ministry; 7. in the event of death. (7) In the cases under para. 6 the powers of the Secretary-General shall be terminated in accordance with para. 3, until the appointment of a new Secretary-General, its powers shall be exercised by the Deputy Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u335	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we have taken the liberty of making a proposal under § 14 in art. 36, para. 5 to drop the word "senior" from the requirement to introduce an internship in a position of service as a professional experience in the system of the Ministry of Interior. The arguments for this are based on different meetings, which we initiated with professionals from the system, the structure of the Ministry of Interior and also with trade union organizations. They expressed skepticism regarding the general bill on the possibility of career development of employees in the Ministry of Interior. From this point of view, we propose to drop the word "Senior" and, with the mandatory indication of the requirement for 5 years and more, the Secretary General and the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior to have held a senior position, we believe that it is limited to the possibility of a significant part of the management staff in the professional structures of the Ministry of Interior to occupy these positions. We believe that the principle of applying motivational mechanisms for career development is being violated in the presence of an excellent assessment of professional activity. For this reason, I am grateful to the Commission that, during the debates, we voted for the proposal in question to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u337	And where did you see in the text the requirement for 5 years of leadership?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u338	That's the classic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u339	That's right. [[Reference between President Tsetska Tsacheva and the rapporteur Mr. Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u340	Any lines to Mr. Belemezov's statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u341	Madam President, I have a proposal for an amendment to para. 5 to make the text clearer. I read the last part of the subparagraph:...................................................................................................... I suggest that the text be done: of which at least 5 per position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u342	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u343	They may have 20 years of professional experience, and then it turns out that at least 10 years should be in charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u344	- What's the line? I won't. A statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u345	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! We are about to vote on one of the very important texts in the Law, which correct one of the major handicaps in this Law, adopted during the mandate of the Oresharski cabinet. It is expected to return to the President one power which was traditionally his, namely, by decree to appoint the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior. This, as you recall, on the left and with the help of the DPS was given as an opportunity to others in the current law. What is more interesting is that, as stated in the current law, once the Secretary-General is appointed, he will then offer the Minister the personnel appointments. That is, in one case, the first proposes the second assignment, and then the assignment returns the other's gesture. This is obviously a vicious circle, I wouldn't even call it § 22, but something much worse. I'm glad we have a chance to correct it in this case. I hope you'll support him. I will watch with great attention how my fellow Members will vote on the left. The other thing that I will watch with great attention how they will vote is for the higher requirements for professional internship and years of leadership within the security services, which is also being introduced. As you have heard, Mr. Atanasov's proposal for an editorial amendment for the person proposed as Secretary General requires a minimum of 5 years to have been in a position of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u346	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u347	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am proposing to the proposed text of para. 3 of art. 36: The Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior shall be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. I suggest the text be dropped. The appointment of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior with the participation of the President is a formula, such as a legal structure reflecting the time when the Secretary General, by presumption and by the provisions of the Act in force on the Ministry of Interior, had to have a military title of Major General. I think that the recording made in the Law does not reflect the modern realities and processes that have taken place in the security services the possibility for the high professional figure to be elected with the mandate of the executive as well as the executive power and the Council of Ministers are responsible for this. Before me the speakers also advocated this thesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u348	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. There is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs for dropping this paragraph by importer. The Commission does not support it. We are voting on the proposal of Members of Parliament, not supported by the Commission. Vote 137 MPs: 45, against 80, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Yankov's proposal from the version of § 13 on the Commission report para. Three down. Alinea 3 says: The Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior shall be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u349	If he fails, there will be no order for the appointment, there will be no Secretary-General. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u350	We vote on Mr. Yankov's proposal. Vote 141 MPs: 53, against 80, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Atanasov's proposal in para. 5 of art. 36, Paragraph 13 of the Commission, following the ten-year professional experience in the security services or public order services, of which at least 5 years per post. We are voting on this proposal. They voted 144 MPs: 137, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are now voting § 13 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 139 MPs: 132 against 3, abstention 4 The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u351	Paragraph 15 "Article 3' is created in Chapter 3. 36a. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u352	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer of § 15. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 127 MPs: 122, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u353	Paragraph 16... a proposal for amendment of art. 37. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in general. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The main structures of the Ministry of Interior are: 1. the main directorates; 2. the district directorates; 3. the directorates; 4. Specialized Counter-Terrorism Task Force; 5. the administrative directorates; 6. The Academy of the Ministry of Interior; 7. The Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior; 8. the research and applied institutes. (2) The main departments, the district departments, the Directorate of Migration, the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the Medical Institute are legal persons. 2. Allinea 5 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u354	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the version of § 16 by importer, which becomes § 14 in the report. We are voting § 14 of the Commission's report. Voted 116 MPs: 103, none against abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u355	Paragraph 17 is proposed to amend art. 38. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. Seventeen. Art. 38 is amended as follows: Art. 38. The main directorates of the Ministry of Interior are: 1. National Police Directorate General 2. The General Directorate of Organized Crime Combating; 3. Head of the Border Police Department; 4. Gendarmeriya General Directorate; 5. General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - § 17 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 15: "Article 38 shall be amended as follows: Art. 38. The main directorates of the Ministry of Interior are: 1. National Police Directorate General 2. The General Directorate of Organized Crime Combating; 3. Head of the Border Police Department; 4. General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u356	Mrs. Tsacheva, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u357	Before the speeches, you want a procedure? We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u358	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria we want 30 minutes rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u359	It's 2:55 a.m. 15 minutes off. We'll continue at 3:10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u360	The sitting continues with the debates on the reported § 17, which in the report of the committee becomes § 15. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u361	Thank you, Madam President. Our proposal in § 17, art. 38 treats the self-contribution of a self-specialized General Directorate of Gendarmerie and the motives in the most general lines are in the direction of the latest terrorist acts that overturned the entire international community and which took place more than a month ago in Paris. The main role of the possible establishment of the General Directorate of Zhendarmeria should be in the direction of increasing the capacity and efficiency of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against terrorism, ensuring strategic and particularly important sites and public order security in the conduct of events. Here rather, my fellow Members, I raise the question not whether the creation of a separate specialized Directorate-General will be voted on, but when? Our personal observations and conclusions that, according to the synergy we have with international services and the basis of their main focus and focus in recent years, to actively counter the terrorist acts that are happening in the world are the reason why we believe that the need for the establishment of the General Directorate of Gendarmerie will be if not at present, then in the next few months, a year, perhaps in the foreseeable agenda. We also believe that we could increase very much the expertise in such a Directorate General on prevention of non-terrorist acts and with an additional act, namely the inclusion of the Specialized Counter-terrorist Unit with the status of the Directorate General at the General Directorate of Gendarmerie, which, in our view, is appropriate and would lead to the effect of creating an integrated model to combat terror and significantly increase the expertise of anti-terrorist action units. I suppose some of you would ask the question: what would such a decision lead to? Until the creation of a new administration, respectively to increase the costs of the Ministry of Interior. I would like to say in addition that this is a matter of extreme importance which concerns Bulgaria's national security. In this context, we should not comment on whether the creation of a new administration is necessary and whether this would aggravate the budget of the Ministry. Rather, it aims to think and act preventatively with regard to the non-terrorist acts in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u362	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u363	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the unfamiliar with the theme, the former General Directorate for Organized Crime is being restored as part of the structure of the Ministry of Interior. I am questioning and I believe that there are no grounds for any analysis of the results achieved, either in the activities of the SANS in the last year............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If such an analysis were carried out, we would all be convinced of the bankruptcy of the argument for the natural environment of the Directorate-General for Law Enforcement to prove the unnatural environment more effective in the fight against organised crime when we compare the data from 2014 compared to 2012. I believe that it would be a mistake to destroy a working model in the fight against organised crime in the name of conjunctural considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u364	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? They don't want to take part in the debate. It's closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov is not in favour of the proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 18, against 43, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs for the removal of § 17 by importer "The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 26, against 70, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 17, which becomes § 15 on the Commission report. Vote 112 MPs: 96 against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u365	Paragraph 18 s is proposed to amend in art. 39. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 18 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 39 is amended as follows: Art. 39. (1) The Directorate-General of National Police (GDNP) shall be a national specialized structure for carrying out the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-9, except those related to organized criminal activity under para. 2. (2) The General Directorate of Organized Crime is a national specialized structure for the implementation of the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-9 in relation to organised criminal activity of local and transnational criminal structures related to: 1. the customs procedure, the monetary, tax and insurance system; 2. drugs, their analogues and precursors; 3. computer crimes or crimes committed in or through computer networks and systems; 4. intellectual property; 5. genuine or forged cash signs, payment instruments and official documents; 6. trafficking in human beings; 7. trafficking of cultural values; 8. firearms, explosive, chemical, biological and other general hazards and substances, as well as dual-use weapons, articles and technologies; 9. corruption in the authorities of the government; 10. terrorist activities, the use of common means and substances, the introduction of fear, hostage-taking, the abduction of persons in order to obtain material benefits and violent actions; 11. money laundering and gambling; 12. conclusion of unfavorable contracts, money laundering and absorption of EU funds through fraud. (3) The Directorate-General of Border Police shall be a national specialized structure for carrying out the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-9 in the border zone, in the areas of border crossing points, international airports and ports, in inland sea, territorial sea, adjacent zone, continental shelf, the Bulgarian part of the Danube River and other border rivers and ponds. (4) The Council of Ministers shall determine: 1. the depth of the boundary line and the boundary area; 2. opening and closing of border crossing points; 3. the organisation, activity and management of border crossing points, as well as the interaction between border control services in the Republic of Bulgaria. (5) The General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population is a national specialized structure of the Ministry of Interior for the implementation of the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 4, 6-9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u366	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs for dropping § 18 by importer. The Commission does not support it. They voted 118 MPs: 22, against 78, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 16 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs: 98 against 9, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u367	"Seriously, I'm Article 3 is replaced by the following: Thirty-nine. There is a proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov: In Paragraph 19 of Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 39a, para. 2, p. 3 to be canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: In § 19, Article 19 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation 1. In para. 1, ct. 10 the text is removed for the purpose of obtaining material benefits and forcible actions. 2. In para. 3 after the words "information-analytic', the words "operative-search' shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to reject § 19 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u368	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 19, because if this proposal is adopted, then the proposals of Mr. Haytov and Mr. Belemezov become pointless, as they partially propose the removal of individual texts by importer, while the Commission proposes the full rejection of this paragraph for the reason that it is reflected elsewhere. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 19 to be rejected. We are voting on this proposal from the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 114 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u369	.................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 39b. Here the case is similar to the previous text. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 20 is deleted. The Commission supports this proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it, The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: In Paragraph 20, Article 20 is replaced by the following: 39b, para. 2, p. 1 at the beginning of the text to add the word "guarded" and the word "state" to the word "border" and the text is amended as follows: "1." Security and surveillance of the state border, countering illegal migration and trafficking in human beings The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to reject § 20 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u370	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the full rejection of § 20 by importer. We vote on this proposal, which swallows into itself and Mr. Belemezov's proposal, after the text has been rejected, we cannot vote on editorial amendments on it. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u371	.................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 39c. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: I'm gonna need to get out of here right now. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to reject § 21 as it is reflected in § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u372	There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 21. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u373	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 21a: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 2 words for operational and search, security, control, investigation and administrative criminal activity and for the provision of administrative services shall be replaced by the words for carrying out the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-9. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u374	The proposal is supported, more came that you read it because it is supported. We are voting for the new § 17 on the Commission proposal, report the proposal to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u375	The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 2 words for operational and search, security, control, investigation and administrative criminal activity and for the provision of administrative services shall be replaced by the words for carrying out the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-9
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u376	There are no speeches. We are voting for the new § 17 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 92 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u377	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 21b. The Commission supports the proposal. The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs has been made. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 1 the words supposed by the Secretary-General shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u378	Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u379	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! On the proposal made by colleague Hristov in art. 43, which reads: The Regional Directorates are led by directors who are appointed by the Minister of Interior on a proposal from the Secretary-General, the words on a proposal from the Secretary-General are proposed to drop out. Colleagues, in previous paragraphs with art. 36 We have regulated that the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior is the senior professional position in the Ministry and we have replaced the responsibilities it will have. I do not understand why this proposal has been made and who will actually make proposals to the Interior Minister for the future directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior? Therefore, I suggest that we do not support the proposal so much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u380	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u381	The point of the proposal lies in this, ladies and gentlemen, that the competition beginning of the Ministry of Interior is being restored and the district directors will be appointed after a competition. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u382	There are no other speeches. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 18 to a new one in the version of the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u383	Vote 120 MPs: 103, against 16, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 has been adopted, together with the corresponding text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u384	Paragraph 22. There has been a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs to drop The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov in § 22, art. 43a, para. Five down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 3 is replaced by the following: 43a: Art. 43a. (1) The Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall be: 1. Directorate of Homeland Security. 2. Directorate of Migration. 3. Directorate of International Operational Cooperation 4. Directorate of the Special Courier Service 5. Directorate of the Bulgarian Identity Documents. 6. Directorate of the National System 112 7. Directorate of the International Projects. 8. Management of ownership and social activities 9. Directorate-General for the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Union (Afkos). (2) The Department of Homeland Security is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for operational, information-analytic and organizational activities in the prevention, prevention, crossing and detection of crimes committed by ministry officials. (3) "Migration" Directorate is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for regulating the migration processes and administrative control over the residence of foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, countering illegal migration into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and for the administrative service of the citizens of the European Union, the citizens of the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, the citizens of the Swiss Confederation, as well as the members of their families, under the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and the members of their families. (4) "International Operational Cooperation" Directorate is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for the organisation and coordination of the international exchange of operational information, for the coordination and methodological support of international operational interaction and for the implementation of extradition, transfer and transfer of persons. The International Operational Cooperation Directorate is the national contact point of the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol), of the European Police Office (Europolis), and of the Schengen Information System (SIS) and fulfills the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as the National Central Office of the Republic of Bulgaria as the National Office of the Criminal Police (Interpol), of the European Police Office (Europolis), of the European Police Office (Europolis) and of the Schengen Information System (SIS) and fulfills the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as the National Central Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. (5) The Department of Special Courier Service is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for the reception, storage, transport and delivery of correspondence and materials containing classified information. (6) The Department of Bulgarian Identity Documents is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for carrying out the activities related to the Bulgarian personal documents. (7) The "National 112" Directorate is a structure of the Ministry of Interior to provide continuous, rapid and free access to emergency services for emergency assistance. (8) The International Projects Directorate is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for the management of programmes and projects financed by EU funds and other international programmes and contracts. (9) The Department of Property Management and Social Activities is a structure of the Ministry of Interior for carrying out material and technical provision of the structures of the Ministry and social services of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. (10) The Department of Finance of the European Union (Afkos) is a structure of the Ministry of Interior, which carries out control, information and coordination activities under the protection of the financial interests of the European Union and performs the function of the Coordination Office for Anti-Fraud, which assists effective cooperation and exchange of information with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) under art. 3, p. 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 September 2013 on investigations carried out by the European Anti-Fraud Office and repealing Regulation (EC) No arena of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 (OJ L 248/1 of 18 September 2013.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u385	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 25, against 70, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 31, against 50, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's version of § 19 in accordance with its report. Vote 120 MPs: 104 against 9, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal for § 19 in accordance with its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u386	Under § 23, an amendment under Article 23 shall be proposed. 46. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - § 23 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 4 the words "International Projects" and "Property Management and Social Activities" shall be replaced by "Migration" Directorate, "International Projects" Directorate, "Property Management and Social Activities" and "Special Courier Service" Directorate. 2. In para. 5 the words "Security of the Ministry of Interior" shall be replaced by "the Homeland Security."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u387	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 22, against 64, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission concerning § 23 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall be numbered § 20. Vote 112 MPs: 96 against 8, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal for § 20 in accordance with its report has been adopted. Please come in for a procedure, General. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u388	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, in view of the large volume of the bill, I propose that we extend the working time until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u389	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by the President of the Internal Commission to extend the working time until 7 p.m. Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: 104 against 14, abstention 10. The proposal for extension of working hours until 7:00 is accepted. For the procedure Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u390	Mr. Chairman, I propose a roll call check on the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u391	This can happen before an upcoming vote, which is not available at the moment. General Atanasov, please continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u392	There has been a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs from § 23a to § 23c. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs from § 21 to § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 shall be added at the end by art. 142, para. 1, t. One and two. § 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 para. 1 is amended as (1) The police authorities shall be the authorities of the Directorate-General of the National Police, the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, the Directorate-General of Border Police and the Regional Directorates, the Directorate of Migration, the Directorate of Homeland Security, the Specialized Anti-terrorist Task Force and the Departments of Municipal Police, which shall directly carry out some of the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1 " 3, 7 and 8. " § 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1 words................................................................................. 4, 6 and 7 4, 7 and 8
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u393	Let's start with the Commission's proposal for § 21. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u394	Procedure for roll-call check of the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u395	Colleagues, we're starting the roll call. This time we'll start with the last letter in the alphabet. [[Radio, lines, applause]] Thanks for the applause! Please sit down and focus! Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Georgi Gadget - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Dear colleagues, General Atanasov, you are currently disturbing the order of the House! I ask you very much to sit down so that we do not resort to the penalties provided for in the Rules of Procedure! Mr. Tsonev, you too! Sit down, please. You're disturbing the court! Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Slavcho Penchev Binev - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Ralitsa Tdorova Angelova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Petar Stefanov Moskov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Musa Cemal Palev - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here It has been established from the roll call check, honourable Members, that there is a quorum and that the sitting continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u396	Continue with the report, Mr. Atanasov. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 21 and on the occasion of its vote, the name check has been requested and carried out. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs with numbers 21 to 23 included. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for these new three paragraphs. Vote 110 MPs: 88 against 13, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u397	Paragraph 24 proposes an amendment to art. 59. There is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs § 24 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24: .................................................................................. Article 59 is amended as follows: Art. 59. The Ministry of Interior's operational and search authorities are the state officials from the operational and search units of the Directorate General of the National Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u398	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 20, against 63, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission proposal, which supports the text of the importer for § 24. Vote 84 MPs: 70, against 10, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u399	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u400	We are voting § 25, supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 72 against 8, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u401	sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs is to drop § 26. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u402	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Merdjanov's proposal and a group that is not supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 19 against 61, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 26. Vote 94 MPs: 81 against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u403	Under § 27, there is an amendment to Article 27. 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u404	We vote § 27. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u405	Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 27a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28. ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the person concerned and the last sentence is added to the crime of general nature, for which it is attracted as a defendant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u406	Statements? I won't. We are voting on § 28 new, on the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u407	Paragraph 28 for amendment to art. 74, para. 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group in § 28 t. One down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u408	Statements? I won't. We vote on Mr. Merdjanov's proposal and group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 17 against 65, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of § 28 by importer, which becomes § 29. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u409	There is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 28a and § 28b. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 30 and 31 with the following content: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 1, t. 1 is finally added under the terms and conditions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. § 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words "helicopters" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 is added after the words................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u410	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on the new paragraphs 30 and 31 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 85 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u411	Paragraph 29 for amendment to art. 96 there is a proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 29. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 29, which becomes § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: Art. 92. (1) For security by police authorities of strategic sites of national security importance contracts may be concluded between the Ministry of Interior and the stakeholders. (2) The Ministry of Interior shall carry out security by police authorities, including with signalling equipment, of sites and activities listed in Annex No 1. ............................................... 2. Alinea 5 is canceled. 3. In para. 7 the words........................................................................................................... 4. In para. 8 the 5. In para. 9 words.................................................................................. 1-3 is replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u412	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 32 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 84 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u413	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph under art. 95a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 95a: Art. 95a. (1) The police authorities may, with the permission of the prosecutor, accommodate persons who lead a wandering life or engage in begging in homes for temporary accommodation of adults. (2) The period of stay in the temporary housing homes of adults shall be up to 30 days depending on the time necessary for their accommodation in hospitals, boarding schools, homes for old people and disabled persons or for placing them under detention. (3) Houses for temporary accommodation of adults may be established by the mayors of municipalities. (4) The organisation, functions and activities of the temporary housing homes of adults shall be governed by a regulation issued by the Minister of Interior in agreement with the Prosecutor General.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u414	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 33 in the version of the Commission report. In turn, 86 MPs voted: 78 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u415	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov for amendment in art. 102, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Yavor Haytov for amendment of art. 102, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for amendment in art. 102, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. The aircraft are basically a tactical vehicle designed to conduct aerial surveillance of extensive areas of the border area and the territorial sea, to carry out search and rescue actions, as well as to transport operational forces to secure border surveillance and to carry out other specific tasks. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6. 3. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: In order to carry out border control at the border line, temporary obstruction facilities may be built. (8) The facilities under para. 7 are not constructions within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the Area. The terms and conditions for the award and their construction shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u416	Statements? Mr. Belemezov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the reasons in our proposal are, above all, resulting from the creation of a legal opportunity for the construction of such a type of equipment along the border line, providing that this type of equipment and their creation do not meet the general conditions and requirements arising from the Law on the Construction of the Area, concerning the various construction sites. In addition, it can be said that it is envisaged that a sub-legal act lays down precisely relieved requirements that would enable such facilities to be built at a much faster time and thus be able to influence migration flows. Firstly, to restrict them and, secondly, to direct them through border crossing points in order to improve the overall process and protect these people in these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u418	Thank you. Mr. Atanasov, the Commission supports this proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u420	We are voting on § 34 with the content of the report. They voted 83 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Atanasov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u421	Art. 30, Art. 105 is canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 30 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u422	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 30. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 3, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to reject § 30 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u423	Paragraph 31...................................................................................... 106 is canceled. Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of Members of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 31 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u424	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to reject § 31 by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 31 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u425	Paragraph 32 proposes an amendment to the current Article. 141. There is a proposal by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which it becomes § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u426	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 13, against 58, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 32, which in the Commission report becomes § 35. Please vote § 35 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, against 5, abstention 4. The importer's proposal for § 32, which in the Commission report becomes § 35, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u427	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 32a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Article 142 is amended as follows: Art. 142. (1) The staff of the Ministry of Interior shall be: 1. civil servants suppose police authorities and bodies of fire safety and protection of the population; 2. civil servants; 3. persons working in the employment relationship. (2) The status of the civil servants under para. 1, t. 1 shall be governed by this law. (3) The status of the civil servants under para. 1, t. 2 shall be governed by the Law on the Civil Service. (4) The status of persons working under the employment relationship shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the Labour Code and by this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u428	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 36 with its respective content, according to the Commission report. In turn, 86 MPs voted: 78 against 7, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 36 and its corresponding content on its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u429	Paragraph 33 - Proposal for an amendment to art. 143, para. 2 of the current law. Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 33, which becomes § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. 2, 4 and 5 are canceled. 2. In para. 2 shall be added at the end for the employees under art. 142, para. 1 and issue an order for its application. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The positions and specific terms shall be defined in the classification under para. 2 which is promulgated in the Official Journal. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u430	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the wording in the version of the Commission for § 37, as per the report. Vote 82 MPs: 72 against 9, abstention 1. The text of the Commission for § 37 in accordance with its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u431	Paragraph 34 - Proposal for an amendment to art. 145. Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 34, which becomes § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 33, p. The following points are inserted
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u432	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission in its § 38 report. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 8, abstention 1. The text of the Commission, in accordance with its report on § 38, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u433	Paragraph 35...................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to delete § 35. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 35 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u434	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to reject § 35 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to dismiss § 35 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u435	Paragraph 36 proposes an amendment to Article 36. 151. Proposal by the National Representative Petar Slavov, which was adopted in principle by the Commission. Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: .................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, the words "the employees' shall be replaced by "the servants' and the second sentence shall be deleted. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The type of service card as well as the terms and conditions for issuing and using it shall be determined by the Minister of Interior's instructions. (3) The type of personal sign, as well as the terms and conditions of its use shall be determined by the instructions of the Minister of Interior. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The Minister of Interior shall determine by regulation the structures whose employees perform their official duties in uniform clothing, the type of uniform clothing, the order for the provision, wear and time limits for its use, as well as the other accessories on which symbols and distinguishing marks of the structures of the Ministry of Interior are placed and are related to the performance of the duties of the civil servants. 4. The creation of para. 5. When guarding mass events, the police authorities shall bear individual identification numbers in order determined by the instruction under para. 3.................................................................................. 5. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u436	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u437	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Here is the contradiction with the statement that the Minister of the Interior bears all the responsibility. With the proposal being made, there is an attempt to place personal responsibility on the regular police officers, and in fact, when it comes to security of mass events, the practice in the Ministry of Interior is to be held accountable on the vertical responsibility from the Minister of Interior to the regular police officer. Our proposal to drop the proposal is in line with the stated thesis that the Minister of Interior bears all responsibility, including for the actions of regular police officers in relation to the security of mass events. How a police officer will be identified during such events there is a order in the Ministry of Interior that can be preserved. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u438	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u439	Mr. Iankov, do you distinguish between political, administrative criminal and criminal liability?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u440	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u441	Administrative criminal and criminal responsibility is personal. The Minister cannot bear administrative criminal responsibility for the crimes of his subordinates, but may be politically responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u442	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u443	Your line was out of place, Mr. Atanasov. With what you've said, are you saying that the police officer who broke the law can't be identified right now? The text thus submitted attempts are made, including as a public view of the work of the authorities, to have a personalised responsibility. Certainly, however, the Minister of the Interior will bear all the responsibility from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u444	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. To speak, the public representative Petar Slavov. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor to note that apparently colleagues on the left, busy thinking about thoughts and passions or taking 15-minute breaks, then rushing to give press conferences on topics they consider very relevant, do not think about the essence of the proposed changes in this article. There, especially in al. 5, is in line with one of the main demands of civil society.. all people, gentlemen on the left, whom you did not treat as rallying and protesting people, but perhaps you regarded them as some kind of terrorists, and subsequently it turned out that perhaps as worms you also looked at during the Oresharski mandate, so that all these people wanted during protests when they were guarded by specialized forces of the Ministry of Interior, which are in disguise or protective clothing and their faces were not seen, to have a way of identifying these people subsequently if necessary. That's the point of al. 5 the way it's offered. By the way, it is also in line with the opinion of the police syndicate, which explicitly said that in principle supports it, but insists on the rotation of the numbers, i.e. to ensure the secret of the identity of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, unless it is revealed if necessary in the event of an infringement. This will be done in a specific order, which will be defined in the regulation or, as recorded, in an instruction of the Minister of Interior. And so on, and so forth, these are all good things that we offer here, and you reject. Yes, gentlemen on the left, there are indeed many cases, especially during the protest against the Oresharski cabinet, when the police powers of some officials were exceeded. They were asked to seek disciplinary responsibility, but none were sought and no sanctions followed. This has been established, including in judicial decisions, and in the reply of Mr. Minister to my question, which is available on the Parliament's page. On this I wanted to draw attention to populism really must have some boundaries. When something really good is offered, you could support it, not speculate or engage in giving press conferences or count on name control, but now, as I see it, most of you are gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u446	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. For a replica, the People's Representative Krasimir Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u447	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Slavov, don't make any suggestions! You cannot speak on behalf of civil society. You can speak on behalf of your sympathizers and voters. If you've had any signals, there's a line in which they come in. Do you think the Ministry of Interior is currently unable to identify the individual police officers who are guarding mass events? You're not familiar. You think that by putting an I.D. number on the regular cop, that would be the fastest way to start blaming the regular cop. Meet the method by which the tasks and orders are dropped. That's what I mean in my speech, when I say that responsibility lies on the vertical. Your statement is populist. As a matter of fact, speaking of past protests, think of the protests ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u448	Is that a threat?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u449	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? For the doppelganger, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u450	Mr. Yankov, gentlemen to the left! I have made it very clear that I am not speaking on behalf of the entire civil society, but rather speaking on behalf of the majority of the people you have called "worms" in a single development. On their behalf, I have a claim to speak. For other generalizations, I have no claim, so I don't realize them that way at all. Populist was your statement. I said specific examples. There are specific lawsuits in place. Including there is a detailed response from the Interior Minister, which is available on the site. There is quoted what actions were taken and carried out then and that there are virtually no criminally sanctioned persons. However, there was no excess of police powers in one or two cases. Again, I say to you: there have been not one and two lawsuits in this matter which have found that there has been an excess of police powers. If you wanted to be specific and unpopular, you should have named a particular case. I'm doing it right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u451	Which particular case exactly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u452	Tell me about the white bus.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u453	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u454	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Here we see the clear clash of two concepts. The correct concept is personal responsibility in which every police officer should know that he is personally responsible for his actions. You can see that this approach is not understood and is not supported by the BSP. They never wanted that. If we want to change Bulgaria, some of the reforms include the introduction of personal responsibility at each level, including for law enforcement, including for the regular police officer. He must know, he may have received any orders from his superiors, but he must know that on the street for every action he makes, he has an individual responsibility. With this number he can now be categorically identified and for that he will be personally responsible. Knowing Bulgarian legislation well, he will be aware of what he can do and what he cannot and should not do regardless of the orders he has received so far. By trying to reform Bulgaria, I am convinced that this is the right step, do not expect BSP to support such measures, they would never do so. They have always pictured the police as a repressive body, and the repressive authorities do not like personal responsibility. Don't look for support there. [[Single applause from BSP.]] What is important, however, is that the ruling majority is behind these measures. I am convinced that they are in the right direction of reforming Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u455	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u456	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, do not approach regular police officers as criminals who will break the law. [[(Voices "Eeeee! ……]] Be assured that there is a personal responsibility for each of the employees of the Ministry of Interior at the moment. Minister Vuchkov is here and will confirm it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u457	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u458	Quite briefly, colleagues, as I think the necessary answers have been given, but keep in mind that the personal number is also the protection of the officer, because for him it is clear and ultimately his actions can be identified in an absolutely indisputable way. It's also good for the police themselves, for their actions, for everything they do for their work. So I say again, it is clear who wants what in Bulgaria, but if we are going the right way, the path of reform, the path of personal responsibility at each level, we should not have any doubts about the adoption of these measures. During the protests against the Oresharski cabinet, when parliament was surrounded in a way that seemed quite unpleasant even to look at, if you wish, colleagues, there were unpleasant incidents that we have been sending signals about. And unfortunately these signals then, during the management of the BSP, they were not brought to the end. And no individuals were identified who were involved in these signals. So it is no accident that the Police Syndicate supports such a change, such a reform. The introduction of personal responsibility, again I tell you, colleagues, is a measure that you do not expect BSP to support anywhere. They do not support it with regard to the Court of Auditors, do not support it with regard to the police, they will not support it with the SEWRC, because when someone believes in collective irresponsibility, do not expect to change their mind. They'll never change that. So it's just a waste of time having this conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u459	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 79 MPs: 17 against 50, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's editorial text for § 39 on the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 6, abstention 3. The text of the Commission on its report on § 39, which was edited § 36 by importer, was adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u460	Paragraph 37 proposes an amendment to Article 37. 153 of the current law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u461	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 37, which shall, according to the Commission report, become § 40. Vote 87 MPs: 79, against 4, abstention 4. The importer's proposal for § 37, which, according to the Commission report, becomes § 40, has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u462	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of paragraphs 37a to 37d. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 41 - 44: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A public service contest in the Ministry of Interior shall not be held for persons who are civil servants in the security or public order services and other departments and institutions to which the provisions of this law on the public service apply if they comply with the requirements of the State Service in the Ministry of Interior. 2. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The term for holding the contest shall be determined by the order under para. 5 and may be extended once. § 42. Article 158 is amended as follows: Art. 158. Minister for the Interior: 1. appoint civil servants to senior management and management positions; 2. appoint civil servants to executive posts on initial appointment; 3. appoint as interns the winners of the competition for executive positions; 4. renames the civil servants of senior management and management positions; 5. renames civil servants from senior executive and executive positions in executive positions; 6. Renames the civil servants who won a contest from junior performers to executive positions. § 43. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 159, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." reassign civil servants to executive posts, other than those referred to in art. 158, p. 5 and 6; 2. A t is created. 4. "4." re-appointed civil servants of junior executive positions. § 44. Article 162 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u463	Statements? I won't. I put the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 41 to 44 inclusive. 90 MPs voted: 83, against 5, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 41 to 44 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u464	Paragraph 38 is an amendment to Article 38. 163. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 38, to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 163 is amended as follows: Art. 163. (1) The development in the professional career shall be carried out by passing into a higher position on the basis of a competition, and the conditions and arrangements of the professional career shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. (2) No competition shall be held for senior executive positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u465	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 14 against 62, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. And now the Commission's version of § 38 by importer, which becomes § 45 in the report of the same. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 82, against 5, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal for § 45, in accordance with its report, has been adopted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u466	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it because the so-called article. 163 actually accepts a competition for any promotion, career growth, but in para. 2 says: "For senior executive positions, there is no competition. That is to say, for the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police, there will be no competitions for the Director of the Directorate-General for Organized Crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u467	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other negative votes? I won't. Mr. Atanasov, please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u468	Mr. Chairman, you will forgive me one thing freely: with the vote on this text I would like to thank all my colleagues, my main election promise has been fulfilled, that we will return the competition start to the Ministry of Interior, which you on the left had removed. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u469	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u471	Mr. Chairman, I am using the possibility of a procedure in the manner of holding................................................................................................... First of all, I just allowed myself, without using the parliamentary tribune, to make a request to you because you called the National Representative Atanas Atanasov General. This isn't a barracks. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] Moreover, for the employees of the Ministry of Interior's system after their service was terminated as if they were not the same as with the military. At the moment you took the liberty of giving Mr. Atanasov the opportunity to make a suggestion. The competition beginning is also in the current Act in force in office, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you very much, from now on, don't let there be a violation of the regulations. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u472	Mr. Iankov, there are also general titles at the Military Medical Academy of Doctors of such rank, so in no case is the General's rank associated only with the barracks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u473	See if it works with the security services!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u474	We'll respect your offer. We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u475	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of paragraphs 38a to 38f. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new §§ 46-51: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 163a: Art. 163a. The admission to participate and the ranking in a competition for transition to a higher position may be appealed within 7 days before the Minister of Interior. The Minister of Interior shall pronounce within 14 days. The appeal does not stop the competition procedure. The decision on the appeal is not subject to judicial review. § 47. Article 164 is amended as follows: Art. 164. (1) The civil servant may be reassigned at his request to another not higher position. (2) Upon a proposal from the Head of State concerned, the civil servant may be reassigned with his consent to another position within the respective type of position. (3) The State official may be reassigned on a proposal from the Head of another position concerned within the respective type of position in the following cases: 1. identified unsatisfactory results in the work carried out on the basis of an assessment of the performance of the post; 2. reduced workability for the performance of the duties for health reasons established on the basis of a decision of the CEA at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior, where it is not grounds for termination of the service according to art. 226, para. 1, t. 3. (4) In the cases under para. 3, p. 1 where the civil servant holds the lowest position of the respective type of position, he shall be reappointed from the next lower position. (5) In the cases under para. 1 and 3 civil servants holding an executive or higher post may not be reappointed to junior executive posts. (6) The terms and procedure of reassignment shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. § 48. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) Art. 164a and Art. 164a 164b: Art. 164a. (1) Reassignment of a civil servant under the order of art. 164, para. 3, p. 1 shall be carried out where the assessment of the performance of the post is not grounds for termination of the service under art. 226, para. 1, t. 7 (b) and (c) 11. (2) The arrangements for the preparation of the assessment of the performance of the post shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. Art. 164b. The civil servants shall be reassigned under art. Art. 164, Art. 164a if they meet the requirements for taking up the job. § 49. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words according to the available resources of the Ministry's budget and the statement of expenditure shall be deleted. 2. In para. 4 the words the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Interior, shall be replaced by the Minister of Interior in the internal rules on salary under para. 3.................................................................................. § 50. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 1, t. 5 words are deleted on the basis of an assessment of the professional activity. § 51. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3 a sentence is created second: the initial and maximum rates of the salaries for the position of the employees shall be determined by the internal rules for the salary under art. 177, para. 3.................................................................................. 2. In para. A sentence second is created: "The terms and arrangements for the formation of the additional remuneration under art. 178, para. 1, t. 5 receiving persons working under the employment relationship shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 178, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') 3. In para. 7 after the word "serviceman', an employee is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u476	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 46 to 51 on the Commission report in the corresponding version of the texts. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u477	Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. 3 after the words the character is added to the specific organisation. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: For civil servants who perform their duties under specific circumstances and work organisation, free food shall be provided. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 181, para. 3 the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Ministry of Interior's staff shall be provided with food or its value. 2. In para. 3 sentence first the words the employees of the service shall be replaced by the servants of the service and shall be replaced by the members of the staff of the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u478	There are no speeches. First, I put to the vote Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 88 MPs: 15 against 40, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs for a change in art. 181, para. Three, sentence one. The Commission does not support it. Vote 89 MPs: 17 against 59 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. There is a supported proposal by Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. We are now voting § 52 in the version of the Commission on the report. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u479	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 53 and 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 181a: Art. 181a.(1) If official need be, the staff of the Ministry of Interior may be temporarily posted to carry out their duties in another locality. (2) The posting shall be carried out for no more than 30 calendar days on a continuous basis. Where the secondment is for a longer period, written consent of the staff shall be required. (3) For the time of secondment, employees shall be entitled to receive, in addition to their gross remuneration, also travel, daily and accommodation money under conditions, in order and in terms determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. (4) The amount of accommodation money per night shall be validated by an order of the Minister of Interior. § 54. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. The sum of the amounts, the terms and the arrangements for granting them shall be determined by order of the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u480	There are no speeches. We are voting on the new paragraphs 53 and 54 with the content of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u481	There is a proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov under art. 185, para. 1 which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs under art. 185, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs under the same article. 185, which is generally also supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185, para. 1 the words the employees of the institution shall be replaced by the servants of the institution and shall finally be added under conditions and by order laid down by order of the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u482	There are no speeches. [[Heckling]] You want the floor? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u483	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is a request that has been standing for a long time. I can say 20 years from time to time, with varying success, especially to employees working on a contract of employment. These are also those with the lowest remuneration that raise the question: why are civil servants, as has been so far, entitled to travel free of charge in urban transport, and those under contract of employment not? The internal organisation is not good, and I therefore really call for you to support the so proposed version by the Internal Commission, which enables not only civil servants, but also those with the lowest remuneration, such as those under contract, to travel free of charge in urban transport. Of course, we make a commitment to create an internal organization how to do that. This is fair to all employees of the interior ministry and, above all, to those with the lowest remuneration. Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u484	Your organization, Mr. Minister, is about providing funds for the cards. That's the organization. [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put to the vote § 55 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 90, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u485	A proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov to create a new paragraph. The proposal is:................................................................................ OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7 is The Commission does not support this proposal. Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph for amendment in art. 187. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs for amendment to art. 187: "1." Article 187, para. 5, t. 2 shall be with the following wording: "Reward for overtime for up to 80 hours at the reporting period for employees working in shifts'. 2. Article 187, para. 7 to acquire the following version: The overtime shall not exceed 320 hours per year, but for shift workers and 80 hours per period of service. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "dangerous, dangerous or specific working conditions' are replaced by "destroyed conditions and risks to life and health'. 2. In para. 3 the word "three months' is replaced by "one month'. 3. In para. 5. (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "time" shall be added up to 280 hours per year. (b) c. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "three-monthly'. 4. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The overtime shall not exceed 70 hours per three-month period and 280 hours per year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u486	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u487	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal is to increase the maximum number of overtime hours worked from 70 hours per reporting period to 80 hours. Of course, this is extremely insufficient given the huge number of hours of overtime that have been accumulated by police officers. All of you are familiar with the difficult situation at the border how many police officers have been posted there and those who have remained in the regions to compensate for their absence are doing overtime. There is a great deal of tension among the employees of the Ministry of Interior regarding unpaid overtime, so I propose that we all join together and support this proposal. It won't put the pressure off, but at least it'll soften him up a little. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u488	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. We vote first on Mr. Belemezov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. This is for the annulment of para. 7 in art. 187. They voted 87 MPs: 17 against 37, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 21, against 46, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for the new § 56. 90 MPs voted: 75, against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u489	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 189, para. 1 shall be created new points 5 and 6, renumbering the following: It's five o'clock. additional paid annual leave for blood donation the day for examination and donation and two days thereafter; 6. additional paid annual leave for the celebration of holidays of his children until the age of 18.. two working days per calendar year;..................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189, para. 3 the words of a permanent character shall be replaced by the words of art. 178, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 4 and for the scientific degree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u490	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 88 MPs: 17 against 55, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 57 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u491	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs of 58 to 61: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 190, para. 1 words as well as additional leave for two and more living children are deleted. § 59. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197, para. 1 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. a notice of dismissal; § 60. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 201, para. 1, t. 5 words brought or deleted. § 61. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 202 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "degradation in office for up to one year' shall be replaced by a notice of dismissal. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The disciplinary penalty shall be imposed for a period of up to one year's notice of dismissal. The penalty is in a warning that in the course of another disciplinary violation within the period of the penalty imposed, a disciplinary penalty will be imposed on the civil servant................................................................................................................... is imposed........................................................................................................................... 3. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u492	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 58 to 61 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 74 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u493	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being created...: §.... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203, para. 1 is created a new t. 13, renumbering the following: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 13. violation of the restriction of Art. 13. 187, para. 7 of senior officials in the Ministry of Interior; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203, para. 1, t. 11 the words "degradation in office for up to one year' shall be replaced by a notice of dismissal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u494	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 87 MPs: 17 against 53, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 62 in its version on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 78 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u495	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 63 "67: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "senior senior executives" and "senior experts" shall be deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "senior senior executives" and "senior experts" shall be deleted. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "senior executives" shall be deleted. § 64. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207, para. 1, t. 1 the words "senior senior executives" and "senior experts" shall be deleted. § 65. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 211 after the word "The Order" shall be added for temporary removal from office under art. 214, para. 1, t. 1 and para. Two and a half. § 66. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 214 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "supplier" shall be added by art. 207, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: When disciplinary proceedings under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 shall be terminated or, where no penalty is imposed on the employee, he shall be reimbursed to the post held and shall be paid the remuneration for the time of removal. § 67. Article 8 shall be inserted in Chapter 8. 215a: Art. 215a. The organisation of the activity of establishing disciplinary violations and imposing disciplinary penalties, collecting and processing of information on the state of discipline and disciplinary practice in the Ministry of Interior shall be governed by instructions of the Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u496	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs from § 63 to § 67, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 86 MPs: 76 against 6, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs of § 63 to § 67 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u497	Under § 39, by importer for amendments to art. 226 has a proposal from MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. There is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs - § 39 to be amended as follows: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 226, para. 1 at the end of the text of t. 1 is added for employees who have acquired pension rights under the terms of the Social Security Code. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 226, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier" and after the word "age" shall be added if the civil servant has not exercised his pension right. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Point 7 (b) is amended as follows: (b) obtaining the lowest overall assessment of the performance of the job; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 words s and 2s are deleted. 4. point 11 is amended as follows: "11." During the period of the test period.. due to failure to perform the duties after an assessment of the performance of the post;................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier" and after the word "supplier" shall be added if the civil servant has not exercised his right to a pension and after the word "supplier" shall be added either at the initiative of the appointing authority; 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 16 words.............................................................................. 164, para. 2, p. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 7. Point 17 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u498	Statements? Come in for a statement, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u499	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose in the new § 68, et cetera. 5 drop the expression or at the initiative of the assignment authority. I'll argue. In 2010, 256 people were released, 233 were released in 2011, 122 people were released in 2012, or 611 in total, 165 were released in 2013. Notice, in 2014, they became 1181 people! Let us make sure that fellow policemen who have obtained pension rights come out of the ranks of the Ministry of Interior. Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u500	How do you propose to look c. Five?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u501	Let the expression which I have read be removed from the expression "or at the initiative of the Board of Entrepreneurship."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u502	But before that, the expression reads: "The servant is added at the initiative of the office. So the expression after the word "worker" must also be dropped. This whole passage has to be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u503	To take up or at the initiative of the Board of Entrepreneurs. Drop the whole expression after the employee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u504	The expression after the word "the servant" is "the minister" is added. And that has to go away. Otherwise, it's pointless.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u506	The word wants Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u507	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the texts that face the greatest disapproval among some of the trade union organizations in the Ministry of Interior. This is about the possibility of the Minister of Interior of the Ministry of Interior to retire employees who have not reached 60 years of age, although they have acquired the right to a pension, i.e. a total of 27 years of insurance service, of which two thirds in the respective category. As the People's Representative Lyubomir Hristov mentioned earlier, under the old Ministry of Interior Act, which was repealed eight months ago, the minister had such a right. Again, I want to share the information that he mentioned earlier. For the first six months of last year, when there was such an opportunity, the Interior Minister then retired before the age of 60,1181 people. Back in time, not for six months, but for a one-year period, those retired by the minister varied between 122 and 256 employees throughout the year. Now, initially, the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act are again proposed to restore this power to the Minister. I am responsible for telling you that we do not need such power, that is, we do not want to take advantage of the right as an assignment body to retire employees of the Ministry of Interior before they are 60 years old. I think we can also reassure our social partners in the face of these six unions in the interior ministry. We would really appreciate it if you didn't restore the Minister's right to forcibly retire employees before the age of 60. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u508	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u509	Dear colleagues! I use the occasion to thank Mr. Minister personally on the occasion of his stated position. I also use the occasion to thank Mr. Hristov for suggesting that as importers they withdraw the point. We also had the opportunity to comment on the topic several times with the trade union organizations in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. This was one of their main concerns that caused them to experience relative discomfort in their work in the system. I am putting the issue politically, as the structure itself is partly to blame for the stress of their work, that is, the employees of the Ministry of Interior are not so worried about the environment surrounding them outside in the process of fulfilling their duties, but rather they are experiencing the stress of the system towards them. This is one of the points for which I believe that, with the drop of the text, we will have the opportunity to give additional arrangements for the motivation of the employees in the Ministry of Interior and to resume the motivational mechanisms that are part of the bill in question. I'll say more. With any such small text that solves their problems in general, we will have the opportunity of this Bill to give a very long-term horizon, not a horizon within four years, as is the mandate of any government. Once again, I thank the Minister and thank the importers for withdrawing the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u510	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Bellemezov? I won't. There's a word for it, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u511	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and we will not thank you, but we will express our satisfaction and recognition of the fact that the Minister changed his position in the Chamber. This once again says that certain processes are being realised, which are beginning to flourish in the Ministry of Interior, which is unacceptable. I just want to remind you that this change in the Law came after a long and persistent conversation with the trade unions just a long time ago. As a result, the bill in question was so highly contested. Thank you once again for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u512	And to figure out the plan. Isn't this where it's actually meant to be? Any lines to Mr. Merdjanov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u513	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I understand your concerns, but it is still good to stress that this is the right of your opportunity and of your judgment. Colleagues, however, I would like to point out to you that the Ministry of Interior is not a social service and the Ministry of Interior needs a rejuvenation of the staff, not a composition, slang, I would say, of pensioners. After all, we have to fight domestic crime, and domestic crime requires young, educated, energetic policemen. Personally, I do not accept the removal of this possibility in the text of the proposed article.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u514	- What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u515	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I believe that the colleague Lyubomir Hristov was very clear. According to the statistics we have, for 2010 The employees who have been fired under item 256 are the employees who have been fired under item 256. 13, in 2011 are 233, and in 2011 it was 233. The Commission therefore concludes that The concern and what really needs to be avoided is what we saw in the first half of 2014. Before the adoption of the Ministry of Interior Act, which we are currently changing, then the parliamentary majority of the BSP, the DPS and the attackers were extremely proponents that point. 13 has to be dropped. However, in the first half of 2014, when this legal standard was in place, they were able to release 1181 employees. Imagine what really happened in the period 2014. It is good to compromise and what we already have as a view from the Minister and as a consensus in this House, I believe that this will provide an additional guarantee for the non-use of this. 13 of the minister concerned in a way that clears accounts with certain employees who are actually at a good, mature age for work about 48 years of age. I think it is nice to adopt this amendment, and I hope that you will also support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u516	Second line? The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov. Short and its content to be yes. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u517	Don't ambition me, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I understand your concerns and they are really logical and motivated. However, it is good to stress again that the Minister has the right to take this opportunity. On the other hand, I agree with what you're saying there are people at the age of 48. I'm this age myself, and I feel like I'm 25 years old, so I can't help but agree with you. [[Radio.]] However, there are also people who are 60 years old and occupy places for young people. It really should be thought of, but basically you convinced me, to be honest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u518	Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u519	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to say two sentences. Since I also met several times with the representatives of the trade unions in the Ministry of Interior, at these meetings they said they had no concern that the specific Minister of Interior would abuse this power. Their concern in the particular situation is that one of the district directors could abuse it, as it is not only the authority of the interior minister but also the authority of the district directors in relation to a certain range of employees. That's what I wanted to share.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u520	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. There is a proposal from Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting on the unsupported proposal. 100 MPs voted: 20, against 63, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Hristov's proposal in § 68 on the Commission's report, including: 5 to change t. Art. 13, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Member States may decide to grant aid under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. One down. After the word "pensions" to put a point and to drop the text and after the word "serviceman" is added "or at the initiative of the employment authority." We are voting on Mr. Hristov's proposal for dropping the text I just reminded you of. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the final version of § 68 on the Commission report, in line with the editorial proposal we have just adopted by Mr. Hristov. They voted 101 MPs: for 96, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, take 10 minutes off to clarify the report. In relation to the proposal that has just been adopted, adjustments are required in subsequent texts. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u521	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The hearing is ongoing. Quaestors, invite your colleagues from the groups, from the towers, who's where they are. We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u522	Thank you, Madam President. There was a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group for the creation of paragraphs 39a to 39c. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 69 to 71. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228, para. 1 words................................................................................. 5, 7 and 15 5, 7, 13 and 15. § 70. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 234 is created. 10: The compensation under this Article shall be paid within three months of the date of termination of the service. § 71. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 239, para. 2 after the words. The following shall be added to the list of persons, entities and bodies referred to in
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u523	Statements? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u524	Thank you, Madam President. I propose the removal of § 69, as with the previous amendment of the text with which the text has been removed after the word of the servants is added, or at the initiative of the appointing authority, in practice. 13 must not appear and the text remains the same. So I propose that § 69 be dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u525	You also propose a separate vote on the new four paragraphs so that we can vote on this proposal of yours, and separately paragraphs 70 and 71?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u527	There's three of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u528	There's three of them, the first to drop out, the two to vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u529	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u530	I propose to create a new § 71 and the other paragraphs to be rearranged accordingly, as in § 71, in art. 243 the following amendments shall be made: 1, para. 3 is amended as follows: The Syndical Organizations of which state officials in the Ministry of Interior are members of the Ministry of Interior shall not be entitled to attend or join or join national trade unions outside the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u531	Give me the lyrics! In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 243 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The institutions in which state officials are members of the Ministry of Interior shall not be entitled to join or belong to national trade unions outside the Ministry of Interior. 2. Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u533	Any lines to your statement? I won't. Mr. Haytov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u534	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We also had the opportunity to discuss this text during the break with Mr. Hristov and I support it and ask colleagues to support it, because they are really creating paradoxes. There was a time when employees weren't allowed to join union organizations. There was a time that I remember when there was one such organization, but, agree, at the moment there are 6 syndicates in the Ministry, plus some of them being members of national organizations, it becomes really very colorful and very unnatural for the Ministry of Interior system. That is why my request is to support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u535	A line to Mr. Haytov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Atanasov's proposal for a split vote in paragraphs 69, 70 and 71. Paragraph 69 to be separate. Please vote on this procedural proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on Mr. Atanasov's proposal to drop § 69 on the Commission report, which does not really make sense since we have a voted decision to change the version of this. 13 in the previous paragraph. Please vote on Mr. Atanasov's proposal. They voted 94 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote paragraphs 70 and 71 on the report, which become respectively paragraphs 69 and 70. Vote 97 MPs: 87, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal for a new paragraph, which will become § 71 by our numbering, for a change in art. 243. This is Mr. Hristov's proposal, supported by Mr. Haytov's statement. We are voting a new § 71 for a change in art. 243, as reported by Mr. Hristov. Vote 96 MPs: 84, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u536	Paragraph 40 for amendment to art. There is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 72, with the following text: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 the words in which more than 5 per cent of the total state number of employees in the Ministry of Interior and have units built in more than one third of the structures of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u537	Something else you reported. Now we're at §40 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u538	Yeah, I read the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u539	Which text?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u540	The importer's, because this is the text...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u541	Yeah, okay. But there's another suggestion here. Mr. Christov...?! [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Hristov.]] No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u542	No, it's an importer. The 40th paragraph has a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u543	Thus, the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 40, which becomes § 72, and you recalled the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u544	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u545	Since I have some other editing, so far she's not supporting herself. Statements? Mr. Haytov will probably introduce us to her.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u546	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! My proposal is: § 40, in art. 248, to sound: more than 5 per cent of the total state number of employees in the Ministry of Interior. I believe that it is wrong to indicate which territorial structures on vertical or horizontal this membership should take place. It is not appropriate to mention in one such law the structures in which employees are to be members. It's enough that they're in the Ministry of Interior. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u547	You want the first part of the text which is by importer and is supported by the Commission to be deleted, to remain. Because the importer suggests... [[Reply by MP Yavor Haytov.]] Clearly, however, this is a text that is deleted and will remain in force exactly the opposite. See the version of § 40: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 words in which are more than 5 percent of the total number of employees in the Ministry of Interior. And by erasing this text, the other will remain the building blocks in more than one third of the structures of the Ministry of Interior. [[Reply by MP Yavor Haytov.]] Is this to be erased, or is it to stay?! [[Reply by MP Yavor Haytov.]] So we have to erase the other one. [[Replication by the MP Yavor Haytov: We delete: "Established units in more than one third of the structures of the Ministry of Interior."]] That's something other than what you said. You said to stay only the first. [[Replication by MP Yavor Haytov. Replices.]] Mr. Tzipov, bring the light into the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u548	Thank you, Madam President. We do not object as a leadership of the Ministry to remain the burden of more than five per cent of the total state number of employees in the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the editing should be in art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2, the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u549	Are there any other statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. There is a proposal made by Mr. Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs to drop the whole § 40 by importer. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 32, against 70, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Mr. Haytov's proposal for a change in the text of the importer, which is generally fully adopted by the Commission, in art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 words, which are deleted because such is the text of the importer, shall be: "They have units built in more than one third of the structures of the Ministry of Interior. From an argument of the contrary, if this is accepted, it will appear that the only condition that are now in the text of the Law is.. in which more than five percent of the total number of employees in the Ministry of Interior. Is it clear what we're voting on, Mr. Haytov? [[Reply by MP Yavor Haytov.]] And Mr. Tzipov supported it on behalf of the Ministry. [[Heckling]] I put to the vote Mr. Haytov's proposal in art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 The words:... have established units in more than one third of the structures of the Ministry of Interior..................................................................................................................... to............................................................................................................................ They voted 118 MPs: 52, against 1, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Is there going to be a re-election? No. We are voting § 40 by importer, as the Commission supports it. Vote 119 MPs: 96, against 20, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u550	Art. 41, para., para. 41, para., para. 249. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Yavor Haytov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 73: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 249. 9 is amended The conclusion of donations contracts in the Ministry of Interior shall be prohibited except in the execution of international contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country or where the donor is: 1. municipality; 2. a state structure which has functions in connection with the implementation of state power; 3. state-owned enterprise or commercial company with 100 per cent state participation in capital; 4. an international body or organisation, a foreign state body, the European Union, an authority or an institution of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u551	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov. Your offer is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u552	Thank you, Madam President. Only within one sentence. We believe that this proposal is extremely up-to-date, and thank you for your support. With the main motivation we foresee to make an exception to the prohibition introduced by the Law to receive donations to the Ministry of Interior, and it is envisaged to make exceptions not only from international organisations, but also from municipal or state organizations, structures. The main motive here is financial justification. As regards the planned budget and capital expenditure for 2015, which is within only 12 million. BGN, we believe that with such a correction and change we would change the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u553	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. You have well defended your proposal in the Commission. It was reproduced one to one in the report's version. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u554	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I think there is no argument involving a state undertaking or a commercial company with 100% State participation in capital. I'm making an offer in art. 249, para. 9, p. Three down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u555	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Iankov's proposal in the version of the Commission for § 79, art. 249, para. 9, p. Three down. It states that a state undertaking or a commercial company with a hundred state participations in the capital is entitled to a donation. They voted 113 MPs: 21, against 65, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 73 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 91, against 15, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u556	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 41a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 263, para. 1 the words supplied fire extinguishing products in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or made such products available on the market shall be replaced by the provision of fire extinguishing products on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and shall be replaced by the provision of fire extinguishing products on the market in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u557	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 74 on the report. They voted 106 MPs: 92 against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u558	Paragraph 42 art. 266. Proposal by the National Representative Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. Proposal by the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - § 42 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u559	Read Mr. Slavov's unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u560	Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. Alinea 4 is out. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: A fine of 100 BGN shall be imposed on the direct head of the Ministry of Interior, who allowed an officer of the Ministry of Interior to undertake the performance of his duties in the security of events under the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations, sports competitions and other mass events, without having placed his identification number in the appropriate place. for any violation. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u561	Write in the report that the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and the dropout group of § 42 is supported and the Commission proposes an amendment for § 42 by importer, which, by argument to the contrary, follows that Mr. Merdjanov's paragraph is not supported. Report the proposal to the Commission for § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u562	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 42, which becomes § 75: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 266, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 151, para. The following points are inserted after
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u563	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u564	Thank you, Madam President. To say very briefly that I am withdrawing the proposal that I have made between the two readings. My colleagues have convinced me that a penalty may be imposed in general order if such an infringement is committed, that there is no need to have an explicit provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u565	The proposal by importer for § 42 is for creation in art. 266 of paragraphs 4 and 5. Mr. Merdjanov and the group of MPs propose that this be dropped. In the final text, the Commission does not really support the creation of new paragraphs 4 and 5, but do something new. 1. It is correctly reflected that the proposal of colleagues from BSP LB is supported. We vote § 75 for changes in art. 266, para. 1 which is a new text in substance proposed by the Commission. We are voting § 75 on the Commission report in the content of the report. They voted 113 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u566	Paragraph 43 proposes amendments to Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) points 1, 7, 14 and 15 are repealed; (b) To be created t. 26a: 26a. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of the activities referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2. In § 2 is created t. 10: ..10. issue of classification protocols for products.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u567	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 76 in the version of the Commission on its report. They voted 111 MPs: 97, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u568	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 22a shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: "Sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Contracts concluded on the basis of art. Art. 77, Art. 91e of the repealed Act on the Ministry of Interior, retain their effect in accordance with the conditions laid down therein.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u569	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 77 on the Commission report. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u570	Proposal of the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ Annex 1 to art. 1 is hereby established. 92, para. 2: Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 List of sites and activities which the Ministry of Interior guards with police authorities, including alarm and security equipment 1. Iskar Reservoir; 2. Reservoir "Kardzhali"; 3. Studena Reservoir; 4. Nuclear Warehouse "New Khan"; 5. Railway hubs Sofia, Plovdiv, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Varna and Ruse; 6. Airports - Sofia, Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv; 7. The administrative building of the communications of the Bulgarian National Television Sofia, ul. "San Stefano" 29; 8. The National Radio Television Center, Sofia, Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose' 111; 9. Regional TV centers - Plovdiv and Varna; 10. Bulgarian National Radio; 11. The building of the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria "Sofia," Blvd. Al. Done at Brussels, 29 July 2015. 12. The building of the National Assembly, Sofia, pl. Knyaz Al. Battenberg. 13. The building of the National Assembly, Sofia, pl. The President of the Council of Ministers shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision and shall be responsible for the 14. The building of the Council of Ministers sofia, Blvd. Al. Done at Brussels, 1 July 2014. 15. The building of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Sofia, Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose " 49; 16. "Study Reactor" "IRT" 2000" at the Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy "BAS"; 17. Buildings or parts of buildings used by the Commission to disclose documents and to declare the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army; 18. National Museum of the National Museum of the Buzludzha; 19. National Museum of History "Sofia; 20. The National Museum Complex "Sofia"; 21. Buildings or parts of buildings used by the Bulgarian National Bank and its property and values; 22. Buildings or parts of buildings used by the monastery St. John of Rila or by the Bachkovs' world mansion "Assumption of the Mother of God."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u571	Statements? Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u572	Dear Madam President, I am not from Sofia, but I was impressed that an address was mentioned: Alexander Batenberg. As far as I know, this square is called Prince Alexander I. The mistake is not only factual, it is also historical, but I will not aggravate things. I think we need to correct this editorial error at the address.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u573	Pair up your statement with proof, not that I doubt what you claim, but so Adhok to accept, on a mighty trust!?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u574	As far as I know, it's flat. "Prince Alexander I."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u575	Under condition, you are expressing yourself as much as you know, and you must be firm in knowledge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u576	I'm positive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u577	That's more like it. Is it 12?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u578	The building of the National Assembly, Sofia, pl. Al. Battenberg One. [[Heckling]] The Office says it's called: Prince Alexander I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u579	"Prince Alexander I." [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u580	Now, that's some serious evidence! The MPs from the Chamber checked and specified the name. I put Mr. Mihov's proposal to the vote. 12, in § 78: The building of the National Assembly sofia, pl. Al. Battenberg 1 "Read: "Sofia, Pl. "Prince Alexander I." There's no objection to the other addresses. We vote! Vote 108 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We vote the entire §78. Vote 108 MPs: 102, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u581	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u582	We vote! Vote 112 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u583	There is a proposal from the people presented Ludmil Hristov and a group of MPs to create paragraphs 43c to 43o. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 79 to 90: ....... 79........................................................................... (1) The National Police Directorate-General established by this law shall be responsible for the assets, liabilities, rights, obligations and archive fund of the General Directorate of the Criminal Police and of the General Directorate of the Security Police. (2) The legal representation of pending disputes of the General Directorate of the Criminal Police and the General Directorate of the Security Police shall be carried out by the Director of the General Directorate of the National Police. § 80. With the entry into force of this Act, the service and employment services of civil servants and persons working in the labour force of the Directorate General of the Criminal Police and the Directorate-General of the Security Police shall be converted, respectively, into the service and service of civil servants and persons working in the labour force of the Directorate General of the National Police. § 81. (1) The Department of Migration shall be a liability of the assets, liabilities, archives, rights and obligations of the Directorate General of Border Police and related to the implementation until the entry into force of this Act of activities governing the migration processes and administrative control over the residence in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The legal representation of pending disputes of the Directorate-General for Border Police....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... § 82. With the entry into force of this Act, the service and employment services of civil servants and persons working in the labour force of the Directorate-General for Border Police, which carried out until its entry into force activities in regulating the migration processes and administrative control over the residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, are converted, respectively, into the service and employment services of civil servants and persons working in the labour force of the Directorate for Migration and the ODMI. § 83. With the entry into force of this Act, the service and employment services of civil servants and persons working in employment in the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior shall be converted, respectively, into the service and employment services of civil servants and employees working in the Directorate of Internal Security. § 84. (1) With the entry into force of this Act, the service of civil servants performing their duties as expert and senior experts shall be converted into the service of civil servants performing their duties in executive positions. (2) With the entry into force of this Act, the service of civil servants performing their duties as senior executives shall be converted into the service of civil servants performing their duties in managerial positions. § 85. The provisions of the Civil Service Act shall apply to civil servants under art. 142, para. 1, t. 2 whose service arose after 1 April 2015. § 86. For civil servants in the Ministry of Interior holding positions for civil servants under art. 142, para. 1, t. 2 whose service is not terminated as of 1 April 2015, the provisions of the legislation in force for civil servants under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 until their service is terminated. § 87. The civil servants under § 86 may be reassigned and temporarily reassigned to vacant posts for civil servants under Article 86. 142, para. 1, t. 2 under the terms and conditions of the Act on the Ministry of Interior. § 88. The civil servants under § 86 may be appointed to office as civil servants under Article 86. 142, para. 1, t. 1 under the terms and conditions of the Ministry of Interior Act if they meet the requirements for taking up the respective position. § 89. (1) Contracts concluded on the basis of the previous para. 2 of art. 92, shall remain in force until 1 January 2016. (2) The Bulgarian National Bank shall provide the financial resources necessary to provide security by police authorities, including with alarm and security equipment on the budget of the Ministry of Interior. § 90. (1) The regulations shall be issued within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (2) The regulations issued until the entry into force of this law shall apply until the relevant new acts are issued, in so far as they do not concern it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u584	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 79 to 90, including the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 93, against 2, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u585	Paragraph 44 is for amendment to the State Agency Act. There is a proposal from the MP Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs § 44 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: In § 44: 1. Point 7 (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 7 (1) of Directive 2014/59/EU shall apply. 2. Point 8 (b) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. There is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1 words "Range, grade or class" shall be dropped. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 91. .............................................................................. In the Law on State Agency "National Security" (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The State Agency of National Security shall carry out activities to protect national security against violations aimed at the national interests, independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria, the territorial integrity, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, the democratic functioning of the state and the civil institutions and the constitutional order established in the country relating to: 1. intelligence for the benefit of foreign forces; 2. danger to the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the state and the unity of the nation; 3. unconstitutional activity; 4. Corruption of persons holding senior government positions; 5. the application of force or use of common means for political purposes; 6. danger to the economic and financial security of the state; 7. danger to the environmental security of the state; 8. violation of the functioning of the National System for the Protection of Classified Information; 9. endangering the security of strategic objects and activities for the country; 10. destructive impact on communication and information systems; 11. international terrorism and extremism, as well as their financing; 12. international trade in dual-use weapons and articles or technology, manufacture, storage and distribution of general dangerous goods; 13. activities of groups and persons assisting foreign services, terrorist or extremist organisations; 14. migratory processes. (b) paragraph 6 is repealed. 2. Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. The Agency shall organise and conduct operational search, operational, information and analytical activities for the monitoring and control of persons, objects and activities under this law. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the words of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, shall be replaced by a decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. (b) in para. 2 the word "three' is replaced by "two'; (c) in para. 3 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." hold a 12-year legal experience or professional experience in the security services and public order, of which 5 years of a position of responsibility for the President and 10 years of service in the security services and public order, of which three years of a position of responsibility for the Vice-Presidents; (d) in para. 4 is created t. 7. "7." in the event of a serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the service obligations, as well as in actions affecting the prestige of the Agency; (e) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 4 The powers of the President shall be suspended by decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal of the Council of Ministers and of the Vice-President by decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Chair of the Agency. (f) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: In the event of a death or early termination of the President's authority, the Council of Ministers shall, within one month of the occurrence of the reason, propose to the President of the Republic by decree to appoint a new President who shall complete the term of office. (g) paragraph 7 is repealed; (h) paragraphs 8 and 9 are amended as follows: In the event of death or early termination of the powers of Vice-President, the Chair of the Agency shall, within one month, propose to the Council of Ministers a new Vice-President who shall complete the term of office. (9) Until the appointment of a new President, his functions shall be carried out by a Vice-President appointed by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Prime Minister. 4. Article 8a is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1, t. 5 after the word "supplier" is added "supplier" is reported. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." civil servants directly carrying out the activities under art. 4; (d) (bb) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." civil servants; (b) civil servants; (c) civil servants; (d) civil (c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3; (b) in para. 2 after the word "workers" shall be added by para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (c) a new para shall be created. 3: In the case of public servants under para 3 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Austria, the term of office of the Republic of Austria shall be understood to be the same as the term of office of the State of the Republic of Austria. 1, t. 2 shall be (d) The current para. 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 4, 5 and 6. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The State Employees are obliged to declare, under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, any private interest which they have in relation to the functions of the structure in which they work; (b) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 2 The relevant head of structure shall be notified in writing within the time limits and in accordance with the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. (c) the creation of para. 4 and 5. The State official is obliged to submit a declaration when acquiring another citizenship to the relevant head of the structure within 10 days of the acquisition. (5) The Administrative Secretary and the heads of the specialized directorates, the territorial directorates, the independent territorial departments shall submit declarations under para. 3 and 4 to the Chair of the Agency. 8. Article 54 is amended as follows: Art. 54. (1) The appointment of a public service in the Agency shall be preceded by a contest taking place under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the Chair of the Agency. (2) The contest for the admission of a public service shall be announced by order of the Chair of the Agency or of an official authorised by him. The time limit for holding the contest shall not be longer than three months. (3) Persons who have submitted the necessary documents and who are eligible for the contest shall be admitted to the competition. Lists of applicants admitted and not admitted shall be announced in a publicly available manner within 14 days of the final date for submission of documents. (4) Failure to participate in the contest may be appealed to the Chair of the Agency within 7 days of the date of the announcement of the list. The appeal does not stop the competition procedure. The President shall be given a decision within 14 days. The decision on the appeal shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review. (5) The final ranking may be appealed to the Chair of the Agency within three days from the date of its announcement. The decision on the appeal shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review. (6) Within three months of the completion of the competition procedure, the appointing authority shall issue an act appointing the qualified candidates. (7) In the case of a civil service, the person shall sign a declaration of the circumstances under art. 50, para. 1 and 3. ............................................... 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 54, para. The following points are inserted after 10. Article 63 is amended as follows: Art. 63. (1) Career development shall be carried out through a consistent transition to a higher position on the basis of a competition, and the conditions and arrangements for its conduct shall be governed by a regulation of the Chair of the Agency. (2) Training shall be carried out for the transition from the executive position to the management position and for the transition to the higher position of responsibility, which shall be completed with an examination. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123, para. 2 t. 3 is canceled. 12. In Art. 1624, the words "secret and investigate" shall be replaced by "secrets" and "secrets" shall be disclosed. 13. Article 124a is repealed. 14. Article 125a is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u586	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u587	Procedure before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u588	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u589	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, for the sake of directness, this long enough text has been read so far, which we are going to adopt, please vote on extending the time to vote on this paragraph. I see that there are speeches, at least to be clear about what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u590	I put the procedural proposal to the vote. It is only about § 91, colleagues who have just been reported by Mr. Atanasov. We vote. Vote 104 MPs: 97 against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ethem, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u591	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that, by discussing this paragraph, at least one part of it, it must be borne in mind that the crime investigation function of the State Agency is aimed at ensuring the full cycle of effective countering the attacks against national security, preventing, detecting and investigating the related crimes. The activities of the SANS investigation shall provide a better opportunity for interaction and coordination between the Agency's structural units acquiring information and the investigative bodies in its composition, which shall use this information to prove crimes committed under the Criminal Procedure Code. In this way, procedural efficiency and better coordination are achieved within the same office. In this regard, I propose within the framework of this paragraph to art. 4 to add para. 6 which reads: "State Agency "National Security" investigates crimes related to the activities of the already mentioned ) (a.k.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u592	The Commission's proposal is para. Six to be canceled. You're suggesting...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u593	New Al. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u594	And the current one to be canceled?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u596	Give the lyrics to the new one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u597	Add a new para. 6 which reads: "National Security Agency" is conducting an investigation of crimes related to the activities of Mr. Atanasov para. 1.................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-11.u598	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Debates closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Etem's proposal in art. 4 of the Law on State Agency "National Security." 6 to be amended as he proposed and recorded in the transcript. We are voting for the amendment of para. 6 in art. 4 of the DANS Act. They voted 107 MPs: 19 against 78, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Merdjanov and Company's proposal to drop § 44. We are voting on this proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 22, against 79, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov's proposal under the heading. 1 is supported by the Commission. I put to the vote its proposal in the part which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 14 against 54, abstentioned 41. The offer is not accepted. The last vote for this evening has also come to a vote on § 91 in its version on the Commission's report. Vote 108 MPs: 90 against 16, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a starting time of 9:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
