ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u2	DECLARATION by the political party GERB Parliamentary Group Madam President, honourable Members! It was 142 years after the hanging of the Apostle of Bulgarian Freedom Vassil Ivanov Kunchev. Legend has it that Deacon of the Sopot Monastery St. Spass, ordained by the name Ignatius, receives his pseudonym Levski in Belgrade during his participation in the First Bulgarian Legia of Georgi Sava Rakovski. They called him Levski because of his strength, bravery, and skill he demonstrated in the preparation for the battles. For Bulgaria, however, Levski is much more than a benchmark for physical strength. With his strategic views on how to fight for liberation Vasil Kunchev becomes the ideologist of the national liberation movement. It is precisely the path it has set out to bring about the conquest of the freedom and independence of Bulgaria. Levski, however, is not only a strategist. In less than a decade, he has managed to build a powerful, working revolutionary structure that continues to operate even after his death. In the dark times of fear and lightlessness, at the cost of many deprivations and complete dedication the Apostle of Freedom manages to attract thousands of young Bulgarian men and women to the common folk work. At a later stage these are the people who organize and hold the April Uprising, participate in the Bulgarian militia and ultimately win our freedom. They are the core of the Bulgarian post-liberation elite, which laid the foundations of the Third Bulgarian State. All this organizational activity Levski carries out with strict and regular accountability and responsibility to public funds, an example that is particularly relevant in our time. A particularly significant quality of Vasil Levski is his state-of-the-art thinking. Though he fails to live up to his freedom, he sees his homeland free and ahead of centuries of his time. First of all, Deacon realizes that liberation must be the work of the Bulgarians themselves, because the person who freed us will also enslave us. The Apostle's concept of the rule of law in the Bulgarian State is also impressive: All the peoples in it will live under some pure and holy laws, as it is given by God to live both for the Turk and for the Jew, and so on, for all the same will be, only if they recognize the laws equal to the Bulgarian. That's how it will be in Bulgaria! Today, nearly a century and a half later, there are still our compatriots who are questioning this basic state principle and seeking personal benefits and political dividends. Vasil Levski, however, goes even further, seeing Bulgaria as an equal part of united Europe: Our precious Fatherland will need decent people to guide it along the path of prosperity so that we can be equal to other European peoples. It is up to us to be equal with the other European peoples. And if there is something particularly valuable in Vasil Levski's personality that sets an example to us today for a little more humility, it is that despite the harsh reality in which he lives, Deacon manages to remain human in the first place. Driven by the desire for freedom and equality, the apostle manifests principle in his actions and decisions, not even hating his murderers. The only ones he truly despises are the traitors of the Fatherland. Today, 142 years after the hanging of Vasil Levski, we from the political party group GERB are strongly against all attempts to rewrite the textbooks and reverse history. We believe that our children, as well as future generations, have the right to know the truth about Bulgaria's past as it is, and it is our fundamental duty to keep it for them. We do not accept the attempts of various political forces and non-governmental organisations to lobby for the re-false of historical facts for political correctness or electoral and material dividends. And let us perhaps remember the most important message of the Apostle of Liberty Vassil Levski: It turns us around and we turn it around! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Colleagues, we're moving on to our weekly program. Mr. Simeonov's procedure. Let me remind you that on the day yesterday, we came to a debate on the Draft Law on ratification of the two treaties and the Debt-taking Act. Today we must continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 52, para. 2, p. 4 adjournment of the debates. I believe that making a decision for each of us is an extremely responsible task, and we can make a decision, since we are very well acquainted with the reasons for asking for this debt and imposing it on our country. It was not necessary to clarify the grounds, so I suggest that it should be stopped with the initial reactions, with the initial interpretation. [[BSP LB]] and to postpone the debate until we have the opportunity to obtain the views of both the importer and specialists and to build a responsible position each of us. That's our offer. [[Noise and lines. National Representative Desislav Chukolov goes to the stands and passes to the National Representative Valeri Simeonov poster.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u5	Mr. Chukolov, I'm taking you out of court! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Chukolov, I'm giving you official attention! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Chukolov, for disturbing the peace of the room, I will remove you from this meeting. [[Noise and lines. People's representative Desislav Chukolov insists on handing the poster to the MP Valeri Simeonov, but the Quaestors intervene and he leaves the Chamber. Awesome.]] A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u6	My fellow Members, I would like to say the opposite and ask you to vote to continue the 16 billion debate. BGN, as the Bulgarian people are waiting to see and hear our decision. What is happening at the moment is an ugly Alush-Verishe purchase and sale of entire parliamentary groups. And you don't need a whole week to be bought or sold. And when the finance minister ignored you and gave you 15 minutes yesterday, Mr. Simeonov, as you said, he gave you 16 billion. lv. one-minute debt per billion [[GERB loud noise]] Then you must stand against him and vote against him! Because these debts will pay both your children and my children and the children of all of you. You don't have to support him at all in this thing. My fellow Members, I propose that we continue today's debate, vote against it, and if we have to go to elections, we will go to elections! It's better than debt to our children! [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u7	I put to the vote Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal on the grounds of art. 52, para. 2, p. 4 "Stay away from the debates on the subject. 5 of the weekly programme "Project for ratification of the two contracts and the act of commitment. Voting mode. Vote 187 MPs: 118, against 68, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[(The MPs of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka are chanting: Resignation!]] Colleagues, write your resignations in writing and deposit them in the Chamber of National Assembly! [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]] It's a re-vote. [[The National Representative Yordan Tsonev is heading for the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u8	It's a circus! It's a circus!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u9	Are you a spokesperson for the left, Mr. Tsonev? Because they're suffocating you with what to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u10	In what capacity? I don't know how to answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u11	You have the opportunity to answer me as you wish, the same thing they call you from place to place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u12	I don't know, Mrs. Tsacheva, when have I given you reason to believe that I am a spokesperson to anyone but my own party and my own conscience! But if you ask me, I'll tell you I'm not a spokesperson for the left. Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a re-voting procedure. In addition to the motive that there are colleagues who have failed to vote, I will also be motivated by the opposite of what Mr Simeonov said. Mr. Simeonov, there's been plenty of time for everyone to meet you. We from the DPS Parliamentary Group met. For 15 minutes, the Minister of Finance hasn't given us a minute. Nevertheless, we are well aware of all the elements of this treaty. We have an opinion! Mr. Simeonov, a politician should also read, not only talk nonsense! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u13	Revoting mode! Vote 176 MPs: 115, against 59, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE MOVEMENT AND ASSESSMENT OF ENERGY IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. He came up with a draft decision with motive for it. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision will be proposed by Mr. Tsochev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, we are submitting a draft decision to establish a temporary committee of inquiry to examine and assess the state of energy and the reasons which led to the imbalance in it on 31 January 2015. Before I read the decision, I will read the reasons to the Draft Decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee for Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015: It is one of the most important sectors in the country's economy and an element of national security. In recent years, it has been functioning, as has the whole economy under conditions of crisis. However, the difficult situation in which it is located is more associated with a lack of transparency in decision-making, maladministration of state-owned companies and non-exercised financial control, in many cases with the supremacy of private and corporate interests over state policy and professional logic. In the Bulgarian society, including among the political forces, a paradoxical public consensus is formed. Everyone takes into account the situation in the energy sector as extremely difficult, severe, requiring urgent and adequate actions to stabilise, restart, resuscitate, yet there are no radical and decisive actions to reform the sector and rescue state energy companies. It seems that there is no desire for change, despite the declarations of readiness to adopt an updated strategy for the development of Bulgarian energy in the medium and long term and legislative measures for the full implementation of European legal standards and those taking into account national and regional interests. We need a real, stable consensus on the main directions of energy policy and the National Strategy with priorities as a basis for decision-making and for the implementation of the necessary healing measures. On the other hand, the basis for all programming and legislative initiatives must be the clear assessment and analysis of the policy that has been carried out so far, the results achieved and the specific problems in the energy sector. The entry of an American expert as an advisor in the Bulgarian Energy Ministry, the participation of foreign representatives in a working group on energy security are additional circumstances which also determine the need to establish and announce the current state of the sector and the major energy projects in which Bulgaria participates. A full review and evaluation of the reasons for the non-realization of some major projects will enable conclusions to be drawn on how costs and benefits have been analysed and how transparent and motivated the solutions for project selection and investment have been. Before validating plans for the future, there must be an answer to the questions as to what the state of Bulgarian energy is, what are the reasons for this situation and whether the management of the sector as a whole and the energy system of the country was adequate. These are issues of high public interest that motivate us to propose the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to check and assess the state of energy and the causes of the imbalance in it as of 31 January 2015 In this regard, Mr. Chairman, we are importing and Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. 2. The Commission shall be composed of 8 (eight) Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle by one of each parliamentary group. 3. I will read you the proposals of the different parliamentary groups. 4. The temporary committee of inquiry shall be elected for a period of two months. It is operationally agreed with all parliamentary groups, with the exception of "Attack" who said that their representative would be proposed in the Chamber. I am reading you the proposal for the composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Valentin Nikolov from the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Tasco Ermenkov from the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB, Ramadan Atalay from the Parliamentary Group of the DPS, Martin Dimitrov from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, Valeri Simeonov from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, Georgi Nedev from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian National Assembly, the People's Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for the imbalance in it as of 31 January 2015. As an importer of this draft decision, I propose as Chairman of the Temporary Commission Lachezar Nikiforov of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to change the decision. The Commission shall be of 9 members, having one representative and one of the independent Members of Parliament from each parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u17	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Krasimir Jankov to include another member in the composition of the Commission, a Member of Parliament who does not belong to a parliamentary group. Vote 131 MPs: 46 against 77, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a proposal on the composition of the Commission. As chairman of the Temporary Committee, I propose Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u19	Any other suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u20	Madam President, Mr President, colleagues, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party, I propose Magdalena Tasheva as a member of the Commission, whose composition... [[Replying and shouting.]] Excuse me! Our proposal is for chairman. [[(Reply and shout.) Awesome.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u21	Colleagues, any other speeches on the debate on the draft decision? I won't. There are no proposals for editorial changes. The composition of eight members has been proposed. We will first vote on the composition, and then, for the reason that there are two nominations for President... [[Heckling]] ABB doesn't have a proposal. [[ABB lines.]] Who's being proposed? [[Reply from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev.]] Colleague, stand up and tell me who you suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u22	Dear Madam President, you were in the Chamber when I proposed a composition of the Temporary Commission without "Attack" and for Chairman I proposed the representative of ABC Lachezar Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u23	Thank you. I put to the vote a draft decision together with the eight nominated Members, one from each parliamentary group, for Commissioners, and then there will be a separate vote for President. We are voting on a draft decision together with the eight Commissioners, one from each parliamentary group, which is indisputable. They voted 142 MPs: 140 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We have three proposals for the President of the Commission. In the order of their entry, they will also be put to the vote, as there are no provisional procedural rules in cases where there are more than one nominated, which is why there is no restriction in the MPs how many times for how many candidates they can vote. We accept that for each of the candidates there is a vote on its own. That is to say, the Members of the National Assembly are also entitled to vote in respect of the three candidates. I put to the vote Mr. Kiril Tsochev's proposal that the Commissioner of the ABC Group Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov be President of this Commission. Vote 152 MPs: 44, Against 14, abstention 94. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u24	We want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u25	Revoting, Mr. Tsochev? You have the floor, make a request to re-vote. It's no place to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u26	Mrs. Chairman, I'm sorry I suggested from the point of view. Many colleagues came in after the vote and gave them the right to vote again. Re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u27	Your proposal is correct, Mr. Tsochev. I propose that the Commission be headed by Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov of the ABB group. Voting mode. Vote 154 MPs: 45 against 15, abstention 94. The offer is not accepted. Show the results in groups. I put to the vote Mr. Yachev's proposal for the President of the Commission to be elected Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Commissioner. We are voting for the proposal for the President of the Commission to be elected Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Vote 152 MPs: 93 against 42, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to reschedule this decision because you are aware that today, on this day... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, they provided the quorum, we understood that, even though I called them. But today, on that day, when all the media are focused on what kind of deal is being made, whether you were pregnant last night or pregnant the week, now here you're proving that another deal has been made. Bulgarian energy will be in the hands of this Burgas oligarch. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] I want you to understand what you're voting for. I want you to understand what you're voting for. I would like a re-vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. I put the proposal for the President of the Commission to be elected Mr. Valeri Simeonov. They voted 153 MPs: for 92, against 43, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. [[Noise, lines and shouts by "Attacka."]] Colleagues from Ataka, in the next such call, not chanting, will be sanctioned with a discharge from the plenary. [[(Shouting from... Ataka...)... Resign! Resignation!]] Write it down, guys. I'm waiting for you to deposit it. Show the results in groups! [[Noise and lines.]] Didn't you manage to deposit them on your previous exit? I thought you were going out for a while. [[The President shall address the left-hand side of the Chamber. Claps by GERB and PF.]] We should now vote on Mr. Notev's proposal for the President of the Commission to be elected Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva. Voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Order, please! Vote 151 MPs: 38, against 106, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Show in groups! [[Noise, lines and shouts.]] We are now voting in the Decision at the respective place for President Mr. Valeri Simeonov, in view of the results of the three separate votes. [[(Voices by "Attacka": "Woo!") (Applause by PF.)]] We are voting for President of the Decision Mr. Valeri Simeonov. We are voting for the full version of the Decision with President Valeri Simeonov. Vote 148 MPs: 96, against 39, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. The next item of our weekly programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The reports from the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have been initiated. The Energy Commission report will be presented by Mr. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Before reading the report, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Anton Pavlov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u31	Please vote on the proposal for admission to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u32	They voted 107 MPs: 99, against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u33	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Energy Efficiency Bill, No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015. At its regular meeting, held on 05 February 2015, The Energy Committee discussed the Energy Efficiency Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28.01.2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and other representatives of the Ministry of Energy. The Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy's office was attended by Mrs. Gergana Mitreva, Chief Expert and Mr. Stefan Iliev, Secretary of the Sustainable Energy Development Agency, Mr. Ivaylo Alexiev, Executive Director of the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund, Mr. Dimitar Dukov, Executive Director. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Zhecho Stankov. The new Energy Efficiency Act has been developed in relation to the transposition of Directive 2012/27 of the European Union on energy efficiency. The importers of the bill stated that energy efficiency policy and horizontal policy needs to be integrated into all sectoral policies. In this regard, powers have been put in place by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to conduct sectoral policies. The bill also regulates the development of national energy efficiency action plans and a national plan for improving energy efficiency related to buildings. A requirement is also introduced for non-small or medium-sized enterprises to undergo periodic energy audits and at least once within four years. The implementation of the new requirements introduced by the new Energy Efficiency Act will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the economy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve citizens' living standards. In support of the energy efficiency bill, representatives from the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy and from the Ministry of Transport, Information, Technology and Communications expressed their views. The representatives of the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development expressed support for the new Energy Efficiency Act, saying that the submitted bill introduced the requirements of Directive 2012/27 EU in terms of setting the national energy savings target, implementing the energy efficiency obligations scheme. The Fund for Energy Efficiency and Renewables also gave a positive opinion with recommendations to refine the part that regulates the activity of the Fund. In the course of the discussion took part representatives from the Chamber of Engineers in investment design. They disagreed with the introduction of the period of validity of the registration certificates in the public registers of persons carrying out an energy efficiency and building certification survey and an energy efficiency survey for industrial systems, despite the fact that the bill proposes an increase in the validity period from 3 to 5 years. Attention was paid to the need for legal regulation of trainings for qualification and examples of existing practice were given. In the course of the discussion, the MPs supported the need for quick adoption of the bill, paying attention also to the procedure launched against Bulgaria for non-compliance with its obligations to transpose Directive 2012/27/EU within the time limit. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held the Energy Committee with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at first reading the Energy Efficiency Act No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. With the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, you will be acquainted with the Chairman of the Committee, National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u35	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! At a regular meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Energy Efficiency Bill, No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mr. Ivan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the Ministry of Energy, of the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design and of Civil Organizations. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development at the Ministry of Energy. The project has been developed in connection with the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency. The document contains measures to increase the efforts of the Member States to make more efficient use of energy at each stage of the energy chain from the transmission through distribution to the final consumption of energy. It is based on the existing directives on cogeneration and energy services, bringing them together into a comprehensive legal instrument treating energy efficiency in supply and final consumption of energy. The draft regulation regulates the definition of the national energy efficiency target for 2020. In order to support the implementation of the national objective, a goal is also introduced to increase energy efficiency in the final energy consumption. The aim of the bill is essential to contribute to the achievement of the national energy efficiency targets, thus contributing actively to the EU's efforts to meet the common community objective for 2020. In order to meet the individual objectives, it is provided for the possibility for debtors to contribute to the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund or other financial intermediaries to finance measures to increase energy efficiency. An obligation is introduced in all heated and/or cooled buildings of state ownership to take measures annually to improve the energy performance of at least 3 per cent of their total developed area. It is regulated that all large enterprises are subject to an energy audit at least once every four years. The possibility of issuing a certificate to individual parts of buildings is introduced in case these parts are intended for different purposes. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the period of validity of certificates of entry in public registers of persons carrying out an energy efficiency and building certification survey and an energy efficiency survey for industrial systems is increased from 3 to 5 years. In implementing the measures of the activities arising from the draft law, the owners of the buildings are expected to achieve energy savings, respectively reducing energy costs, which will increase with each subsequent year. Interested ministries, offices and other state structures and municipalities will ensure the implementation of the measures and activities provided for in the Bill within their designated budgets. In addition, funding opportunities under European programmes and other financial instruments in force will be used. The transitional and final provisions propose amendments and additions to the Energy Act relating to the introduction of the provisions of the aforementioned EU Directive. During the discussions, the representatives of the Chamber of Engineers in the investment design expressed their disagreement with the introduction of a period of validity of the registration certificates in the public registers of persons conducting an energy efficiency and building certification survey and an energy efficiency survey for industrial systems, despite the fact that the bill proposes an increase in the validity period of 3 to 5 years. Attention was paid to the need for legal regulation of trainings for qualification and examples of currently existing vicious practices were given. Proposals were also made to find the opportunity for specialists with secondary education to continue their activities. In the course of the discussion, the MPs supported the need for quick adoption of the bill, paying attention also to the procedure launched against Bulgaria for non-compliance with its obligations to transpose Directive 2012/27/EU within the time limit. On 27 November 2014, some of the Members of the National Assembly expressed their principled support for the opinion of the Chamber of Engineers in investment design, paying attention to the need to find adequate legislative measures to address existing problems between the two amendments to the bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 1 vote, is abstentioned, proposes to the National Assembly the Energy Efficiency Act No 502-01-7, tabled by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. We continue with the report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to express the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u37	♪ I can't believe under the Energy Efficiency Act, No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015. At its regular meeting held on February 12th In 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the energy efficiency bill. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Energy "Zecho Stankov" Deputy Minister, Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of the Department of Energy and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development "; by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission "Kostadinka Todorova" a member of the Committee and Anelia Petrova a senior expert in the Department of Legal Development; by the Sustainable Energy Development Agency "Krasimir Naydenov" General Director "Coordination and Management of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources of Energy "; representatives of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design, CNB and others. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Zhecho Stankov was developed in connection with the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency. It lays down the definition of the national energy efficiency target for 2020. To support the implementation of the national objective, a target for increasing energy efficiency in the final energy consumption, which will be allocated as individual targets between: 1. the final suppliers, the last resort suppliers, the traders with the issued licence for the operation of the electricity market that sell electricity to end customers more than 75 GWh per year; 2. heat transfer plants and heat suppliers that sell heat to final customers more than 75 GWh per year; 3. final suppliers and natural gas traders that sell to end customers more than 8 million. cubic meters per year; 4. liquid fuel traders that sell to end customers more than 6.5 thousand. tonnes of liquid fuels per year, with the exception of fuels for transport purposes; 5. traders with solid fuels that sell to end customers more than 13 thousand. tonnes of solid fuels per year. It is envisaged that debtors may make contributions to the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Fund or other financial intermediaries to finance measures to increase energy efficiency. An obligation is introduced in all heated or cooled buildings of state ownership to take measures annually to improve the energy performance of at least 3 percent of their total built-up area. There is also a requirement that all large enterprises be subject to an energy audit at least once every four years. It shall be possible to issue a certificate to individual parts of buildings in case these parts have a different purpose. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the period of validity of the registration certificates in the public registers of persons conducting an energy efficiency and building certification survey and an energy efficiency survey for industrial systems is increased from 3 to 5 years. It is envisaged that the Executive Director of the Sustainable Energy Development Agency, together with the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, issue guidelines for the implementation of energy efficiency and energy savings requirements for the award of procurement contracts for the supply of equipment and vehicles, the purchase or hire of buildings with high energy efficiency indicators. The implementation of the law is entrusted to the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Amendments and additions to the Energy Act have been proposed for the introduction of the requirements of Directive 2012/27/EU. In order to ensure effective and adequate measures to protect the rights of consumers of energy services, an explicit legal provision is laid down on the possibility of changing the contractual terms and prices of the services provided, consumers to unilaterally terminate the contract if they do not accept the new terms or prices, as well as on the choice of payment method, the frequency of provision of billing information, the provision of electronic billing information and electronic invoices, access to consumption data. The implementation of the new requirements introduced by the bill is expected to lead to an increase in the competitiveness of the economy, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and an improvement in citizens' living standards. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Energy Efficiency Act, No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. We continue with the Commission's report on monitoring the activities of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mr. Iskren Veselinov as Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe under the Energy Efficiency Act, No 502-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015. At its extraordinary meeting on 19 February 2015, the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC examined the Energy Efficiency Act. The meeting was attended by: Alexandrina Dimitrova, Head of Department of the Department of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Valentina Ilieva, State Expert at the Department of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development. The bill was developed in connection with the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency. It lays down the definition of the national energy efficiency target for 2020 to support the implementation of which is also intended to increase energy efficiency in final energy consumption. The development of national energy efficiency action plans and a national energy efficiency improvement plan for 2020 related to buildings is at stake. A requirement is also introduced for non-small or medium-sized enterprises to undergo periodic energy audits and at least once within four years. The implementation of the new requirements introduced by the new Energy Efficiency Act will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the economy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve citizens' living standards. In order to meet the individual objectives, it is provided for the possibility for debtors to contribute to the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund or other financial intermediaries to finance measures to increase energy efficiency. An obligation is introduced in all heated or cooled buildings of state ownership to take measures to improve energy performance annually. There is also a requirement that all large enterprises be subject to an energy audit at least once every four years. The possibility of issuing a certificate to individual parts of buildings shall be given. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the period of validity of the registration certificates in the public registers of persons conducting an energy efficiency and building certification survey and an energy efficiency survey for industrial systems is increased from 3 to 5 years. It is envisaged that the Executive Director of the Sustainable Energy Development Agency, together with the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, issue guidelines for the implementation of energy efficiency and energy savings requirements for the award of procurement contracts for the supply of equipment and vehicles, the purchase or hire of buildings with high energy efficiency indicators. The fact that the implementation of the Law is entrusted to the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications highlights the importance of energy efficiency policy and the need for its integration into all sectoral policies. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC proposes to the National Assembly to adopt at first reading the Energy Efficiency Bill No 502 01 7 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January. 2015 "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Dear colleagues, we are going into debate mode. Please make statements on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria I would like to declare our support for this Draft at first reading. We understand the need to develop a new Energy Efficiency Act. The initiated infringement procedure by the European Commission because of the failure to comply with our obligations to transpose Directive 2012/27 of the European Union is only one of our reasons. It is leading to us that we are talking about a law governing public relations in the formation and implementation of the energy efficiency policy. The Bill also regulates the definition of the national energy efficiency target for 2020. We need a functioning and efficient system for energy audit of buildings and industrial systems, as well as for energy certification of buildings in accordance with European directives, the definition and implementation of a scheme for energy efficiency obligations and the choice of persons obliged under this scheme. At the same time, I would like to say that we also have a lot of comments on the bill. In the proposed text there are many ambiguities, illogical commitment, confusion of functions and concepts. Adopted in this form, it may be another law that will not be possible to implement, but will only report to our European partners that we have transposed the directives. I would therefore like to say that, between first and second readings, we will make a number of proposals. The initial Energy Efficiency Bill regulated the development and adoption of a Law on the House of Energy Efficiency Consultants. In the new version of this Bill we will propose to include texts that will institutionalise the Branch Professional Chamber of Energy Efficiency Consultants. With our proposals, we will try to develop a comprehensive framework for increasing energy efficiency. The implementation of the new requirements introduced by the draft new law will have to lead to an increase in the competitiveness of the economy, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and an improvement in people's living standards. Taking into account the complexity of the matter discussed in the Energy Efficiency Act, we will propose a maximum period of time between first and second reading to discuss the proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Replies to the speech of the MP Mr. Boychev? I don't see anyone who wants to. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I declare that we will support the Bill at first reading for several reasons. The first and main reason is that we have been late with the transposition of Directive 2012/27 of the European Union. I believe that it is not too late, and the criminal procedures that have already been announced, with the adoption of the law, we will find a way to stop them. This bill has been developed for a long time by the previous government, but, honourable Members, you should be aware of those who have not read the Bill that all those criteria and conditions that are laid down in this law will result in certification not only of public buildings, but should also start certification of the relevant proceedings with a single objective of not only increasing competitiveness but also increasing the energy efficiency of the undertakings concerned. Colleagues, this means that our fight against reducing harmful emissions, the introduction of green energy and certification of the buildings concerned will cause certain businesses to invest. This means that they must find certain funds and in this difficult financial economic situation it will not be easy for them. Of course, since we are members of the European Union, we must do everything we can to implement these directives, apart from being transposed, they must also be respected. I don't know if you are aware, but Bulgaria is perhaps the only country that most seriously and mostly transposed all directives, but compliance with the laws after their transposition becomes much more difficult and much more difficult. From the point of view of increasing the efforts for more efficient implementation of energy efficiency activities and measures, this bill introduces a requirement not only for end-users, which was the purpose of the previous law, but also for defining the national objective for energy savings. The implementation of the energy efficiency obligation scheme and the choice of persons obliged under this scheme, as well as the redistribution of obligations, in line with changing conditions on the energy services market. In order to increase the possibility for the Energy Efficiency Act to fulfil its positive role in substance, it is necessary to make more changes, additions and clarifications. For example, we must immediately harmonise the Energy Act and define them in the same way and some of the terms that have been missed in this Law. The terms for energy services, energy service companies and energy service providers, certificates of origin and guarantees of origin and other terms must be defined, in order to ensure uniformity between first and second readings. Colleagues, another important thing in this Bill is that the way the calculation and distribution of the new national energy savings target is changing. However, what happens to the state's commitments under the three three-year plan ending in 2016 is also unclear. How will their performance be reported? The proposed Bill lacks clear texts for the completion of these 3-year plans by 2016. A serious omission of the Draft Law is the lack of a mechanism to identify the circle of debtors among whom the national objective must be allocated. There is no detailed mechanism for the verification of the objective and control of the debtors and their sale of energy. I see some of the importers are here, and I think they'll hear and pay attention to this part of the bill. The next thing that is essential in the Bill is that the market mechanism for trading securities issued on the basis of the certificates of energy savings is not signed, in fact, the so-called white certificates. Such a mechanism would relieve the pressure on sales prices of energy sold by the investments made by energy traders. Other inaccuracies may also be indicated. In this Bill, we can find gaps, but, colleagues, as I have started, I call on you to support the Bill at first reading so that we can clear up the misunderstandings and keep up with the European Union directives between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u44	Thank you for the speech of the MP Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. There's a vote coming up. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs from the couloirs. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! While we are waiting for colleagues to return to the plenary, I am making a procedural proposal to extend the period between the first and second readings of two weeks, so we have agreed with the leading Commission, as there will indeed be a lot of proposals. I use this opportunity to thank all the parliamentary groups for their constructive attitude and constructive speeches. I hope we will always be able to find the same positive tone we found with the adoption of this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The last person who should be giving advice is me as a doctor, but I still think that the Bill should be adopted at first reading and then ask for an extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u48	That's right. Since we are waiting for the MPs to enter, we will first vote on the bill, then we will vote on the extension procedure. Colleagues, at first reading we are voting on the Energy Efficiency Bill, No 502-01-7, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015. 99 MPs voted: 96, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next vote, which relates to a procedure for extending the period between the first and second reading of the Bill. It's a two-week offer. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted, which concludes this point. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is leading. You are welcome to express the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, before reading the report, I would like to ask to be admitted to the House the following representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister, Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of State Debt and Financial Markets, Anna Andonova and Petya Nikiforova experts in the same Directorate, as well as representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission: Vladimir Savov, Commissioner, Valentina Stefanova and Veselina Mandadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u50	There is a proposal for admission in the hall of the listed persons. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 1. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u51	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. At a meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets (IAS), Anna Andonova and Petya Nikiforova, experts in the same Directorate; the Commission for Financial Supervision: Vladimir Savov, Member of the Commission, Valentina Stefanova, Head of the Department of Metodology and Complaints. The bill was presented by Mrs. Mihailova. The aim of the proposed Draft is to transpose into the Bulgarian legislation the requirements relating to the activity of investment firms into Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the performance of business by credit institutions and on the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC and establishing conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. The main points in the bill are: 1. An amendment has been proposed to the provisions concerning the initial capital required for obtaining authorisation from investment firms such as the amount of capital remains unchanged, but a version of the texts which regulate capital requirements is proposed in order to enable subsequent implementation of implementing acts which take the form of direct action regulations. 2. The requirements of the management bodies of investment firms are developed by adding those arising from Directive 2013/36/EU. 3. The requirements for disclosure of information by the Financial Supervision Commission regarding capital adequacy and liquidity requirements are introduced in a separate section of the Law. In view of the increased volume of supervisory activities, the Directive provides for Member States to ensure that supervisory authorities have expertise, resources, operational capacity, powers and independence which are necessary to carry out their functions in prudential supervision and non-supervisory arbitration. 4. The bill introduces new enforcement administrative measures and administrative penalties resulting from the explicit requirement of Directive 2013/36/EU for the existence of such sanctions in the laws of the Member States. 5. The draft law further develops the provisions concerning supervision on a consolidated basis, the functions and obligations of the consolidating supervisory authority, participation in supervisory colleges, the relationship of information exchange and cooperation between supervisory authorities, the provision of information to the European Commission, the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European Banking Authority in relation to prudential supervision. 6. The amendments to the Financial Supervision Commission Act provide for the Commission's right to publish the results of the stress tests carried out by the Commission in relation to the capital adequacy of investment firms, to establish effective and secure mechanisms for notifying the supervisory authorities by employees of the investment firm for infringements or potential infringements, as well as for their protection. The application of the new provisions will affect the activity of investment firms, the volume of their activities, in order to comply with the provisions of the law, which will increase the costs of carrying out their activities and indirectly at the price of the services offered by them. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report is coming up. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u53	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 4 February 2015, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister, Tsvetanka Mihailova Head of the Department of the Financial Markets and by the Financial Supervision Commission of Vladimir Savov, Member of the Commission, Valentina Stefanova Head of the Department of Metodology and Complaints, Veselina Mandadjieva Head of the Department of Normative Activity. The bill was presented by Karina Karaivanova "Deputy Minister of Finance." According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed Draft is to transpose into the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2013/36/EU and to create conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on the activity of investment firms. Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 establishes uniform and directly applicable requirements for capital items and reasonable requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. The requirements of Directive 2013/36/EU, which are transposed by the Bill, relate to the activity of investment firms as well as to an obligation for the Financial Supervision Commission to issue a capital adequacy and liquidity regulation for investment firms. The Law amended the administrative penal provisions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act by introducing new enforcement measures and administrative penalties resulting from the explicit requirement of the Directive on their existence in the laws of the Member States. The Transitional and Final Provisions make corresponding amendments to the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the Act on the Activity of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment undertakings and the Law on Public Offering of Securities. According to the importer, the application of the provisions of the Bill will affect the activity of investment firms, with the volume of their activities increasing substantially, which will lead to an increase in their direct costs and will reflect indirectly on the prices of their services. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the outcome vote:........................ 16 Members of Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. We're going into debate mode. I ask for speeches on the bill in question. I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are going to vote at first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments, No 502-01-5, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. The proposal is adopted, which concludes the debate on this point. We move on to the next bill on the agenda: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. The bill is assigned to two committees. I ask the rapporteur from the Committee on Budget and Finance to present briefly the debate to the Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, at the previous point, I suggested that they be admitted to the plenary hall of Karina Karaivanova and Tsvetanka Mihaylova. In addition, for this point I propose to be admitted to the Chamber and Snezhanka Koleva.. expert in the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u56	Thank you. Honourable Members, we are voting for admission to the House of the listed persons. Vote 81 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, Quaestors, invite the listed persons to the Chamber. Mrs. Angelova, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u57	♪ I can't believe on a Deposit Guarantee Bill in Banks No 402-01-13 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. At a meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Tsvetanka Mihailova The bill was presented by Mrs. Mihailova. The draft transposition into Bulgarian law Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes which introduce rules for better protection of depositors in banks through greater unification of the rules for guaranteeing deposits in the Community, namely: clear scope of the guarantee, shorter repayment periods, better exchange of information and strict funding requirements. The main points in the bill are: First, the Bulgarian Deposit Guarantee System provides that all banks in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, their branches in other Member States, as well as branches of banks from third countries, where there is no deposit guarantee system in the country of headquarters or where the amount and scope of the guarantee are less than those provided for in the Bulgarian law. Secondly, the existing rules on the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks are maintained and further developed, providing for an opportunity for the Fund to participate in alternative prevention and assistance measures to prevent greater costs of the repayment of guaranteed deposits. The management structure and the representation of the Fund, as well as its control functions in the insolvency proceedings, do not change. Thirdly, the scope of the guarantee in respect of the depositors is maintained, i.e. all natural and legal persons are guaranteed, with the exception of professional investors, state institutions and local self-government bodies and local administration. The exceptions to the current law for persons granted privileged interest rates, for persons holding shares providing them with more than 5 percent of the votes in the general meeting of the shareholders of the bank, for members of the management and supervisory board, for natural persons who are partners in specialised audit firms, as well as for spouses and relatives by rights and by legal line to the second degree of the persons already listed, as these exceptions have been removed from the eligible exemptions from the scope of the Directive. In addition, the Directive requires each Member State to provide, within a short period (from 3 to 12 months), higher protection for a certain category of deposits related to important social events in human life (sales of property for residential needs, divorce, retirement and others. The level of such higher protection should be consistent with the standard of living in the Member State concerned. In view of this, the Bill provides for a threshold of the guarantee for these types of deposits up to 250 000 BGN. and a maximum period of protection of three months. Fourth, in the light of the provisions of the Directive, the Bill provides for the withdrawal of the opening contributions of banks. The main sources of fundraising in the Fund are the annual and extraordinary contributions, the income from investments and the funds from the distribution of the cash assets of a bank in bankruptcy. The annual premium contributions will be determined on the basis of the amount of guaranteed deposits and the level of risk assumed by the relevant bank. This will allow the coverage of risk profiles of individual credit institutions, including their different business models, and will encourage the implementation of business models characterised by a lower level of risk. The methodology for calculating risk-based premium contributions will be implemented by the Fund and will be approved by the Bulgarian National Bank. In accordance with the Directive and taking into account the specifics of the Bulgarian economy and the experience of the Fund, the Bill provides for several means of financing the lack of funds and providing liquidity for extraordinary contributions, loans, including issuance of debt securities and loans from the state budget in light of the current procedure, providing for the loan to the Fund to be approved by the Council of Ministers. Fifthly, the Directive provides for a gradual reduction of the repayment period, with seven working days from the date on which the deposits became unavailable by 1 January 2024. With the proposed Bill, the reduced deadline for payment seven working days is introduced with the entry into force of the Law, and Bulgaria will not benefit from the transitional period with which the rights of the depositors will be guaranteed to the maximum extent. Under certain conditions and specified in the Law, the Fund's funds will also be able to be used to finance support and prevention measures in order to prevent banks from falling into insolvency. However, these measures will be taken in accordance with a clearly defined framework and should in any case comply with State aid rules. The costs of measures taken to prevent the insolvency of a bank shall not exceed the costs of fulfilling the Fund's obligation to protect guaranteed deposits in banks. Sixthly, the directive provides that the funds of the deposit guarantee schemes are to be invested.................................................................................................................. In this context, the Bill provides for an extension of the scope of the instruments in which the Fund's funds can be invested, subject to liquidity and minimum risk requirements. Seventhly, in view of the wider functions and responsibilities of the Fund, texts are included in the Bill aimed at improving the exchange of information with banks and other participants in the financial stability system. Investors will already be better informed about whether their deposits are guaranteed and how the deposit guarantee system works. In conclusion, it should be borne in mind that given the initiation of infringement procedure No 2014/2240 in respect of non-compliance with the obligations arising for the Republic of Bulgaria under art. Art. 1, § 3 and art. 10, § 1, para. 1 of Directive 94/19/EC on deposit guarantee schemes as amended by Directive 2009/14/EC and on non-compliance with art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Directive should be transposed in extremely short time. The proposed Bill will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Bill on Deposit Guarantee in Banks, No 402-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Please read the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the second identical bill on this subject. The bill is to amend the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, No 454-01-41, submitted by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. Come with the report on the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u59	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, No 454-01-41, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. At a meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Tsvetanka Mihailova The bill was presented by the MP Rumen Gechev. The proposed Bill introduces new measures to ensure the financing of a shortage of funds in the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks. The draft provides that if the Fund's funds are not sufficient to cover its obligations under the Deposit Guarantee Act, then the Fund's Governing Council must, within three days of the establishment of the shortfall, adopt a decision to cover it by increasing the annual premium contribution to 2 per cent of the total amount of the deposit base of each bank for up to three years. The Governing Council of the Fund will require banks to pay in advance these annual premium contributions within a specified time limit and with an increased amount. The amount paid in advance by each bank will be deducted from the annual premium contribution due for the following years. This will ensure the necessary stability and integrity in the work of the Fund, which will be able to attract additional funds at the expense of future annual premium contributions. In addition, the Bill provides that in case of an additional shortage of funds and following the application of the above measure, the Bulgarian National Bank must cover the additional shortfall within 10 days. The Bulgarian National Bank is obliged to grant a loan to the Fund at the amount necessary to cover the additional shortage of funds and at interest equal to the interest in force at the time of granting the loan a basic interest rate. The loan will be provided by the financial resources of the management of the Bank of Bulgaria and by the Bulgarian National Bank. With these changes, the bill aims to eliminate the risk of the budget being burdened with extraordinary expenditure, which could lead to a breach of European budgetary stability requirements and a budget deficit of up to 3 per cent per year. In the course of the discussion, it was pointed out that in its opinion of 9 December 2014, the European Central Bank stressed that such proposals violated Article 9 of the Law. 123 paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The ban on central banks for financing the public sector is affected by the institutional and financial independence of the Bulgarian National Bank, as the granting of such credit can significantly limit the financial resources in the Bulgarian National Bank and its reserves, thus threatening the performance of the tasks of the Bulgarian National Bank related to the European System of Central Banks, as well as the stability of the currency board in Bulgaria and therefore the power of the Bulgarian National Bank to maintain price stability. In addition, the proposed amendments are contrary to Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes which are transposed into the Bulgarian legislation with proposals from the Council of Ministers a Bill for guaranteeing deposits in banks. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes that the National Assembly not adopt a bill amending the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, No 454-01-41, submitted by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. On the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, we also have an opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Tanchev, I don't see him in the room. I'm asking one of the deputies to come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At its regular meeting held on 28 January 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Bill on Guarantee of Deposits to Banks submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission's meeting was attended by: - from the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Milena Boykova, Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Head of the Department of the same Directorate, and Mrs. Snezanka Koleva State Expert in the same Directorate; - from the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund: Mr. Radoslav Milenkov, Chairman of the Management Board, and Mr. Borislav Stratev, Member of the Management Board; - from the Bulgarian National Bank: Mrs. Miroslava Dimova I. This Bill aims to introduce into our national legislation the provisions of Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes. The Directive was published in the European Union's Official Journal of 12 June 2014 and the deadline for transposition is 3 July 2015. It replaces Directive 94/19/EC on deposit guarantee schemes as amended by Directive 2009/14/EC. In relation to the many significant changes, the importer proposes that the existing Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks be replaced by a new one. At the same time, the provisions of the directive, which are in line with the directive, will also be reflected in the new law. The transposition of the new Directive 2014/49/EU should achieve better protection of depositors in banks, a clear scope of the guarantee, shorter repayment periods, improved exchange of information and strict funding requirements. II. In accordance with the Directive, the Bill provides for all banks, including their branches in other Member States, to participate in the deposit guarantee system. This also applies to branches of banks from third countries where they do not have a deposit guarantee system or where the amount and scope of the guarantee are less than those provided for in the Bulgarian law. The existing rules on the Deposit Guarantee Fund shall be maintained and further developed, including alternative prevention and support measures to prevent greater repayment costs of guaranteed deposits. The maximum coverage of the guarantee and the amount of the cover BGN, which are introduced by the transposition of Directive 94/19/EC into the current law, are maintained. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the new Directive, a higher protection is envisaged up to 250 thousand. BGN, within 3 months for a certain category of deposits related to important social events in the life of the person.Sale of property for residential needs, divorce, retirement and others. III. The bill, in line with the directive, envisages dropping the opening contributions of the banks to the Fund. The means of financing shortages and providing liquidity to the Fund are also described. Furthermore, the provisions of the Directive extend the scope of the instruments in which the Fund can invest its funds. In order for the depositors to be as protected as possible, the draft law provides for the payment of the guaranteed deposits by the Fund to take place within 7 working days from the date on which they became unavailable. This is the shortest period provided for in the Directive, which allows it to be achieved by the Member States by 1 January 2024. The draft law also introduces the provisions of the Directive aimed at improving cooperation between deposit guarantee schemes and ensuring better protection of depositors in branches of banks in different Member States. IV. Last but not least, due to the initiation of infringement procedure No 2014/2240 in respect of non-compliance with the obligations arising for the Republic of Bulgaria under art. Art. 1 (3) and Art. 1 (3) Paragraphs 10 (1), 10 (1) and 10 (1) are replaced by the following: 1 of Directive 94/19/EC on deposit guarantee schemes as amended by Directive 2009/14/EC and on non-compliance with art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Directive 2014/49/EU should be transposed into Bulgarian law as soon as possible. With the adoption of this Draft Law, this objective will be fulfilled, with the exception of the provision of art. 14, para. 6 of the Directive concerning the procedures for the exchange of information between the deposit guarantee schemes of the Member States, which will be introduced with the adoption of internal procedures and the signing of interinstitutional agreements. In view of the above and as a result of the vote taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously, with 12 votes for the vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for guaranteeing deposits in banks, No 402-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Toshev, for the Commission's opinion. On behalf of the drafter, the Council of Ministers, does anyone want to argue it, make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. On the other bill submitted by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft proposed by us has a very narrow field of legal regulation and it does only cover the assumptions of a temporary shortage of funds under the Fund. I will not hide that, on the basis of the experience of CCB, we are seeking to regulate these relations, namely the relationship between the Fund, between banks, between other persons and BNB, in particular in order to ensure security and stability in these crisis situations. The proposed Amendment Act aims to further regulate these relations by stepping on the current regulation, in fact we are not essentially making special changes, but we are simply changing the amount of the funds attracted by the Fund in the event of this temporary shortage of banks. Now, at the moment, he's 1.5%. We propose to raise the ceiling a little bit and become 2%, so that the Fund can require these annual contributions from the banks for a three-year period in advance, according to the specific situation. New obligations of the Governing Council of the Fund, which should be authorised for these actions, are envisaged in this regard. This will ensure the necessary stability and integrity in the work of the Fund, which will be able to attract additional funds from the banks, not to have the budget to cover a similar shortage as in the case of CCB. The new regulation also enables BNB to credit the temporary shortage of funds under the Fund with funds from the management reserve. Our bill aims and eliminates the danger of burdening the budget, and this is our main objective, with extraordinary costs, which could violate the European budgetary stability requirements and limit the budget deficit to 3% per year. Therefore, I do not see any contradiction with the existing European and Bulgarian regulations. I believe that the grounds set out in the Commission's opinion are untenable. We are not making any new regulation, but simply changing the parameters and giving additional powers to the Governing Council of the Fund. Therefore, I also ask you to support this Bill, which really has as the subject of regulation a very private case, a private hypothesis, the hypothesis of a temporary shortage of funds under the Fund to cover guaranteed deposits.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev, for arguing on behalf of an importer. Now we're going into discussion mode. Please make statements on both bills. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will briefly speak on both bills. Firstly, under the bill proposed by the Council of Ministers, we, by the Reformation Block, supported it, because there are a lot of good things in it that we see, and they are quite timely as proposals. First of all, we appreciate a positive proposal to determine according to the risk the premium contribution each bank makes to this Fund. Thus, virtually more risky banks will have to import more. However, banks that are more stable and who better care for their depositors will make smaller contributions and will be able to have more money in practice for their depositors and other payments. So we appreciate that. We also positively assess the provision of an increased guarantee in some hypotheses for individuals, as is, for example, when a natural person has sold an immovable property or received some kind of insurance payment and it is above the amount of 196 thousand. lv. In this case, the three-month period, which is provided for an additional guarantee up to this amount, is something quite reasonable, and something that protects citizens because, agree, not every day such transactions are made. In practice, they can be extremely important to a person. It is also nice that the so-called "cessions".. this problem with the missions we had and which we had to deal with under the KTB case, has also found a place and is reflected so that no such transactions are allowed after the imposition of a measure by the Bulgarian National Bank. I hope that there will not be such a hypothesis, of course, but in the case that a bank is in serious condition and has to be under special supervision or such a measure to be implemented, such transactions will not be eligible after the imposition of the measure. There is another good thing, and that is in terms of the period in which the payment of protected deposits begins. In order not to go back to the hypothesis of waiting for four or five months and more BNB to wonder whether to withdraw the license or not, it is already clearly stated here that within a week, even five days I think it was the proposal, this thing should happen. And the already protected depositors can really have access to their funds. However, there is also one point in this Bill, to which I am paying attention and which we will also insist between the two readings to be corrected: in art. 23 The Fund is intended to be able to practically credit banks, to carry out quasi-credit activities in certain hypotheses, but in general this possibility of the Fund is virtually contrary to its nature and its purpose. For us, this is something unacceptable that can actually make its very existence meaningless. Think about it in the hypothesis in which a bank is in difficulty and it is financed by the Fund with the funds that are actually there to guarantee the funds of the depositors and, God forbid, the bank in question eventually went bankrupt and in the meantime the funds of the Fund are consumed. Then the question arises: in practice, what money will be paid to the depositors in the same bank? In practice, public resources will be needed. The public sector will have to pay twice, so such a thing for us is unacceptable, in a way it can even be said that this is some kind of circumvention of the principles of the currency board and that they would be violated in this way. We're gonna insist that this thing gets dropped. Under the BSP Bill, which I personally am surprised that, anyway, they did not withdraw it at least until now, when they had the opportunity, but I and the Commission had the opportunity to explain to Mr. Gechev, now I do not see it in the Chamber that what they want, namely BNB to finance the Fund, is something that is unacceptable, which is contrary to the Treaty on European Union. Here it seems to me that he heard me perhaps because he did not argue the BSP Bill, i.e., I hope this thing finally understood and accepted it, even more so, that, if you remember, last year, personally here BNB's sponsor came and, at our insistence, came out of this tribune and explained that such a thing neither the European Central Bank allows, nor the Treaty on European Union allows, at all, such funding from the Central Bank of a public institution, and it was she and the Deposit Guarantee Fund, is unacceptable and cannot be done, but it continues to appear in the BSP Bill and to insist on its adoption. This obviously cannot be accepted, and there we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u66	Thank you for your speech. Mr. Slavov's lines? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u67	The question of whether this Bill, which we propose, violates the primary law of the European Union, is significantly discussional and controversial. Understand, there are rules by which we can define a subject as public-law. The Fund doesn't have these characteristics of a public-law entity, but I don't want to go into this dispute right now. The opinion of the European Central Bank, if you have read it, Mr. Slavov, is not categorical. On the contrary, there is a text that says that it welcomes such measures, which will stimulate the responsibility of the banks and solidarity between them in the event of a temporary financial shortage and the bank welcomes that the other banks are responsible for completing this deficiency in this hypothesis, so that the opinion of the European Bank is not categorical and gives no reason to believe that this bill is not adopted by the European Central Bank in its other parts. I do not want to argue about the hypothesis in which the BNB as a final creditor, as it is under the BNB Act, in case all other possible sources and loans from banks and loans from other persons, and there is no shortage left, there is no possibility to fill this shortage by providing credit to the Fund. If this concerns you, we could review it and give up on it, but the other measures we are proposing are, on the contrary, welcomed by the European Central Bank. So I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Georgiev, you're a lawyer. I see that you have difficulty arguing what I have noted is contrary to the Treaty on European Union. You also understand perfectly that conflicting with the Treaty is important, not the opinion of one or another body. I pay attention to you again, here came personally the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and said that this thing contradicts the Treaty as well. There is an opinion on your bill, which was also quoted in the Commission report that the European Central Bank expressed the same negative opinion. I no longer see anyone else to ask to tell you that this is contrary to the Treaty on European Union and it is unacceptable, but, as they say, you in BSP know. This thing can't be supported. But I see that there is one misunderstanding, and maybe it leads to this problem in practice. Obviously there is a misunderstanding that the BNB can only finance a bank, and it is in case of systemic risk to the banking system, i.e. it is an emergency measure in an extremely difficult situation and case. BNB cannot finance public organizations such as the Fund, it is not a bank. It's a public organization, let's not displace the debate and comment on it. This is clear and indisputable. It is created by law, serves as a public function and in practice guarantees the deposits of citizens in banks. At a Commission meeting there were statements of the kind that he was almost a private organisation, which is simply absurd and I see no point in commenting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The next speech is from the MP Mr. Bayraktarov. Welcome to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Deposit Guarantee Act is an extremely important Law that actually guarantees stability in the state. However, I hope more than you have made efforts and read carefully both the Law of the Council of Ministers and the Bill of Members of BSP left Bulgaria. I will make a statement on both bills, because in essence the BSP Bill left Bulgaria does not foresee much changes, but there is a moment that can negatively affect Bulgarian citizens, and this is precisely the moment with the opportunity to raise the contributions from banks to the Guarantee Fund. This moment, honourable Members, allows speculation on the part of the banks and a reason to raise interest rates, so keep it in mind. This is now becoming a market tool for speculation. Here we must very carefully approach, as it is very easy to say: yes, we will raise the contributions in terms of a threatened bank. However, I am going to ask you: and why do we not first take responsibility for the banking supervision of the Financial Investigation Directorate and then apply some such extreme instrument for raising the contributions, which, I say again, allows speculation in the markets and raising interest rates? Bulgaria is the state with the highest bank interest rates. I must tell you that we cannot yet develop our business, as interest rates are higher than profit rates. And if we have to make one more chance to not be able to take credit at all anymore, because we will practically not be able to pay it off with our profits, believe me, I will not be the one to vote on it. This under your bill must be judged very carefully. Now we're going to the Bill of the Council of Ministers. Honourable Members, on 20 December 2014, we voted on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here it is appropriate to remind you that one part of the political parties went to sleep and another part were drunk. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I want to remind you of that. Don't forget that. Why am I reminding you of this? Because in this Bill, and more precisely in the adoption of the State Budget Act, we made an amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Act. It was motivated that it should be given operationality to the government, as the situation is extremely complicated, six months people were not paid the money under this law by the declared bankruptcy bank KTB. In fact, what we have done is that we have taken away Parliament's functions to authorise lending. Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and no one can take away the functions of parliament to decide what loan will be granted, to whom it will relax and for what. In the proposed Draft Law of the Council of Ministers in art. 18, para. 2, p. 2 Now it turns out that this intention was not temporary, but permanent. In other words, the Council of Ministers will be the one to decide what loan, how much to give in such crisis situations to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. By the way, there is already a controversial question here - is this Fund really a private entity, or is it a public entity, provided that, in the end, the State pays, the State guarantees by law and the State must provide funds, as has happened in the case of KTB. Dear colleagues, the Patriotic Front will not support the Bill in this format regarding art. 18, para. 2, p. 2, as I repeat, there is a division of authorities in Bulgaria. It is a parliamentary republic, parliament is the supreme authority, then follow the judiciary and executive power. I'm telling you here to think carefully, to take back the old one, because there's a violation of the Constitution. And the slightest excuse gives me to say this thing and the situation created with regard to the ratification of a debt issue, which you have seen what causes for populism by knowledgeable and unknowing people have developed. One of them's already buying a gun. I don't know who he's going to fight, but I hope he got himself some kind of a bead when he went to Crimea. Think very seriously about not having such situations of speculation, and at least this approach takes away the possibility of transparency, as no one will know what internal debts are moving anymore, it will not be obliged to notify Parliament. Thank you, I hope you think seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u72	Thank you. Replies, honourable colleagues, to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u73	Colleague Bayraktarov, you're really right. We must take into account the risk that banks should not raise interest rates with any explanation that there are new burdens on them, and this leads to the need to raise interest rates on loans. But do you seriously think that if we just increase their weight by five thousand, I stress, five thousand, or half a percent, that's really a reason for some excessive interest rate hike on loans? I don't think so. And now there is an opportunity for the Fund to impose a measure that would require a percentage and a half increase in the contribution from the banks, and we suggest a little increase in this limit and be 2%. In fact, behind this whole dispute lies the main difference between right and left vision of who should bear the burden and burden in the hypothesis of a shortage of funds under the Fund. It is clear that the right-wing think that this should be the state and it should cover, as you say, the outrage of both the Bank's supervision and the banks themselves. Here you are wrong that only the Bank's supervision is guilty and the banks themselves must respond. The left view is that this should be a solidarity responsibility of all banks, as they are the system that is responsible for some failure within the system. That's our understanding. That's what we insist on. Your arguments, which are against transferring excessive powers to the Council of Ministers, we understand them and will probably support them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u74	Thanks for the line. Second line to Mr. Bayraktarov? I can't see. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Georgiev, thank you for listening carefully to my speech. Thank you in advance for the support you will have in respect of art. 18, para. 2, p. 2. I want to bring some clarity, because I think you misunderstood me. I mean, there's no left and right patriot. There are Bulgarian patriots, as we are from the Patriotic Front. I don't care about the left or the right. However, I am interested in Bulgarian citizens. That's exactly the accent I paid attention to. If you're impressed, I haven't commented on whether we're in favour or against. I told you that it should be very carefully assessed, as this creates a prerequisite for speculation. And speculation will be carried out not by the Bulgarian citizens, but by the banks! They will make this speculation about raising interest rates. By the way, they are already trying to carry out this speculation after we submitted a bill for amendment of art. 417 and we asked for it to be dropped and canceled. 2, which allows for bank arbitrariness. I'm telling you right now it's a bank arbitrariness! Because hundreds of thousands of honest and respectable citizens have fallen under the blows of this article for immediate execution, without the bank having at all the opportunity to prove that there is such a claim on the base................................of an extract from the books. And did you know that such a term does not exist, even in the Accounting Act?! There's no such term! There is no normal person who understands accounting to tell you that this is an official document. And to this absurdity, hundreds of thousands of people have lost their properties. Now, if we give the opportunity for further speculation, excuse me, I won't be a part of this. As I said before the New Year I cannot be a participant and be responsible for the fact that we have to pay the debts to CTB 4 billion. BGN that we have to pay the debt for the update of the budget with 3.7% deficit. However, the populism that moves it, now you forget to explain it to the people that you have put us in a debt crisis In fact, I don't know if it's BSP, because it turns out Oresharski gave up BSP and was never a member of BSP. That is the truth, and these facts must be said because the people are paying these debts today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u76	Thank you. The People's Representative Martin Dimitrov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We will not support the BSP Bill because they are stubborn in the serious economic mistake they want to make by allowing the Bulgarian National Bank to finance the Deposit Guarantee Fund. We tried to be as useful as possible to the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We invited the governor Dimitar Kostov, who should be close to them by heart for many reasons to explain to them how this violates the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. He obviously didn't do the job. Then they read the position of the European Central Bank, but that was obviously not enough. Now I get an answer from them that eventually, if supported at first reading, between first and second readings were ready to edit this text. The logical question is: people, why didn't you edit it so far? You have seen for good reason, and international institutions have said that BNB cannot finance such an organization as the Deposit Guarantee Fund. One of BSP's lawyers, not to mention it by name...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u79	...the question of whether this organisation is publicly owned or private. Excuse me, an organization created by law, whose leadership is elected by the participation of the Council of Ministers and BNB, is naive to be defined as private. It's obviously publicly owned. If it were private, how will its leadership be determined with the participation of the Council of Ministers and BNB?! So this argument seems pointless now. There are people who, and whatever arguments they see... There are people who look at the sun and say convinced: It is a night. " It is difficult for such people at some point to present arguments to them. I am merely explaining why we are not going to support your bill. As far as there is a different contribution from the banks depending on the risk, it is something that should have been done a long time ago, colleagues, for the following reason. Banks are run differently. When there is good governance, low risk accordingly, low risk means that the National Assembly will not have to vote on loans to the Fund and the Deposit Guarantee Fund to intervene and pay off guaranteed deposits, as is the case with CCB, i.e. banks that are managed less risky, should have a lower contribution. Banks that have a higher level of risk in their management is logical to have a higher contribution. This contribution must depend on the degree of risk. That's what we're gonna support because it's the right thing to do. If he's not here, there's this paradox. Colleagues, it doesn't matter how risky a bank is, it's a contribution. She doesn't change. I mean, it's been like this so far. As well as managing the bank, as much as a higher level of risk to take, the contribution it pays to the Deposit Guarantee Fund is the same. This approach is not good and should include the individual risk assessment. A bank must be aware that if it takes higher risks in its management, it will also pay a higher contribution. The only question is why we're only doing it now. This is a measure that should have been introduced years ago. For me, we need to support her, even more after the very unpleasant KTB story. Such an approach will be a signal to citizens and society. They may see a bank's contribution to the Deposit Guarantee Fund and assess the nature of the risk to the Bank. This is important information. Moreover, this contribution will apply under a market criterion that is interesting. Perhaps you can come up with a better criterion, but one that is now proposed, I admit, is quite interesting. It's a market valuation. The assessment is the behavior of the depositors, the behavior of the people. We will support the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. We will probably have some editorial proposals between first and second readings. I would call on fellow Members who have remarks not to reject the Law of the Council of Ministers, but together to think about editorial proposals between first and second readings to be supported. As they say, not the whole quilt because of the flea. We heard colleague Bajraktarov has objections. They can be discussed and proposed between first and second readings. Colleagues, there is a need for changes, which means that the Law of the Council of Ministers should pass at first reading so that between first and second readings can be made in a better form and that colleagues from all parliamentary groups can make their proposals. If it is rejected, the matter ends today, and that would not be a good testimonial on this subject, on this important issue for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any further comments? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate on both laws. We're going into voting mode. Dear colleagues, we are voting for a bill amending the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, No 454-01-41, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2014. Please vote. They voted 113 MPs: 29, against 59, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the second bill on the point of the Law on Guarantee of Deposits in Banks, No 402-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 December 2014. Dear colleagues, please vote. They voted 119 MPs: 91, against 21, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, prof. Gechev. Here you go, Professor. Gechev, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A parallel Central Bank has just been made. Something miraculous in Europe's practice. We are giving an opportunity against which I and my colleagues are strongly opposed to this fund of guarantee to perform the function of a bank with an empty check. And whenever one of the private commercial banks is in trouble, they can borrow and fill in the difference. This means that at the moment you are making a decision, giving indulgence to private banks to do whatever they want. Some to steal as much as they want, to bankrupt as they want. You guarantee them that the Bulgarian people should always take out of their pocket, fill the difference and pay the financial sharks who played the Bulgarian people, as they did with KTB. [[GERB lines.]] Congratulations! [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Shame and shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Second negative vote? I can't see. We're retiring to a well-deserved rest. I'm calling a break at 11.55. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u83	Honourable Members, please take your seats, we are continuing the plenary session. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Next item: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE WORK OF COLLECTIVE INVESTIVES AND OTHER COLLECTIVE INVESTATIONS. The bill is No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. With the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, we will be introduced by its President Petar Kanev. Mr. Kanev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u84	On the basis of art. 46... I don't know, do we have to vote on the composition that was under the previous two laws because it's exactly the same?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u85	It doesn't make sense if they're allowed in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u86	It doesn't make sense. They are again representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission. We've already voted for them. I'll start with the report: ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. At its regular meeting on 28 January 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister, Milena Boykova, Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets and Tsvetanka Mihailova, Head of the Department of Financial Markets and Veselina Mandadjieva; Head of the Financial Supervision Commission at the Department of Legal Capital in Bulgaria. The draft, submitted by Deputy Minister Karina Karaivanova, introduced in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2013/14/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 amending Directive 2003/41/EC on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and Directive 2011/61/EU on persons managing alternative investment funds as regards the pre-reliance of credit ratings. A commitment is introduced for management companies, as well as for alternative investment fund managers, to use adequate risk assessment methods and not to rely solely and mechanically on credit ratings. In assessing compliance with the requirement to avoid pre-reliance on credit ratings, the supervisory authority shall take into account the nature, scale and complexity of the collective investment scheme. Relevant amendments are also provided for in the Social Security Code, irrespective of the fact that the addressee of Directive 2003/41/EC is the institutions for occupational retirement provision, the bill extends the requirements to avoid pre-reliance of credit ratings in respect of all supplementary pension funds. The existing requirements for the rules on monitoring, measuring and risk management procedures relating to the investment of supplementary pension funds shall be completed so as to ensure reliable risk management in accordance with the nature, scale and complexity of the investment of the funds. It is an obligation for pension insurance companies to use adequate risk assessment methods by not mechanically trusting credit ratings. The risk management procedures of pension insurance companies are improved and they undertake to adopt and review the investment policy of the pension fund concerned, with a minimum content as defined by the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of the Security Supervision Management Board. Until now, legislation does not have an explicit obligation to draw up and present them in respect of universal, professional and voluntary pension funds. The procedures for granting an authorisation for the management of an supplementary pension fund are also completed, providing for the presentation of investment policies and risk management rules. In the course of the discussion, the people's representative Zhelyo Boychev asked what the amendment provided for in § 2 of the Draft Law, which is not a requirement of that directive and provides for the Financial Supervision Commission to withdraw a licence issued if it is apparent from the activities carried out by a management company that the main part of the activity takes place in the territory of another Member State or in the territory of third countries, but that a licence has been obtained by the Commission in order to avoid stricter requirements for management companies in another country. The Financial Supervision Commission replied that the amendment was dictated by such cases in practice and would facilitate their work on the implementation of the law. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................................. 18 MPs................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Mrs. Angelova, please submit the report to the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. At a meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister, Tsvetanka Mihaylova Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova. The draft legislation introduces the requirements of Directive 2013/14/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 amending Directive 2003/41/EC on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions concerning undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and Directive 2011/61/EU on alternative investment fund managers as regards the pre-reliance of credit ratings. Management companies and alternative investment fund managers should use adequate risk assessment methods and not rely solely and mechanically on the credit rating, taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of the collective investment scheme. The bill also provides for amendments to the Social Security Code, which are also aimed at introducing changes to European Union legislation. The changes relate not only to supplementary voluntary pension funds under occupational schemes but also to supplementary compulsory pension funds and voluntary pension funds. The bill improves the risk management procedures of pension insurance companies and thus contributes to improving the quality of the investments of supplementary pension funds. Although pension insurance companies already have risk management systems built up, it is possible that the obligations introduced by the Bill may be linked to additional costs for them, but they are not expected to be excessive. Given the need to assess the references to credit ratings in investment policies in art. 175a of the Social Security Code explicitly regulates the obligation of pension insurance companies to adopt and review the investment policy of the pension fund concerned with minimal content, as defined by the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, responsible for the Management Board. In order to ensure the supervision of compliance with the new requirements in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill, it is also provided for the obligation of pension insurance companies to submit to the Commission for financial supervision the rules on risk management and investment policies of the funds they manage within a certain period after the entry into force of the Act. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will present to us Mr. Gechev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy for the First Voting of a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Anna Andonova and Mrs. Petya Nikiforova, experts at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Angel Jalazov, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mr. Vladimir Savov, member of the Financial Supervision Commission and its experts and representatives of pension companies. The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev "Deputy Minister of Finance." He pointed out that the draft law under consideration transposed the texts of Directive 2013/14/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2014 amending the texts of three other Directives: Directive 2003/41/EC on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and Directive 2011/61/EU on persons managing alternative investment funds. All three Directives lay down prudential requirements regarding risk management by institutions for occupational retirement provision, by management or investment firms managing undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities or by alternative investment funds respectively. Directive 2013/14/EU amends Articles of the Directives listed only as regards the pre-reliance of credit ratings. With this Draft Act, the Council of Ministers proposed to introduce obligations for management companies, as well as for alternative investment fund managers, to use adequate risk assessment methods and not to rely solely and mechanically on the credit rating in carrying out their investments in debt instruments. The general principle against pre-reliance of credit ratings should be laid down in the risk management methods and systems of management or investment companies, taking into account their specific characteristics. The bill provides for an extension of the obligations of Directive 2013/14/EU not only on institutions for occupational retirement provision (in accordance with the Social Security Code, these are funds for additional voluntary occupational insurance schemes), but also on supplementary compulsory pension insurance funds and voluntary pension funds. The importer finds, given the amount of assets managed and the number of persons insured, that it is particularly important to improve the quality of investment and protect investors' interests in professional, universal and voluntary pension funds. It was also emphasised that the Bill aims to improve the risk management procedures of pension insurance companies and thus also to improve the quality of the investments of the funds they manage for additional compulsory and voluntary insurance. As regards the amendments to the Social Security Code, which are laid down in the Bill, the importer indicated that they aim to explicitly regulate the obligation of pension insurance companies to adopt and review the investment policy of the funds they manage for compulsory additional and voluntary insurance. Given the need to assess the credit rating and risk assessment, the Financial Supervision Commission will draw up the necessary acts that companies will apply in their activities. Mr. Angel Jalazov, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, presented the Commission's opinion to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, expressing support for the bill. With regard to the changes relating to pension insurance companies and the funds they manage, he announced that the companies already have internal rules which they comply with, although it was not an explicit obligation to do so due to the absence of legal texts. Representatives of pension companies also expressed support for the transposition of Directive 2013/14/ EC. They argued that, without being legally obliged, they adhered to good European practices in their activities with a view to high quality investment and prudent risk management, which ultimately bring good profitability to insured persons. At the end of the discussion and the 16 votes for the vote held, without votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment enterprises, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u91	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. We will now hear the report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u92	"COMMODITY" the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014. At its regular meeting held on 28 January 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Finance Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova Deputy Minister of Finance, Ms. Milena Boykova Director of the Directorate of State Debt and Financial Markets, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova Head of Department of the same Directorate and Mrs. Snezanka Colleva State Expert in the same Directorate; from the Financial Supervision Commission Mr. Vladimir Savov Acting Vice-President, Head of the Management Department, Mrs. Desislava Laskova Head of Department in the same Directorate and Mrs. Veselina Mandadjieva Head of the Department in the Directorate of Law. I. This draft aims to introduce into our national legislation the provisions of Directive 2013/14/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 amending Directive 2003/41/EC on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and Directive 2011/61/EU on alternative investment fund managers with regard to the pre-reliance of credit ratings. II. The draft law proposes the introduction of obligations for management companies, as well as for alternative investment fund managers, to assess and analyse adequately the risks and not to rely only on credit ratings for this purpose. In accordance with art. Paragraph 3a of Directive 2009/65/EC provides that the nature, scale and complexity of the collective investment scheme will be taken into account by the supervisory authority when it forms its assessment of whether the requirement to avoid pre-reliance has been met. III. The bill also provides for requirements to avoid pre-reliance of credit ratings addressed under Directive 2003/41 as institutions for occupational retirement provision to cover all supplementary pension funds. In this regard, amendments to the Social Security Code shall be proposed to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the bill. They aim to improve the risk management procedures of pension insurance companies and thereby increase the quality of the investments of supplementary pension funds. The procedures for granting an authorisation for the management of an supplementary pension fund are also completed, providing for the presentation of investment policies and risk management rules. IV. Last but not least, in relation to the effectiveness of supervision of compliance with the new requirements, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill provide for pension insurance companies to submit their risk management rules and investment policies to the Commission for financial supervision of the funds they manage. In view of the above and as a result of the vote taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed that the National Assembly adopt, with 12 votes.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u93	Thank you. I am opening the debate on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment enterprises. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. The debate is closed. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment enterprises importing the Council of Ministers. Please, whoever is in favour, vote. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I did not see any desire for speeches, perhaps there are no colleagues who are opposed. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 6. The bill has been passed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCESS TO SPACE DATA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, to brief us on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Krasimir Simonski, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u95	I'm voting on Mr. Karadjov's proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 84 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, with the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Space Data, No 502-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 4 February 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Access to Space Data was discussed, No 502-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the Bill. The proposed amendments and additions to the Act on access to spatial data fully transpose Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2007 establishing a spatial information infrastructure in the European Community (INSPIRE) into national legislation. Certain texts of the Bill provide a technical opportunity for public authorities and, under certain conditions, third parties who maintain spatial data sets to connect their spatial data sets and services to the service network. Public authorities' obligations for the exchange of spatial data sets and services for such data are also regulated, including on the basis of agreements where access to such data and services and their exchange and use are necessary for the performance of public functions of bodies that may have an environmental impact. The Bill also refines the texts relating to the content requirements for the metadata for spatial data sets with regard to the identification of the entities responsible for the creation, management, maintenance and dissemination of these arrays. The provisions relating to spatial data services are revised and supplemented. A number of requirements have been set for the provision of these services, and they must be easy to use and take into account the relevant requirements of consumers. The bill also provides mechanisms for coordination between different levels of management, the participation of individuals interested in the use of their spatial information infrastructures. During the presentation of the Bill, representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications pointed out to the members of the Commission that the adoption of the Bill was intended to increase the quality of spatial information: created, collected, maintained and distributed in accordance with the terms of the Law on Access to Space Data. As another main objective of the Bill, the improvement of coordination between users, providers of spatial data and value-added services and persons who mediate in the provision of spatial data sets and services for such data was also indicated. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly 13 votes to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Access to Space Data, No 502-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u97	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like a word? I don't see anyone who wants to. I am opening the debate on statements on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Access to Space Data. Is there anyone who would like to speak? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Space Data with the Importer Council of Ministers. Vote 89 MPs: 78, none, abstention 11. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Space Data was adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE COUNTERPARTY COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY [[importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27 October 2014; Volen Siderov and a group of MPs 27 October 2014; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs 27 October 2014; the Council of Ministers, 9 December 2014; Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, 19 December 2014; Petar Slavov, 5 January 2015]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u98	The reports on these bills are presented. Mr. Danail Kirilov will brief us on the reports on the six bills prepared by the leading Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ......................................)..................................................................... for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-13, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October In accordance with Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-24, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-26, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2014; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014; and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-1, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov on 5 January 2015. At its meeting on 21 January 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the bills which I have just referred to. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mrs. Katya Hadzhieva, expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities. Under the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, No 454-01-13, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs, opinions were received in the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of Cassation. On behalf of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prosecutor General expresses a negative opinion on the bill, which is justified by its failure to comply with the right to life regulated in art. 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as a fundamental right of the human personality, as well as with the commitments of the state under international acts and acts of the European Union (Art. 6, para. 1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; art. 2 paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms; and art. 2, p. 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the European Union). The Prosecutor General points out that the inevitable defence does not constitute a right of unlimited involvement of the assailant, in which sense is also Decision No 19 of the Constitutional Court of 1997, declaring the provisions extending the scope of the inevitable defence to unconstitutional. According to the Ministry of Justice, the framework of the Institute of Inescapable Defense in our legislation is clear and sufficient and there is no need for legislative amendments. The Supreme Court of Cassation expressed a negative opinion on the submitted Bill, arguing that the proposed change would lead to an imbalance of the two legally protected interests of the defender and of the attacker. Under the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, No 454-01-24, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs, opinions were received in the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of Cassation. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria maintains its negative opinion, expressed by the bill in the same sense, submitted to the 40th and second National Assembly. The opinion is based on the non-compliance of the Bill with the basic beginning of equality of all people in dignity and rights, proclaimed in art. 6, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the creation of conditions for discrimination on a protected basis (sexual orientation). The opinion points to a contradiction of the submitted Bill with the constitutionally proclaimed rights of citizens under art. 39, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is also a discrepancy with the commitments made by the State under international acts and acts of the European Union (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the European Union). The Ministry of Justice takes the view that the adoption of such a proposed text would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and domestic legislation, as well as to international treaties and common European law. According to the Supreme Court of Cassation, the proposed text is contrary to the right to privacy, the right to free association, the right to express its own opinion and the right to participate in rallies and demonstrations and its acceptance would lead to discrimination based on sexual orientation. The opinion indicates that the proposal does not comply with the current regulations and international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska and a group of MPs, and the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-1, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov, an opinion was received in the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Ministry of Interior, which expresses support for the two laws. According to the Ministry of Interior, the provision in the first of the two bills of higher sanctions under the qualifying circumstances under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. Art. 343b and Art. 343b 343c of the Criminal Code aims to strengthen the preventive effect and achieve greater adequacy of the punishment against the public danger of the act and its consequences. For an illustration of the serious consequences resulting from road accidents, a reference was attached containing detailed data on the number and type of traffic accidents and the number of people killed and injured in 2012, 2013 and 2014. With regard to the second Bill, which provides for the inclusion of new qualifying circumstances in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 of the Criminal Code, the Ministry of Interior takes the view that the proposed amendments take into account the high public danger of the act and are aimed at achieving the objectives of the punishment under art. 36 of the penal code. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-13, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014, was presented by Mr. Ilian Todorov. The bill provides for an extension of the scope of the inevitable defence. Mr. Todorov justified the submitted proposal with the need to ensure adequate protection of persons under the dynamic and extremely complicated criminogenic situation in the country and pointed out that vague and thrifty wordings in the Law pose a danger of prosecution for individuals who have defended their own or public interest, but this resulted in an injurious result for the assailant who acted illegally. According to importers, this requires an extension of the scope of the Institute of Inescapable Defence, including in cases of previously taken measures to protect against a possible attack, most often by means of technical means. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-24, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Ilian Todorov. The bill provides for the creation of a new composition of a crime to criminalise the public manifesting of homosexual orientation or belonging through organization or participation in rallies, marches and parades, or through the media for mass information and the Internet. Mr. Todorov justified the proposed proposal with the need to protect traditional Bulgarian values, traditional for our country family model and morality, as well as the protection of civil peace and public safety. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-26, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr Chetin Kazak. The bill provides for the suspension of the statute of limitations for prosecution and the execution of the penalty in respect of a number of crimes described by chapters and sections which were committed for political reasons by persons associated with the communist regime after 9 September 1944, including those related to the so-called "renaissance process'. Mr. Kazak pointed out that the proposal aims to bring justice to an end and to bring all the victims of these crimes to justice. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers, was presented by the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov. The bill includes four groups of proposals for amendments and additions. The first group relates to the transposition of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the fight against sexual violence and the sexual exploitation of children, as well as child pornography and replacing Council Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA, the period for the introduction of which expired on 18 December 2013. The second group of proposals aims at implementing a recommendation of the Committee of Experts to assess measures against money laundering and terrorist financing (MONIVAL) to the Council of Europe to bring national legislation into line with international standards on the crime of terrorism. The third group of proposals is related to bringing the Criminal Code into line with the Additional Protocol to the Criminal Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption, and the fourth follows from the initiation of infringement procedure No 2012/285, according to the European Commission's description of failure by the Republic of Bulgaria to comply with art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. The bill provides for an increase in the amount of the punishment for the crimes under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. Art. 343b and Art. 343b 343c of the Penal Code, and in some of the hypotheses and the imposition of the penalty. Mr. Lazarov justified the need to increase sanctions in the case of qualifying circumstances with the inability for the currently envisaged lower penalties to play a preventive role in reducing the growth of these crimes, which have extremely severe consequences. The dramatic increase in the growth of these crimes and the pursuit of the effectiveness of criminal policy impose the need for legislative intervention in order to ensure prevention. The bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-1, submitted by Petar Slavov, was presented by the importer. The bill provides for supplementing the provision of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 with new qualifying circumstances, thereby regulating more severe punishment for acts under art. 342 of the Penal Code, which are carried out on areas intended solely for pedestrians or parks, gardens and playgrounds in settlements where motor vehicles are not allowed to move. Mr. Slavov motivates the submitted proposal with the need to bring punishment in these cases in accordance with the public danger of the act and to ensure preventive effect, given the frequent incidents with pedestrians in the territory of pedestrian zones, parks, gardens and playgrounds. People's representatives Filip Popov, Dimitar Lazarov, Yavor Notev, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Dimitar Delchev and Hristian Mitev took part in the discussion of the bills. Mr. Philip Popov noted that he would refrain from supporting the Bill submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov because of the falling into case studies, which is not a good legislative technique. With regard to the Bill submitted by the National Representative Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, he expressed his view that the increase in sanctions would not in itself have a preventive effect to limit these accidents. Mr. Popov noted that the proposed text in the Draft Law, submitted by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, has no retroactive effect, such is unacceptable, which is why he will not support it. In support of the Bill submitted by the National Representative Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov noted the terrifying statistics on road accidents and gave examples of the inefficiency of the currently envisaged penalties. In support of the bills submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, Mr. Yavor Notev noted that they concern socially significant problems which have become very ill and require a decisive response, and that the proposals are in line with European practices. In view of the worrying situation in relation to road accidents and the need for adequate response, Mr. Notev expressed support for the bill submitted by the National Representative Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, paying attention to the fact that the penalties provided for the deliberately committed acts which should be higher than those of the unwary should be complied with accordingly. With regard to the bill submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov, Mr. Notev noted that the casual approach is not good, the listing will never be comprehensive and the legal technical proposal should be corrected. In support of the bill he submitted, the national representative Petar Slavov drew attention to the fact that part of the pedestrian zones are streets and even a specific case of death of a child requires consideration of the necessary measures, including legislative change. People's representative Emil Dimitrov justified his doubts about the effectiveness of taking the case-based approach. Regarding the bill submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs aimed at expanding the scope of the inevitable defence, Mr. Dimitar Delchev noted the inability to support the same because of the existence of vague wordings, while focusing on the need to look for the best way to solve the existing problem of attacks. Regarding the draft legislation tabled by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, he noted that the exclusion of the limitation creates a state of legal uncertainty, and regarding the draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers stated that it generally supports it, but there are some texts that would create problems in law enforcement and should be corrected. Regarding the draft proposed by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, aimed at extending the scope of the inevitable defence, Mr. Christian Mitev noted that there is no doubt that a change in this direction is necessary, but this should be done after a broad discussion and in compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision in order not to prejudice other rights. On the second, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov, Bill, Mr. Mitev expressed the opinion that penal repression is a very extreme measure. Regarding the Bill submitted by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, he expressed his opinion that the Institute of limitation should not be changed with motives which are rather political. Mr. Mitev expressed support for the Draft Law submitted by the Council of Ministers for both legislations related to road accidents, noting the need for precision. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 4 votes........... and 13 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 1 vote............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In accordance with - with 9 votes....... 6 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers to support the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 09 December 2014; - with 14 votes for the Council, without the Criminal Code, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014; - with 11 votes.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov, for the Stoic reading of the report within almost 25 minutes. We'll continue with the next report. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am doing a procedure for direct broadcasting of the debates and the possible vote on this item on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u102	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov, for the offer. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Alexandrov's proposal to broadcast the debate on the current point on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Dear colleagues, please vote. Did everyone vote? Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 74 MPs: 27, against 33, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] You didn't get a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing a re-voting procedure, as there were more movements in the House as soon as you said to end the vote. I think there were colleagues who didn't vote. [[The National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov enters the Chamber.]] Here, Mr. Karakachanov is an example. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u104	That's right, Mr. Alexandrov. Please re-vote the proposal to broadcast the point on national media. Vote 87 MPs: 37 against 35, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Who will report from the Commission? [[(Replys:) In summary! In summary!]] The note is correct. Please, in summary. The Rules allow the following reports to be summarised.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its regular meeting held on 17 December 2014, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2014. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Petko Petkov. According to the importer, the aim of the above-mentioned draft amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is to introduce into national law the provisions of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the fight against sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography whose transposition period was 18 December 2013. In the course of the discussion, the MPs expressed the need to refine some of the texts, especially those identified as discriminatory by gender. In relation to these observations, importers have assured that these provisions will be governed by the forthcoming overall change of the state penal concept under this section. At the end of the discussion, the members of the Commission agreed on the need to adopt the proposed legislative amendments, given the importance of the priority for our country of the issue of the introduction into national legislation of Directive 2011/92/EU. On the basis of the discussion, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u106	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Karadzhov, please let us know the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 January 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Code was discussed, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Antonov, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Public Order Protection and Control of the Road Movement at the General Directorate of the Security Police at the Ministry of Interior. The bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ivan Valkov. According to importers, the main objective of the bill is to take adequate measures to limit the adverse effects caused by serious road accidents, as well as to achieve a preventive effect and to make the punishment more appropriate to the outcome of its act and public danger. During the presentation of the bill, importers expressed their opinion that the penalties provided for in the current Penal Code on the acts under art. Art. 343b and Art. 343b 343c did not play their preventive role, which is why it is envisaged to increase the penalty for driving a motor vehicle after the use of alcohol or narcotics, or when driving without the relevant driving licence. Despite the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the trend for increasing victims of such accidents has been clearly outlined in the last year and, therefore, serious legislative measures need to be taken. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications received an opinion from the Ministry of Interior in support of the Bill. During the debates on the Bill, the representatives of the Ministry of Interior paid attention to the members of the committee that the victims of road accidents in the country have increased significantly, with the main reasons for this being the use of alcohol and drugs. On the basis of the debates and opinions held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a draft amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. We are continuing with the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. Today you represent the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2014. At a meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, and Alexander Stefanov, Head of the Department of Justice, Normality and Projects at the Ministry of Justice. The bill with importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Petkov Deputy Minister of Justice. The bill includes four groups of proposals for amendments and additions. - The first group relates to the transposition of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the fight against sexual violence and the sexual exploitation of children, as well as to child pornography and replacing Council Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA, the period for the introduction of which expired on 18 December 2013. - The second group of proposals aims to implement a recommendation of the Committee of Experts to assess measures against money laundering and terrorist financing (MONIVAL) to the Council of Europe, to bring national legislation into line with international standards on the criminal offence...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - The third group of proposals is related to bringing the Penal Code into line with the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Criminal Convention on Corruption. - The fourth group of proposals derives from the initiated infringement procedure No 2012/205 under the description of the European Commission in relation to non-compliance by the Republic of Bulgaria of art. 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. No State funding is required to make the proposed changes to the Criminal Code. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. It was explained that the European Commission considers it inappropriate and disproportionate in terms of public interest the criminal penalties and confiscation of property supported by the Bulgarian authorities under art. 251 of the Criminal Code to all cases of non-compliance with the obligation to declare, including where this is also happening at the internal borders of the European Union, as well as that the term used is particularly large for the subject of the crime in the current article. 251 of the Penal Code is a concept which is not defined in the law and thus creates legal uncertainty. In the Penal Code there is also a legal definition of the concept of Big Sizes. The contents of the latter have so far been derived from the judgment of the General Assembly of the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which has been applied for years. In view of this: § 17 of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code proposes an amendment to art. 251, para. 1, incriminating only the undeclaredness of the country's border when the country is an external border of the European Union. Thus, in the event of non-compliance with the regime for declaring the internal borders of the European Union, only an administrative sanction (by currency law) will be imposed, but not criminal law combined with confiscation. With § 2, t. 3 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code shall be created accordingly. 30 "Big sized sizes", etc. 31 "Specially large sized" in art. 93 of the General Part of the Penal Code. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee have expressed their principled support for such proposals as the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly with 12 votes for the Council to support in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. This is how we presented the reports to the committees. We move on to the presentation of the bills on behalf of their importers. The first bill was dated October 27, 2014 by Mr. Volen Siderov and a group of MPs with No 450-01-114. It will be presented on behalf of the importers by Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u111	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The proposal we are making consists of one main thing - which publicly manifests its or other homosexual orientation or belonging through organization or participation in rallies, marches and parades or through the media and the Internet - is punishable by imprisonment from one to five years and a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. I will also brief you on the motives of what we have made. Under dictation from outside different gay organizations and lobby groups each year plan to conduct their gay parades in Bulgaria. This foreign to our national traditions and morals, a depraved phenomenon took place for the first time in 2008 and since then, it has been held without adequate opposition from the state institutions. Each year before and during the so-called attacks on gay rights, the Bulgarian society is deeply scandalized by the behavior of the organizers and participants in it, who demonstrate uncovered debauchery, sexual perversion and moral disloyalty on the streets. Against this background, no less worries arise and the ideas that gay activists promote in the public domain as legalization of marriages between same-sex couples and adoption of children of the same. During all these years, since 2008, a number of civil associations, patriotic organizations, parental unions, as well as the Bulgarian Orthodox Church have expressed their sharp reaction to this phenomenon and have warned about the dangers it hides. Different information campaigns and other events have been made that have received support from the whole society, and last year a petition against the prepared gay parade, which collected the signatures of tens of thousands of citizens. It is important to mention that the tradition of this type of anti-social acts dates back to June 28, 1969, when the so-called St. Nicholas riots erupted in the New York district of Greenwich Village. These are a series of violent clashes between homosexuals and New York policemen that last for several days and end with dozens of injured security officers. Stonewall riots are the event that inspires the organizers of the gay parade in question both abroad and in our country, from which they draw a kind of historical legitimization. All this leads us to believe that this manifestation, as well as its like, is not just a danger to traditional Bulgarian values and attacks against public morality, but also constitutes a public incitement to vandalism and anti-social actions. Through the proposed amendment, we believe that it meets the public expectations for protecting our country's traditional family model and morality, as well as for protecting civil peace and public safety. Dear colleagues, I have read the prosecution's report of the Ministry of Justice and I really do not know whether to cry or laugh. I'm telling you this very frankly. These people are either illiterate or simply mislead the entire Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u112	Mr. Todorov, you will have the opportunity to comment when the debates are opened. Now just present your bill because it has a total of six bills. Then the debate will begin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u113	Okay. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u114	Thank you. Mr. Karadjov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make a procedural proposal: on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to extend by seven days the deadline for proposals for amendments and additions to the bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u116	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on this bill. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We should hear on behalf of the importers Mr. Siderov and a group of MPs, the reasons under Law No 454 01 24. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u117	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I will present to your attention the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code with its motives. In fact, with this proposal, we want to make sure that every Bulgarian citizen can defend his property in an adequate way. This is what we want to achieve by changing the Penal Code, art. 12, para. 3. It should be amended as follows: "There is no breach of the limits of the inevitable defence if harm is caused to the assailant by the defender within the boundaries of the property or property he was defending or in which he was defending himself or third parties from the attack, as well as in cases where, within the boundaries of the property or property, the person has taken advance measures against the possible attack which led to the harmful result for the attacker.' As you know, this topic excites Bulgarian society. That is why we have introduced this change to respond to this call of the Bulgarian people. You know that in recent years, and we can summarize even the years of transition, it has happened that domestic crime, as many of you call it, we prefer to name it by its real name: It happens that anyone who decides to attack, to go into property, to rob, to steal something, is simply unobtrusive. He goes in, he takes, and then he goes after him. Every Bulgarian citizen has the right to defend himself, his dignity, his property, his loved ones. During an election campaign, when you meet with the voters, you must also be asked this question. Let us be able to defend ourselves adequately against those who attack us! For example, for the village of Mechka, Plevensko, you know that this village became a name for the thefts that are being done there. When we go and continue to keep in touch with the public in this village, the people there complain that there are nights where they get robbed twice a night. They feel completely unprotected. All attempts to have police, to have video cameras installed, they just don't work. You know to open a clamp in Plevensko, when Minister Petkov was a minister, and he could not cope in his own constituency with this crime. You know, over the years, there have been citizens who have taken their own protection into their own hands. The case of iconographer Yordan Opitz, who had shot an assailant, entered his property. Yeah, you shot him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u118	He shot him in the street.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u119	If you ask me, he did the right thing. In the United States of America, the country with liberal democracy, which everyone points out as an example of how well things were being done there, how democracy is working there... [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Don't yell at me from the hall, please! The United States of America is making reports on which rights are respected and which are not respected. There, in the United States of America, this exists. Whoever enters your property, you can do whatever you think is right, assessing whether he has a job there or not, whether he will kill you, whether he will steal and so on. That is why we suggest that this will happen in Bulgaria, using the irony I say it with the first American experience. Some of you would say that the Constitutional Court has had its own decision since 1997. I assure you that when we wrote these amendments to the Penal Code, we fully complied with this decision of the Constitutional Court. We've got it all figured out! If there are lawyers from you who wish, during the debates, to come here and point out their arguments in the direction that this does not respond to such a decision. However, I am sure that Mr. Notev will respond properly and refute these arguments. We've dealt with this decision. There's no point in talking here. This technique is often used. Let us put this issue in a broad public debate. The public debate, again, I recall, over the years there has been one for the Opitz case, and before that there were old people who made their fence run electricity to protect at least what they had and which has not yet been stolen from them. It is our duty to give these people this opportunity so that they can defend themselves adequately. Something else, when the assailant, when this thief knows that there is such a possibility that the law allows you to defend yourself and use weapons and whatever you can, but in an adequate way, then the criminal will think a lot about whether to go in to rob once again a house. Why does everyone bow when they see each other in Japan? Because there were years in which almost everyone carried a sword. And so they built mutual trust and respect for each other. This is what we want to do with these changes to allow the Bulgarian citizen to feel master in his own home. That's what we want to do. My request to you is to accept this. I assure you, it is in line with the Constitutional Court, and let us also respect the wishes of our constituents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u120	Thank you. We will hear the presentation of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 454-01-26, submitted by Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill we have tabled echoed one to one, word for word the final text, which was adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the previous National Assembly and which was discussed even in plenary. Unfortunately, he could not reach the vote, as the National Assembly was disbanded. In any case, it is a text which has already been reviewed several times in terms of its legal technical durability. This is a text which has been discussed several times in the Committee on Legal Affairs. What's this about? We are talking about an idea that is not only the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, it is an idea launched by representatives of other political forces, particularly the right, the Union to the democratic forces. I will not hide that the main inspiration for this kind of idea is the former MP from the Union of Democratic Forces Lachezar Toshev, who at previous national meetings has introduced similar laws. For us, in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this Bill is particularly important, as it aims to prevent the case of the so-called rebirth process to be covered by statute of limitations, as unfortunately, has already been announced that it has been terminated by statute of limitations and the so-called case against camps. Unfortunately, because of the sluggishness, because of the procedural requirements imposed during the years by the Bulgarian court, because of the inexecutable mandatory prescriptions and instructions that the court has given to the prosecution over the years, neither the case for the camps, nor the case for the so-called "renaissance process', nor any other case relating to the crimes committed by the so-called Communist regime, were able to reach their finale and receive retribution of all the victims of these crimes. The arguments put forward as contesting our argument do not have their legal basis. Neither in the Constitution nor in any other internationally adopted legal act shall the legislator be prohibited from resurrecting an already expired statute of limitations for crimes which have been committed and at the time of their execution. There is an absolute prohibition, adopted also in international law, to classify and prosecute as crimes and acts which, at the time they were committed, were such, that is to say, there is no retroactivity of criminal law to acts which were not crimes when committed. Nowhere, however, is there a prohibition to resurrect an expired statute of limitations for acts which were criminal offences, but which, unfortunately, during the period in which they could have been prosecuted, for one reason or another, the procedure has not been finalised and the expiry of that limitation has been allowed. Unfortunately, the Bulgarian legislator has so far done nothing to resurrect this statute of limitations or prolong it for this type of crime. Therefore, the victims of the communist regime all these years, of the crimes of the communist regime, remained undefended. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we hold the guilty at last, or at least those who are still alive, to finally be brought to justice. The culprits, the initiators, the inspirers of the so-called "renaissance process" are clearly mentioned in the so-called "Dello No 1" which was initiated in 1990, which after many years and delays, the transfer of the ball from one court to another, from one prosecution to another, is ultimately at a complete impasse because of, as I said, the issuing of absolutely inexecutable instructions to the court to question all the victims suffering from the revival process. Only on this basis are we already on the threshold of the expiry of the absolute limitation period in this case and in other cases. I appeal to all MPs from all over the political spectrum who would really share our desire, our will to punish the crimes committed by the communist regime sooner or later. This position in the last parliament was shared by colleagues from GERB. I hope that this position will also be shared by other political forces. Unfortunately, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, this bill was not supported by representatives of the Reformation bloc. I am astonished and I hope that the representatives of this political force will correct their behaviour and, here in plenary, support this bill. As I said, this bill, part of it, the ideas in it have been shared and even materialized in specific legislative initiatives, namely by a representative of the Union of Democratic Forces. For us, it is inexplicable behavior by right-wing representatives who do not support such a bill. I refer once again to the conscience of all Members of the National Assembly. We rely on your support. If there are any observations of a legal and technical nature, of course, we are ready to hear them. Once again, this Bill has been examined for quite a long time, refined in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the last Parliament, so it is good enough and deserves to be supported by a first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u122	The presentation of the Criminal Code is coming up, No 402-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 December 2014. Is there anyone who can present it on behalf of the Council of Ministers? I won't. Draft Law No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014. I don't see Mr. Lazarov. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Draft Law No 554-01-1, submitted by Petar Slavov on 5 January 2015. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u123	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will do my best to be much shorter than the non-spoken ones. I will not repeat what we have also heard in the Commission's opinion, which has been very detailed and has, in fact, drawn attention to the elements of unconstitutionality in some of the proposals and to the contradiction with a number of rules of international law, which we clearly cannot support. With regard to the bill which I have tabled and which we will support from the Reformation bloc, I take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the Patriotic Front and from GERB, who also supported, and I also take this opportunity to say that I will respect their reasonable remarks that they have put forward. Between the two readings, we can really correct the text. It concerns the crimes committed by the vehicle, that is, when a pedestrian or child is pushed, or at all, do not let God take place such situations on areas that are intended only for pedestrians, such as the so-called pedestrian zones, or if it happens in a park or in a children's garden. Colleagues, I am paying attention to you. I think that 2012 changes were made, which then initiated colleagues from GERB. A qualified composition was included in this order for similar acts carried out on a pedestrian path. As we can see, this is starting to produce results, and now the drivers are conforming to pedestrians on pedestrian paths and are really stopping. So obviously there are ways these norms can work. What we are proposing is, in the same order, that this qualified composition be sanctioned more severely than in general order and similar accidents where there has been bodily harm or, God forbid, there has been a victim in pedestrian zones, parks, gardens or playgrounds. That is, in places where there should be no vehicles at all and, if they are at all, they create a very high level of public danger, as people simply do not expect there to be vehicles and are not even aware of the need to protect themselves from them. This is also the main meaning of the proposed changes. We very much hope that it will give a strong preventive effect and all of us as drivers, all drivers of vehicles do not allow themselves to drive cars across pedestrian zones, not to park them in playgrounds and gardens, because, as you know, children do not have brakes. I can't imagine for myself any driver wanting to intentionally push a child, but very often in these areas they just don't see them and, unfortunately, it also comes to very unpleasant incidents. So it is best that there are no vehicles, as it is written in the Road Traffic Act, by the way, but, unfortunately, it is not respected. Let's write it down here as a qualified composition and hope it gives the desired result. Finally, regarding case studies, which was commented here several times, that there was a case studies and it was not a good legislative technique. Colleagues on the left, I agree. There must be a better legislative technique to formulate this and we can even do it together between the two readings. But in this case, the end result is important. If this legislative change creates the desired result and there will really be no more accidents in these places at pedestrian zones, at playgrounds and so on, I suggest that we accept it and support it simply for the sake of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u124	Thank you. We will now hear a presentation of Law No 454-01-71, submitted by Tsacheva and a group of MPs. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov will introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that, in the previous term of the National Assembly, the 40th and first National Assembly, in the period 2009 - 2013 were initiated, legislative changes were tabled and adopted, with which we can account for a very good result, namely of the 1200 people who died in 2008, those who died in 2013 were less than 600 people. There is a 50% drop thanks to the legislative changes that were adopted then. These legislative changes, which Mrs Tsacheva and other colleagues, including myself, are currently proposing, are aimed at improving, even better impact and preventive measures, and better punishing guilty persons who have committed road accidents in the use of alcohol, drugs and so on. Until now, in some of the changes we have made, a lower limit for punishment has been introduced. This thing was gone so far, and there was an opportunity for intruders to get away with the strictness of the law, on the one hand. This is for offenders who have used alcohol or tranquilizers, as well as the penalties for intruders, who, for example, after their driving licence has been revoked, continue to drive motor vehicles without having the right to do so. I hope this Bill will be supported by everyone. There are positive opinions from the institutions in the country. I say again, this bill will bring even better implementation of measures whose severity must lead to an even greater reduction in road casualties. Unfortunately, last year, road victims for the first time in years, as I say, have an increase. This was due to some measures that were taken by state authorities, which canceled the electronic ticket and so on. The package of measures is in front of us right now. That's part of it. We're making changes to other laws. The goal is one: to reduce casualties on the roads. I therefore hope that you will all support the bill we have tabled. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u126	The bills are presented. I'm opening the debates on the six bills in total. Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u127	Madam President, honourable Members, as there are about 12 minutes left. until the end of the plenary day, and yet we are talking about six bills of utmost importance for the Bulgarian society, I suggest that we leave the talks on these topics for the first item on the agenda on tomorrow. I'm proposing it for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u128	There is a reason in this proposal, colleagues. I put to the vote the motion to postpone the debate on tomorrow's plenary day, 9:00. They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Now, in the few minutes left to the end of today's plenary day, we move on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANK NON-CONSTITUTION. Before that, we will hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u129	Madam President, colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 454-01-47, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 19 November 2014. At a meeting held on 5 February 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Tsvetanka Mihailova The bill was presented by the MP Petar Slavov. The bill aims to ensure greater transparency, control and protection of public interest in the following areas: 1. Part of the powers of the Chair of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks such as: the approval of the budget for the costs of insolvency proceedings and the programme for the cashing of the bank's assets; the lodging of cancellations; the granting of prior authorisation to the trade union to carry out extraordinary expenses shall be carried out by the Management Board of the Fund. The approval of the budget and of the programme shall be acts of general and long-term importance and shall exceed the operational administration, which shall be the function of the Chair of the Management Board. The public's interest in the work of the Fund will be extremely high, which is why collective discussion, publicity and decision-making on the above issues will minimize the risks of single decision making. 2. Greater accountability and publicity are envisaged for a number of control functions of the Fund, including by providing the information it receives to the competent committee in the National Assembly. 3. With a view to greater publicity and transparency of the activities of the Fund and its Board of Directors, the Bank Deposit Guarantee Act proposes to make changes to the management structure of the Fund, namely: one of the two members of the Management Board, who are currently appointed jointly by the President and the Vice-President of the Fund, to be elected by the National Assembly. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:................................. 9 MPs................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 454-01-47, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 19 November 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Dimitrov will present the bill on behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u131	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act is about more publicity and transparency in the work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Especially after the situation, the President of the Fund should not make important decisions on his own. We are introducing a regime in which the Governing Council, as a college body, must together vote and commit itself to decisions that concern the work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. In addition, we have introduced one principle: the reports the Fund makes to come to the budget committee in Parliament for information of the MPs. This is a key issue because, ladies and gentlemen, it appears that the National Assembly is receiving very little information about the work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I checked cases of bankrupt banks years ago with a revoked license. The public information is extremely scarce, and what happens as a report by the Deposit Guarantee Fund only goes to the Bulgarian National Bank. Even if the initial idea of the Reformation Block was to announce the Fund's reports on the websites of the Internet Deposit Guarantee Fund, i.e. to have Internet access and full transparency of decisions. However, due to the existence of business and professional secrecy, we felt that this proposal would be hindered and therefore we decided that the option that could be worked is that the budget committee receive a copy of these reports for information. Notice, it will not discuss them, there will be no votes on these reports, but any MP, whether he is a member of the Budget Committee or interested in the subject, will be able to read at any moment on a monthly basis what this Fund is doing in relation to CCB and other cases. Honourable Members, since Parliament has given such a large loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, it is appropriate to have a commitment at another level to monitor the work of this institution. Let us be able to react on a monthly basis if we see that the expectations that parliament has for active work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, for control functions on its part and so on, are they fulfilled according to what Parliament has as expectations. In this regard, we propose that Parliament elect one such representative to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. At the moment you know that the composition of the Fund is elected by a decision of the Council of Ministers, BNB, the Association of Commercial Banks and then two members with a joint decision. We propose that the Bulgarian Parliament broadcast one of its representatives. This makes perfect sense, at the very least because, by giving a huge government loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, it is right for the Bulgarian Parliament to send a representative who, on a regular basis, will then be accountable to the Budget Commission for the work done, for the development, including on the question of what is going on with KTB, on how and when the State loan will be repaid in whole or in part. That is, we are introducing much more transparency and much more control in the work of guaranteeing deposits. I would like to thank the Budget Committee, which, by a serious majority, supported these transparency and accountability measures. I believe that there is already a tradition of this ruling majority to support and introduce such accountability and transparency. We started with the Court of Auditors the example was good, today we will continue with the SEWRC of the Energy Commission, and here are proposed similar texts for the Deposit Guarantee Fund, with which such public-law organizations are really becoming much more accountable and much more transparent for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-19.u132	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Debates on this bill will also be in tomorrow's plenary session, as parliamentary control announcements are pending on February 20, 2015, Friday, at 11:00. We begin with debates on the questions of the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the renovation of residential buildings. Answers to questions and questions from MPs to cabinet members follow. 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question by the MP Maya Manolova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Korman Ismailov, and Jaihan Ibryamov and one question from the MP Petar Slavov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer one question from the MP Ilian Todorov. 4. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer five questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Boris Yachev and Christian Mitev, Georgi Andonov, Velizar Enchev, and Martin Dimitrov. 5. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer six questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Petar Slavov, Volen Siderov, Miho Mihov, Hristo Gadzhev, and Angel Naydenov. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer a question from the National Representative Borislav Velikov. 7. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. 8. Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov [[two questions]] , and Jevdet Chakarov. 9. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer three questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Emil Raynov, and Velizar Enchev. 10. Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski will answer four questions from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Bojinov [[two questions]] , Hristo Gazhev and Alexander Nenkov. 11. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov and Desislav Chukolov. 12. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 6 questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Mihail Mikov, Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski General, Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov, Maya Manolova, and Cornelia Ninova. 13. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer six questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Dimitar Shishkov, Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] , Jayhan Ibryamov, and Georgi Kadiev. 14. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MP Borislav Iglev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to four questions from the MPs Petar Petrov, Kalina Balabanova, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, and Lyubomir Vladimirov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, two questions, and Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Emil Raynov, and Galya Georgieva, Irena Kotseva and Petar Bekov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to three questions from the MPs Emil Raynov, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, and Kristian Vigenin and Emil Raynov; - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev of four questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, Milen Mihov, Kalina Balabanova, and Kristian Vigenin and Mariana Boyadzhieva; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question written by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to three questions from the MPs Georgi Bozhinov and Stoyan Mirchev, Slavcho Binev, and Lyubomir Vladimirov; - the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, and Cornelia Marinova, and to a question with written answer from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MPs Maya Manolova and Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov; - a question from MP Maya Manolova to Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. There seems to be some mistake here, because Mrs. Manolova has a question for Mr. Borisov there is no way at the same time to ask and to be absent; - a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov to the Minister of Defence Nikolai Nenchev. In the absence of the country, Justice Minister Hristo Ivanov, Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova and Agriculture and Food Minister Desislava Taneva will not participate in the parliamentary control session. Due to a professional commitment with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will not participate. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
