ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Today's sitting should begin with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLIMATION OF THE LAW FOR CLOSING THE CHANGE OF CLIMATE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A second reading report from the Committee on Environment and Water has come in. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I will ask for a procedure.. Access to Mr. Pavel Gudzherov's room. Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mrs. Veneta Borikova.. Head of Department.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u3	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 135 MPs voted: 133, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. [[The National Representative Polina Karastoyanova wants the floor for a statement.]] Welcome to a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, Ms. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! DECLARATION of the Parliamentary Group of Coalition on the occasion of the Festival of Bulgarian Education and Culture The Word has its history, spirituality has its guardians. On 24 May the Bulgarian people paid tribute to speech, enlightenment and spirituality. On the festive day, under the sounds of church bells and school bells, the most sacred old days come to life and the first teachers rise again. In the ninth century some of the most important events in Bulgarian history took place. The people took the path of faith and followed the steps of the teachers. The holy brothers Cyril and Methodius have performed a great spiritual feat. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u5	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u6	And we, today's Bulgarians, continue to live in its light. In the ninth century, the alphabet was no ordinary instrument of literacy. It is a guide to God. The missionary journeys of Cyril and Methodius throughout Europe are a way to the hearts of men, to conquer the divine light from the lands of spiritual darkness. The two brothers are not just people of intelligence. They are warriors of Christ, missionaries, willing to take on all sorts of challenges and live at constant risk. There are no teachers without students. On May 24, we celebrate the dedication of the students and the followers. If Great Moravia is where the seed was planted, then Bulgaria is the field where it grew. The great Bulgarian kings Boris I Baptist and Simeon the Great knew something very important that lands obey by sword and souls are joined by word. Their policy is based on this knowledge. It was the Slavic word that ignited the flame of faith in the hearts of the Bulgarians. The flame of the Bulgarian Revival is also ignited by the power of the word. The inspired by the Bulgarian history Aton monk Paisius swings the bell of alarm and utters reproachful words to his compatriots: "Look around, look where you are and remember who you are!" To this day, the moments of spiritual ascension are the measures according to which we appreciate how mature the Bulgarian people are and how much they have grown. The building of the modern Bulgarian state is also laid on the foundations of the speech. It is consecrated by folk faith in literature and enlightenment. In the years of the construction of a new Bulgaria in 1892, Stoyan Mihajlovski wrote the memorable words of the Bulgarian all-school anthem known as "Go, people reborn." This hymn tells us that knowledge is a force that reverses the world and makes it different. Go, people resurrected, is an anthem, enthralled the faith and enthusiasm of a young nation. It bows to enlightenment as light, to culture - as building, to history - as rising. On every festive day, we address not only the pride of what has been done but also the current challenges. But glorious ancestors and great deeds cannot be an indulgence to the fluctuations and weaknesses of the present. Therefore, we should look very carefully at the fates of speech and the state of education and culture in today's Bulgaria. We must listen to the joyous school bells, but also to the silence of the hundreds of deserted school buildings. We should be proud of the success of the talented Bulgarian children, the achievements of science, but we should not be blind to the cracks in the system. Let us thank the teachers for their whole - souled work, but also keep reminding them that they are creating our collective future. The past is not fossilized. It is alive and plastic when there are people who can talk to it. Holiday May 24th enters as a light into our souls and pride in our hearts. Holiday May 24th strongly reminds us of our duty to the Covenant. Great teachers have this ability. They never take their eyes off us. Good to know! Happy Thanksgiving, dear colleagues! Happy holiday to all Bulgarians! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u8	Thank you, Madam President. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u9	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u10	Under § 1 and 2 there are no proposals for change. The Commission shall support the text of the importer. I say we vote 'em enbloc.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting for Anblok § 1 and 2 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u12	§ 3 "A proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 2 shall be added at the end of the data for tonnes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 3 in the version of the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the two import paragraphs supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u16	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 2 the words "plus rate" specified in "the rate" shall be replaced by "the percentage" determined pursuant to art. 1 out of.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u17	Statements? I won't. We vote § 6. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u19	We are voting on paragraphs 7 and 8. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u20	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 words which are required in relation to greenhouse gas emission permits shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u21	Statements? I won't. We vote § 9. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u22	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The information referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 and under art. 62, which became known to the competent authorities and their staff in relation to their activities under this Chapter, is a professional secret and cannot be disclosed except in the cases provided for in law. Professional secrecy does not constitute professional secrecy within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. They're creating an al. 4, 5, 6 and 7: The competent authorities and employees shall be obliged to keep professional secrecy, including after their dismissal, after their employment has ceased. (5) Information representing professional secrecy may only be used by competent authorities and staff in the performance of their functions. (6) Information representing professional secrecy may only be disclosed: 1. before the authorities of the court, the prosecution, the investigating authorities and the police authorities in criminal or administrative criminal proceedings; 2. of the State Agency under the terms and conditions laid down in a joint instruction, insofar as this is necessary for the performance of their functions; 3. as aggregated data in a way that does not allow individualisation of the persons to whom it relates; 4. of the European Commission. (7) The persons and bodies referred to in para. 6 are obliged to keep the confidentiality of the information received and to use it for the purposes for which it is provided, except where the competent authorities have expressly agreed to use it for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u23	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 10 in the version of the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u24	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova for the version of the paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: The greenhouse gas emissions from the entire life cycle of liquid fuels other than biofuels shall be included in the report under para. 1 according to the methodology under art. 64, para. 3. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u25	Statements? I won't. We vote § 11. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u26	The Commission proposes to create a new § 12. The text of the old § 12 which is by importer is as follows: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: For each tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent for which the operator has not surrendered allowances issued after 1 January 2013, the penalty under para. 1 multiplied by the European Consumer Price Index ratio for the current year and the European Consumer Price Index for 2013 published on the Eurostat website. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): One and two. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u27	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new § 12 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u28	The Commission proposes to create a new § 12... The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 12 and proposes to be rejected as per importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u29	Are there any speeches? The Commission proposes that § 12 by importer be rejected. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. They voted 102 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u30	Under Paragraph 13, there is a proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova, which the committee supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1, t. 22 words.................................................................... 2-5, t. the following point is inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 2. In § 2, para. 2 is created t. 12: ..12. Regulation (EU) No 421/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community with a view to implementing, by 2020, an international agreement implementing a single market-based global measure on international aviation emissions (OJ L 129/1 of 30 April 2014.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 13 in the Committee's version. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u32	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Cornelia Marinova, which the committee supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14: ................................................ The transitional and final provisions shall make the following additions: 1. Paragraph 3 creates para. 3, 4, 5 and 6: The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 49, para. 1 shall be entitled to ask the Executive Director of the EEA to issue allowances valid from and after 2013, in exchange for: 1. certified units of reduced emissions and ERUs that met the criteria for use within the ESTEs during the period 2008-2012, issued for emission reductions from and after 2013 by projects registered before 2013; 2. certified emission reduction units which met the criteria for use within the ESTEs during the period 2008-2012, issued for emission reductions from and after 2013 by new projects which started from and after 2013 in the least developed countries identified by the United Nations as the least developed on the basis of the low income indicators, weak human potential and high economic vulnerability. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The Executive Director of the EEA shall replace and issue allowances valid from and after 2013 and the period of replacement under point (c) of this paragraph. 2 shall be until 31 December 2020. (5) The requirements of art. Art. 35, 36, Art. 48, para. 1 shall not apply to: 1. aviation operators operating flights to and from airports located in countries outside the European Economic Area for each calendar year from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2016; 2. aviation operators operating flights between an airport located in an outermost region within the meaning of art. 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and an airport located in another region of the European Economic Area in each calendar year from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2016; 3. surrendered by 30 April 2015 allowances corresponding to verified emissions for 2013 from flights between airports located in countries of the European Economic Area and reported by 31 March 2015 verified emissions for 2013 for those flights. The European Economic Area shall include the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, the States bound by the European Union in 2013 and the outermost regions within the meaning of art. 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. (6) The requirements of art. 35, 36, 48 and 50 shall not apply to aviation operators with total annual emissions below 25 000 tonnes of CO2 which are considered to be verified if a small emission issuer tool under Commission Regulation (EU) No 606/2010 of 9 July 2010 approving a simplified instrument developed by the European Aviation Safety Organisation (Eurocontrol) has been used to assess fuel consumption by certain small emission aircraft operators (OJ L 175/25 of 10 July 2010) and filled in with data from its ETS support tool. 2. In § 19 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote § 14. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u34	There are no proposals under § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u35	There are no statements either. We vote § 15 by importer, and thus the Law will be considered adopted if this paragraph is also supported. They voted 99 MPs: 98 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u36	Thank you, Madam President, thank you, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u37	Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE EUROPEAN CONSERVATION FOR PROTECTION. The Committee on Legal Affairs has drawn up a second vote report. Mr. Kirilov, we expect you to present the texts on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report on the European Protection Order Act, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015 The European Protection Order Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u39	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal, in favour of the importer, for the name of the Law. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u40	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u41	We vote. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u42	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: "The Legacy of the Law" Art. 1. This law lays down the terms and conditions for: 1. recognition and enforcement of the European Protection Order in criminal cases issued in another Member State; 2. issue in the Republic of Bulgaria of a European order for protection in criminal matters and its dispatch for recognition and enforcement in another Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u43	Statements under art. 1? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Please keep your voice down in the hall! We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 1. Announce the result. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, there's no quorum yet. Dear MPs, there are problems with the quorum. Please vote. Announce the result. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a little longer. My fellow Members, there is a problem with the quorum. I'm not gonna make a third warning, I'm taking out the check list. [[Noise and lines. Communicating: "Search! "]] Announce the result. Vote 81 MPs: 77, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Article 2, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, please before we proceed with art. 2, admission procedure for Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u45	We are voting on the procedure for admission to this House. Voting mode. [[Noise and lines. Communicating: "Search! "]] One minute is the maximum time, fellow Members. [[Noise and lines.]] Announce the result. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. We are voting again on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Dimitrov, will you vote because we are waiting for your vote? There is no jurisdiction. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Announce the result. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Once again, fellow Members of the National Assembly, take your seats in the Chamber, there is a problem with the quorum. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 2 has a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: ??????????? Art. 2. (1) The European Protection Order shall be an act issued by a competent authority of a Member State on the basis of which a competent authority of another Member State takes appropriate measures or measures of protection under its national law to continue the protection of a person in its territory. (2) The European Protection Order shall be issued in accordance with the model set out in Annex 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements under art. Two? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 2. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u48	Article 3. Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: "Protection Site" Art. 3. (1) A European protection order shall be issued on the basis of a protection measure taken. (2) The protection measure shall include one or more of the following prohibitions or restrictions imposed on a person causing danger: 1. a prohibition to visit certain settlements, areas or certain sites where the protected person resides or visits; 2. ban or restriction of contacts in any form with the protected person, including by telephone, e-mail, fax or other means; 3. ban or limit the approach to the protected person at less than a certain distance. (3) Measure under para. 1 shall be taken in criminal proceedings in a Member State for the protection of a person suffering from a criminal offence directed against his or her life, bodily, mental or sexual Immunity, his personal freedom or dignity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u49	Thank you. Statements under art. 3? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 3. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u50	Article 4. Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. "Communication of information" Art. 4. By 31 January of each year, the courts of art. 5 and 13 send to the Ministry of Justice information on the number of received, recognised, requested, issued and sent European protection orders in the previous year. The Ministry of Justice summarizes and forwards the information to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements under art. Four? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 4. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u52	"Chapter 2 " Recognition and enforcement of a European Protection Order. Termination of measures laid down in the implementation of the European Protection Order. Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 2 be amended as follows: "Acknowledgment and enforcement of a European Protection Order issued in another Member State. Suspension of the implementation of protection measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u53	Thank you. Statements by the name of Chapter Two? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission proposal for the name of Chapter 2. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u54	Article 5. Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. "Competitor Authority" Art. 5. (1) The competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria to recognise a European Protection Order issued in a Member State shall be the district court of residence of the protected person. (2) Where the protected person is not resident in the territory of the country competent to recognise the European Protection Order is the Sofia City Court. (3) Where the European Protection Order has been sent to an authority which is not competent to recognise it, it shall send it to the competent court concerned and shall immediately inform the issuing State thereof in a manner allowing written record and authentication of the authenticity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u55	Thank you. Statements under art. Five? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 5. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u56	Article 6. Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: supposed to be used for the purposes of this Regulation. Art. 6. (1) On receipt of a European protection order by mail, e-mail, fax or otherwise allowing written record and authentication, the court shall initiate a recognition procedure and shall rule within three days. (2) The Court shall examine the case single-handedly in closed session. (3) The Court may request additional information from the competent authority of the issuing State by setting a time limit for receipt. The hearing shall be postponed until the expiry of that period. (4) The Court shall rule by order by which: 1. recognise the European Protection Order and lay down a protection measure provided for in the Bulgarian Law which is most consistent with the protection measure taken in the issuing State; the protection measure designated by the court cannot be more severe than the measure taken in the issuing State; 2. refuses to recognise and comply with the European Protection Order in the event of any of the grounds under art. 7. (5) The order of the court shall be final. (6) The Court shall inform the person causing danger, the competent authority of the issuing State and the protected person of the definition under para. 4 t. 1 as well as the possible consequences of the violation of the protection measure taken under the Bulgarian law. The address or other contact details of the protected person shall not be communicated to the person causing the danger unless such data is necessary for the implementation of the measure. (7) The Court shall immediately inform the competent authorities of the issuing State and the protected person of the refusal under para. 4 t. 2 and the basis for his judgment. The Court shall also inform the protected person of the possibility to request a protection measure under this law and of any applicable remedies provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements under art. Six? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 6. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u58	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. "Acceptances for refusal of recognition Art. 7. The Court may refuse to recognise a European Protection Order where: 1. the order is incomplete or incomplete has not been removed by the competent authority of the issuing State within the time limit set for that period; 2. the measure under the order is different from the restrictions and prohibitions under art. 3, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the measure under the order has been ordered in connection with an act that does not constitute a crime under the Bulgarian legislation; 4. the measure of the order has been ordered in connection with a crime which is amnesty under Bulgarian law and the case for it is tried on a Bulgarian court; 5. the person causing danger enjoys immunity, making it impossible to take a protection measure; 6. the criminal prosecution for the crime is paid off by limitation and the case for it is tried on a Bulgarian court; 7. recognition of the order would be contrary to the principle ne bis in idem; 8. the measure of the order is assigned to a person who, due to his age under the Bulgarian legislation, cannot be criminally responsible for the acts in respect of which the measure was ordered; 9. the measure of the order is related to a crime which, according to the Bulgarian legislation, is considered to be committed entirely or mainly in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u59	Thank you. Statements under art. Seven? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 7. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. REPORT DANIEL KIRILOV: The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version for art. 8. "Execution of a protection measure' Art. 8. (1) After recognition of the European Protection Order, the court shall send to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior on the residence of the protected person in the country a copy of the definition of execution. (2) The order shall be implemented immediately. (3) In the event of breach of the specified measure, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall immediately inform the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice. (4) The Court shall inform the competent authority of the issuing State or the State of supervision of any breach of the measure determined in accordance with the European Protection Order. The notification shall be made in writing in accordance with Annex No 2. (5) The notification under para. 4 shall be accompanied by a translation into the official language or one of the official languages of the issuing State or another official language of the European Union which it has laid down in a declaration to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u60	Thank you. Statements under art. Eight? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 8. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u61	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Actions in the course of amending the European Protection Order Art. 9. (1) Where the competent authority in the issuing State amends the European Protection Order, the court may amend the measure determined in accordance with a recognised European Protection Order notified to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. (2) The Court may refuse to amend the protection measure if it is different from the prohibitions or restrictions referred to in art. 3, para. 2, or if the information provided by the amended European Protection Order is incomplete or no additional information is provided within the period referred to in art. 6, para. 3. (3) In the cases under para. Art. 1 and 2 shall apply. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u62	Thank you. Statements under art. Nine? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 9. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u63	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Abort the implementation of a protection measure Art. 10. (1) The Court shall terminate the enforcement of the protection measure without delay after being informed by the competent authority of the issuing State of the revocation or withdrawal of the European Protection Order. (2) The Court may terminate the enforcement of the protection measure where: 1. information was received that the protected person does not reside or have left the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. the protection measure has expired; 3. The issuing State has sent to the Bulgarian State a judicial or other decision for probation after the European Protection Order has been recognised by the court under art. 5; 4. has established a definition under art. 9, para. 2. (3) Before termination of the enforcement of the protection measure in the cases under para. 2, p. 2, the court may request information from the competent authority of the issuing State concerning the need to continue the protection. (4) Upon termination of the implementation of the protection measure, the court shall notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. (5) Upon termination of the enforcement of the protection measure, the court shall immediately inform the competent authority of the issuing State and, where possible, the protected person.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u64	Thank you. Statements under art. Ten? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 10. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements under Articles 11 and 12 by importer? There aren't any. We are voting on the texts of art. Article 11 12 by importer supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u67	? Chapter Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes that the name of Chapter 3 be amended as follows: The issuing and sending of a European protection order by the Bulgarian Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u68	Thank you. Statements by the name of Chapter Three? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of Chapter Three. Voting mode. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u69	Under art. 13 supposed by the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: "Competitor Authority" Art. 13. (1) A competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria to issue a European Protection Order shall be the court competent to examine the case in which a protection measure has been taken under art. 67 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (2) When a probation measure is imposed under art. 42b, para. 3, p. 1 of the Criminal Code, competent to issue a European Protection Order, is the district court at its place of execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u70	Thank you. Statements under art. 13? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 13. Voting mode. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u71	Under art. A proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: "Signature of issue" Art. 14. (1) A European protection order may be issued at the request of the protected person or his guardian or guardian where the protected person intends to reside or already reside in the territory of another Member State. (2) The request for the issue of a European Protection Order may be made in the country or in the Member State under para. 1. (3) When the request is submitted to the court under art. 13, but competent to issue a European Protection Order is an authority in another Member State, the request shall be sent to it without delay. (4) Requests for the issue of a European Protection Order shall be filed in writing or orally at a hearing and shall contain details of the person who lodges it for the person causing the danger for the circumstances on which it is based, as well as an indication of the case in which a measure of protection has been taken or the probation measure imposed under art. 42b, para. 3, p. 1 of the Penal Code. (5) When issuing a European protection order, the court shall state the case in which the protection measure has been taken or the probation measure imposed under art. 42b, para. 3, p. 1 of the Criminal Code, take into account the need for protection and the duration of the stay of the person in the other Member State under para. 1. (6) Upon submission of the request under para. 1 no state fee shall be paid. (7) The Court shall examine the request for the issue of a European protection order single in open court, within three days of its submission, with the mandatory participation of the prosecutor and the protected person. (8) The person causing the danger shall be called when the protection measure has not been granted the right to be heard. The absence of the regularly called persons is not an obstacle to hearing the case. (9) The Court shall rule on the request by order which shall be declared at a hearing. (10) Where the court refuses to issue a European protection order, it shall notify the protected person of any applicable remedies provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u72	Thank you. Statements under art. 14? There aren't any. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 14. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u73	Under art. 15 supposed by the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: "Appeal" Art. 15. The order by which the court refuses to issue a European Protection Order may be appealed by the protected person within three days of its notification under Chapter Twenty-Second of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The appeal shall be lodged by the court issuing the order with a copy of the other party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u74	Thank you. Under art. 15 words? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 15. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u75	Under art. 16 supposed by the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: "Send the European Protection Order" Art. 16. (1) The court which issued the European Protection Order shall send it immediately to the competent authority of the Member State under art. 14, para. 1 by mail, e-mail, fax or otherwise allowing written record and authentication. (2) The European Protection Order shall be accompanied by a translation into the official or one of the official languages of the executing State or in another official language of the European Union which it has laid down in the declaration to the European Commission. (3) Where the court does not have information on the competent authority in the executing State, it shall request, including through the contact points of the European Judicial Network. (4) The court issuing the European Protection Order shall immediately provide information on the need to continue protection upon request by the competent authority of the executing State.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u76	Thank you. Statements under art. 16? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 16. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u77	Article 17? a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: ? Actions in the event of cancellation, cancellation or take-over of a new protection measure Art. 17. (1) In the event of the withdrawal or revocation of a measure taken to protect or in the case of a new measure taken, the European Protection Order may be repealed and a new one may be issued in accordance with art. 14. (2) The European Protection Order shall also be revoked in the event of a prison sentence imposed on the person causing danger. (3) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 the court shall immediately send the new European Protection Order and inform the competent authorities of the executing State thereof accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u78	Thank you. Statements under art. 17? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 17. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u80	Statements under art. 18 by importer? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 18 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u81	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: "Distribution" Art. 19. The costs of issuing and sending a European Protection Order shall be borne by the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u82	Thank you. Statements under art. 19? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 19. Vote 79 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u83	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u84	Statements by the name of the division? I won't. We vote on the name of the importing division supported by the Commission. I ask the Quaestors to invite the peoples to enter the Chamber. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u85	Paragraph 1? a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. A protected person is a natural person subject to protection resulting from a protection measure taken by the issuing State. 2. The person causing danger shall be a natural person subject to one or more of the prohibitions or restrictions set out in art. 3, para. 2. 3. The issuing Member State shall be the Member State in which a protection measure has been taken, which shall constitute the basis for issuing a European protection order. 4. The executing State shall be the Member State to which the European Protection Order for Recognition and Enforcement has been sent. 5. The Member State to which a judgment has been sent for recognition and enforcement within the meaning of art. 3 of the Law on Recognition, Enforcement and Sending of Judgments and Probation Decisions with a view to supervising probation measures and alternative sanctions. 6. "Member State" is a Member State of the European Union, except Denmark and Ireland.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u86	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u87	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u88	We're voting on the two paragraphs. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u89	"Transitional and final provisions." Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u90	We are voting for the name "Concluding provisions" and the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u91	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG...): 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: On a proposal from the prosecutor with the consent of the victim or at the request of the victim, the first instance court concerned may prohibit the defendant: 1. to approach the victim immediately; 2. contact the victim in any form, including by telephone, by e-mail or ordinary mail and fax; 3. to visit certain settlements, areas or sites where the victim resides or visits. (c) a new para shall be created. 2: The Court of Justice shall inform the victim of the possibility of issuing a European Protection Order. (d) The current para. 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 68a: Consequences of violation of the measures for the protection of the victim and of the ban on exiting the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria Art. 68a. When the defendant violates the measure under art. 67 or the prohibition under art. 68, a measure shall be taken to ensure that it does not deviate or that the specified measure of non-reflection is amended in a more severe manner in accordance with the procedure laid down in that code. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 310 is In the case of a probation measure imposed under art. 42b, para. 3, p. 1 of the Criminal Code, the court shall inform the victim of the possibility of issuing a European Protection Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u92	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u93	By § 6, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. Annex 1 to art. 2, para. 3. Proposal from the MPs Svilen Ivanov and Kiril Kalfin. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose that the name of Annex 1 be amended as follows: Annex 1 to art. 2, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the Annex 2 to art. 8, para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u94	Are there statements under § 6 by importer and both annexes? I won't. We are voting for Anblock § 6, the Commission's proposal for the name of Annex No 1. The difference is in the forwarded paragraph, and Annex No 2, supported by an importer. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Law at second reading. [[Applause from GERB.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of 24 May the Day of the Bulgarian Education and Culture and of the Slavic Literature, students from the ESPA Middle School of Education will congratulate us with a musical literary program at 10.30 am at the Club of the National Representative. Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the short celebration with the children from the SPA School. Holiday till 11:00. At 11:00 we continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u95	Honourable Members, the meeting continues with the scheduled time and day PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Previously this statement on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u96	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let me, on behalf of GERB's Parliamentary Group on the eve of May 24th - the brightest national holiday, congratulate teachers, teachers, scientists, people of speech, Bulgarian artists, people of spirituality, congratulate children, students, students and parents. Twelve centuries we Bulgarians keep our writing and language. By keeping the letters, we protect our freedom and history. They are the ones who give us the power to develop our science and culture, to move forward as a people of literature and enlightenment. Our books are part of the Bulgarian saints. They carry through the centuries the wisdom of our ancestors, our centuries-old history, stories of love and hatred, of heroism and tragedies, gentle poetry and zealous marches. Our alphabet is the temple of knowledge that we all tachim, in which we always find support and unity. As parents, we all remember those priceless manuscripts with the first words written by our children. We keep them as a testimony to a whole new world that we have found in front of our children the world of knowledge and culture. May 24th "The Day of Bulgarian Education and Culture and of Slavic Writing is the holiday we proudly celebrate. This is also the day on which we should honestly say what are the challenges that we need to respond to and that teachers and enlightenment people face each day. We have learned to repeat for decades now that the teaching profession has become unwanted and unprestigious. We agreed that our children are at the bottom of the international literacy charts. We agreed that our children are going to study and work abroad, and that's better for them. Do we agree?! Do we agree to throw these findings at each other and not change anything for years?! From GERB's parliamentary group we are convinced that the Pre-school and School Education Bill is part of the lifesaving treatment of the education system in Bulgaria because it offers a clear change in the philosophy of school education, a reflection of its importance for the fate and well-being of each person, and thus for the development of the state. This is the key on which we worked hard with teachers, parents, experts, representatives of higher schools, trade unions and employers, politicians from all parties. The law is the way to respond to modern trends in preschool and school education, to teach our children to be critical, analytical, confident in themselves and in our skills young people; to give teachers confidence to develop their competences and to do their enlightenment mission. With this Law, we guarantee the link between education that young people receive and the requirements of the business and the labour market, so we insist on unifying the key skills enshrined in the Law on which the Ministry of Education and Science will continue working on the new curriculum. We will not give up our support for the youngest children. High quality education and early childhood care are the main pillar of responsible state policy, which aims at better educational results, reducing dropouts, reducing differences, increasing career chances and as a final result, reducing poverty. The wealth of our nation is our children. Responsibility for their education is responsibility for our development as a country. We will not give in to the principles of inclusive education. Every child has the right to quality education and our job is to ensure it. This right can only be realized through education, which supports every child to unfold its potential, because every child can, because every child has talent and the school is what needs to develop it and reveal it. Each child's access to every kindergarten and school, tolerance and support to the different children are part of the values in the Bill that we stand firmly behind. We will not give up on the support and qualification of teachers. The good educational results are due to the motivation of teachers, the qualification and the approach to students. We will not give up on the great task of education related to active citizenship, personal development and well-being of people. Our political will is the Bulgarian education to enable every child and student to develop its potential and to have a successful realization. Our political will is the kindergarten and the school to be built based on the needs of each child. We want to give our children the opportunity to be seeking, curious, empathetic, responsible, confident in their knowledge, strong in the arguments seeking knowledge as a way to success. This is the mission that the Holy Brothers and their disciples distribute, this is the mission that our scribes and teachers keep. We believe this is a mission for all of us. We are convinced that everyone wants this for the young people of Bulgaria. The literacy, education and the pursuit of knowledge have always been part of the goals of our nation and it is our turn to protect them in an adequate and modern way. Dear children, students and students! The holy brothers Cyril and Methodius created the writing and gave us the opportunity to be unique as a people, to express our thoughts and aspirations in our own language. Be proud, be brave, be strong and steadfast, because the Bulgarian language, writing and culture make us worthy citizens of the world! Dear teachers, thank you for teaching with love, soul and heart! You are the ones who teach our children knowledge, but also to be good people. You create bold dreamers, daring entrepreneurs, prepared scientists to continue the path of Bulgaria with dignity. Dear Bulgarian artists, people of speech and spirituality! Today more than ever, we need you, your books, insights, roads and revelations. You are those powerful individuals who bring our nation back to the bosom of spiritual enlightenment, morality, and universal human values. Happy Thanksgiving and let us remember: The people do not fall where knowledge lives! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u97	Statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u98	Dear Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, honourable guests, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are on the eve of the most Bulgarian holiday of May 24, Day of Slavic writing, of Bulgarian education and culture. This is the most real holiday of Bulgaria, which comes from the soul of the Bulgarian people. On this day, we send words of gratitude to teachers, teachers, artists and culture, scientists, community figures, all representatives of speech and literature. History knows many countries in the past that have been strong and powerful. Many of them have ceased to exist. Bulgaria has been a strong country since its founding in 681. She has fought successful wars, but only with the creation of the Slavic alphabet by the Holy Brothers Cyril and Methodius with the dedication of their students and followers, Bulgaria becomes not only strong but also great because writing gives the true value in the development of Bulgarian history. In the Bulgarian state and from the Bulgarians begins that historical path of a new civilization, which will line up in the violets of modern Europe. Since then the letters, book, writing, education and culture are the most sustainable element in the cultural and historical characteristic of the Bulgarian ethnicity. It is because of this peculiarity that Medieval Bulgaria radiates cultural and literary splendor, comparable to the most significant forces on the European continent. Thus, along with our state achievements and military victories, we Bulgarians bring a special state of spirituality, which becomes a tradition. Thanks to the Cyrillic, there are us in history and in time, and there will always be us, because apart from us, 270 million people write in Cyrillic. This is our people's huge contribution to world civilization. The Bulgarian alphabet today is recognised as the third official alphabet in the European Union and the Bulgarian language... for one of the official languages in Europe. Dear colleagues, it is not enough today to congratulate the teachers, the actors of education, science and culture, to bring them flowers, to remember what they have done for us. We need our daily care for the revival of the spirit of Bulgaria. It is our responsibility and it is related to the future. Like every year, our mood on the eve of May 24th is festive. However, when we look at European countries, we must point out that even in difficult circumstances they do not reduce the funding of education, science and culture, on the contrary, or increase this funding, or at least retain it. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria very often talks about modernization of the country, but he means mainly construction, and the real modernization goes through education, through accessible, quality education, which can make the Bulgarians competitive. According to the European Union strategy, the 2020 Europe, which aims at greater competitiveness of its citizens, greater sustainability on the basis of smart growth based on knowledge, requires every country to invest very seriously precisely in education, science and development. Unfortunately, with us, the funds for education are at least compared to all the countries of Europe - only 3.7 percent of gross domestic product and the government does not foresee a change in the next three years. Moreover, the foundation on which higher education and science are built is quality secondary education. The management's attitude shows the opposite in Budget 2015 the money for it decreased by 9 million compared to last year. The aim of the European Union is also to allocate funds for science to be at least three percent of gross domestic product. In Bulgaria is only 0.16 per cent at an average of 0.8 per cent for the other member states. The European institutions claim that the most promising investments are those invested in the development of education and research. In Bulgaria, higher schools, scientific organizations and cultural institutions fight for their survival. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria states that the future of Bulgarian education and science is related to meaningful, legislative actions and decisions. We demand, as we did in the discussion of Budget 2015, that the government ensure a priority place for education and science. We are ready to support the sensible ideas that stimulate their qualities. Bulgarian education has traditions and they are the most valuable experience that the state needs to protect and develop. Reforms offered through the new Law on school and pre-school education should take place with the participation of teachers and the public. Any extravagant proposals for the financing of private schools, independent education, closure of auxiliary schools, extension of autonomy and lack of control condemn the education of our children, threaten the existence of the system. We will oppose any attempt to replace the social character of Bulgarian education, to limit the opportunities of young people to receive and develop their knowledge. We are ready to support sensible ideas for the development of innovation in the economy, but this cannot happen without sustainability and prospects for Bulgarian science. And in his second term, this government fought against the Bulgarian scientists and the aim was to be financially bled out. The aim is to reduce the autonomy of management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the eradication of the Agricultural Academy. Young scientists still have a salary of 230 euros a month without government prospects to correct this injustice. It's no coincidence that our country is in one of the first places in the world in recent years of brain draining. We appeal to the Bulgarian scientists with a call to protect their dignity, the results achieved and not to stop looking for the truth and the best for their realization, despite the difficulties encountered, because they do so for the progress of society. We want to congratulate the Bulgarian teachers and all the people of literature and spirituality once again, to assure them that regardless of the difficult times Bulgaria is going through and which they are going through, although sometimes it seems that there is no perspective, the Bulgarian people have experienced all kinds of periods and have survived and have developed because education has always been and is worth to the Bulgarians. This value will be developed and we from BSP left Bulgaria will do everything necessary to make it a real priority of the Bulgarian state. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u99	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Lutvi Mestan, President of the Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the eve of May 24, we should remind ourselves that the Bulgarian people are blessed to be among the few peoples around the world who have as their spiritual symbols original letters. Although the great work of the most holy brothers Cyril and Methodius was initially devoted to the needs of the Grand Moravian Prince Rostislav, who decided to accept Christianity, there is no doubt that this alphabet was created on the basis of the Bulgarian adversary in the years when the process of spreading the original Slavic languages from their common Praslavian root began. Today I will not state purely phonetic and grammatical evidence that the work of the most holy brothers Cyril and Methodius, dedicated to the needs of Velika Moravia and Grand Moravia Prince Rostislav by his nature is a Bulgarian work, because the most holy brothers knew precisely the solon Bulgarian adversary. More importantly, this case really survives precisely because of the vision of the Bulgarian rulers from Boris the Crusader through Simeon, during which we have the bloom of the book schools to get to the great heritage and the Tarnovo Book School, which gives reason for a number of researchers to talk about Bulgarian pre-renaissance as a Bulgarian contribution to modern European civilization. On the occasion of the festival, I would like to recall the insightful words of Constantine Cyril, a philosopher given in Venice in his talk against trilinguals: Doesn't God send rain equally to all..............................then says Constantine Cyril philosopher..... also.......................... And how is it that you are not ashamed when you acknowledge only three languages, and command that all other nations and tribes may be blind and deaf? Explain to me: Do you think that God is powerless, that he cannot give all this or be jealous, that he may not desire? Ladies and gentlemen, I will only ask the rhetorical question: do we have a clear understanding of the contemporary projections of the penetrated words spoken in the 9th century by Konstantin Cyril Philosopher, do we have a awareness of the equality of all languages, do we have a clear awareness that no language can be placed higher than another, that it is not just a matter of shortsightedness, but a question of dark-breeding thinking to allow the hierarchism of languages and, on this basis, some languages to be discriminated against at the expense of others? It's just a rhetorical question. The festival does not allow us to have nuances even of politicism, because on May 24th, it seems to me that we should all have the will to put ourselves above our political addictions. However, the question we are putting on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group deserves its answer, and I hope that each of you will look for it first. More importantly, what I want to share with you is that the Cyrillic homeland today in the charts of actual real illiteracy of its young people, unfortunately it is already one of the first places in Europe. The fact that a quarter near the Bulgarian youth aged between 19 and 24 years is not engaged in work or learning shows that there is a dangerous process of increasing illiteracy of the population in Bulgaria. And once again, just in connection with the light holiday we will raise the question that overcoming the worst ulcer of the Bulgarian education system, dropping out of school is not only a matter of the school degree. I say this in connection with the establishment law on school education that we are discussing at the Parliamentary Commission. We are deeply convinced that if we want to resolve the issue of early school dropout, we need to remember that the causes are rooted in the pre-school degree. It is very good that we introduce an obligation for all Bulgarian citizens to ensure that children are present in kindergartens or in other forms of pre-school education and training, but at the same time we must realise that the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian municipalities have not provided the conditions for Bulgarian citizens to fulfil this obligation. And if it's great that we periodically hear news about an open-air kindergarten in the center of the capital and in the centers of other major cities, thousands of children from minority neighborhoods still have no access to kindergarten. I will believe that the reforms in Bulgarian education have started when we hear the first news of an open kindergarten for example in the two minority districts of Sliven, [[speaking indistinctly]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u101	Please, no lines from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u102	...where thousands of children don't have access to kindergarten. I hope that both the Minister of Education and his team have seen the obvious pattern that children who have gone through forms of preschool training and education do not drop out of school. Those who didn't pass because they didn't have a chance, as a rule they drop out of school. Bulgaria is present today with its spiritual sign at the entrance of the European Parliament, because there the Republic of Bulgaria is written with the letters bequeathed by the most holy brothers Cyril and Methodius. Bulgaria is pleased to be not least in literacy, but to be in one of the first places in Europe in literacy of its children, young people and their citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u104	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the eve of the bright Bulgarian feast of the holy brothers equals Cyril and Methodius, I would like, firstly, to thank Mr. Mestan for emphasising the old Bulgarian character of Bulgarian writing, because, as Chernorisets Hrabar himself wrote: It's an absolute fact. The Bulgarian writing, basically the old Bulgarian language, has gradually established itself as the basis of the writing of all Slavs. Today, with national pride, we can say that the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia, the Serbs, wrote to the 19th century Romanians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Russians, all the way to a distant Mongolia. There really is nothing to replace the power of speech, as a modern poet Ivaylo Valchev said: The Word has always come out stronger than lead. So let's never let lead be stronger than the word again! So let us always move towards national reconciliation and national unity! Otherwise, to the teachers bow down for what they do in this difficult environment for them. Their profession is not a profession, it is rather a mission, a calling, and they do it anyway, but to the students an old people's wisdom: [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u105	Are there any other statements on behalf of parliamentary groups? Mr. Volen Siderov of the group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is very nice that the plenary is also honored with declarations and statements from all the parliamentary groups to the biggest Bulgarian celebration of the spiritual holiday, May 24th. Of course, as a realist, I'll tell you what's not good. It is not good that we are politicians here, that is, in our hands is the lever with which we can move the path of our whole country, our society. When we go out here and say that everyone should have access to school and kindergarten, that's wonderful talk, which is very good, we should immediately say that this is not possible right now. Why isn't that possible? Well, it's very simple because some kids just don't have the money to study. This is because this model, which we now live in, was introduced in Bulgaria to pay for education. Many times I have heard how the previous order which we used to call "socialism" or "communism" was tarnished, but there was no payment for education. Yeah, I know someone's gonna tell me there's no free lunch, someone's been paying. We paid solidarity so that everyone could study. Because you don't know where the genius will come from, do you? You don't know where the new John Atanasov will come from, you don't know where the one who will glorify Bulgaria will come from. If he is from a poor family and currently has no opportunity to pay his tuition for university, and we have had many such cases and we have even been treated.....they have come to us to seek help, then there is no way the Bulgarian genius will be shown. Therefore, when we talk about culture, about the Bulgarian writing, I will say a few words and about what we owe to the history books, we must say that at the moment we have not built the good way of education, rather we have spoiled the good, and now it is none. Now, at the moment, the budget separates 45 hundredths from the percentage of culture. This cannot be a concern for the culture, which is the oldest culture in Europe. It's more of a carelessness, it's more of a deletion of this culture. Someone's gonna say I'm black-eyed again. But, no, I'm a realist. So I'm anxious to say that today's model is wrong. You have to go back, you think about it. The ruling coalition, how to do it, but you have to change the neoliberal model, it will be difficult for you. You have to return free access to the schools really. For state universities and schools no fee should be paid. Let there be one who is rich to study there, but these private schools and universities do not receive from the state budget, let them be supported by the money of the rich people. That would be fair. That is not the case right now, and we need to fix it because we are politicians. The other thing we need to correct are the history books, lectures and history lessons, which still flood us with lies and false statements about the origin of the Bulgarians, including the origin of the Holy Equals Cyril and Methodius, which we are now celebrating. We celebrate them, however, we call them the Slavic brothers. And they're Bulgarians! And this is written in the short life of Cyril: That's what it says. Why don't we study it in the books? Because over the years, we have always done some sort of vassal bow in one direction or another. And it's up to us to put our own contribution to culture before the world. This is a Bulgarian contribution, it is an old Bulgarian contribution. That should be said and stressed and made others say and emphasize it. And not when Cyril and Methodius are celebrated in Europe, they pretend to be some kind of disloyal, unethical, just like enlighteners who have emerged from somewhere. No, they have emerged from the Bulgarian gene and this should be said without passing to the extent of chauvinism or any claim that we are something more. Let's just stick to the facts. That's the most important thing. This factology has been distorted over the years because of one interest or another. It has come to the point that today in our textbooks we learn that the Bulgarians originated from some Turk-Altaic tribes who came on horsebacks here and built these huge constructions that we now want to rebuild. This is a very good move of the government, by the way, because indeed Pliska and the other magnificent works of the Bulgarians - not of the Turk-Altaics - but of the Bulgarians - should be restored and shown to the world. They were built by Bulgarians who lived here on these lands for thousands of years. We're not Turk-Altaics, we're not Iranians who came on jerky horses under the saddle. We are an old state-creative civilization, and that should be said, that should be written in the letters, in the textbooks. And not now that shit that's written in the letters. I'm not going to quote them because it's still a kind of festive speech. But there can't be critical notes in it, because otherwise, I say again, we won't be politicians, but we'll just be some literary club where elaine's words will be read. We're responsible. We can make decisions here. Unlike someone who simply speaks and wants to speak well, we are the ones behind whose words should then follow action. I call you here, on the eve of this, as you all say, a light Bulgarian holiday, old Bulgarian even, to move on to action. Here, we have a prepared Bulgarian Language Law, which was made by our parliamentary group before several Parliaments had stood and collected dust. Let's get him out, let's vote him out. This will be a contribution to Bulgarian culture. Let's think about why the professor is currently taking 800 BGN and the assistant who starts his scientific and teaching activities is taking 500 BGN.? Is that right? Four hundred professors!? Where is it, in which country and how, in this way, do we want to continue the titanic historical and cultural heritage that we have? We can't keep doing this! Let's think about how to change that, think about how the people we're now addressing and congratulating from here feel dignified. Because now they don't feel worthy of the teachers, nor the teachers, nor those to whom we now thank. We thank you, but if they come here in this room, I think they'll use a lot of sharp words and tell us that we're not in our place because year after year they talk about how culture and education collapse, but in fact nothing is done. Let's start with the payment of this part of the Bulgarian society without which our children cannot grow up. Isn't that right, everyone agrees with that? Let's make these people worthy, feel dignified and proud to say: I am a Bulgarian teacher, teacher, professor and work at a Bulgarian institute, but not for 400 BGN, but for as much as my colleague in Germany or Switzerland makes. Then we would say that we are worthy heirs of this culture, which of all parliamentary groups you have now reminded. But it's just the memory that doesn't have to live, that we have to be in the present and look to the future. Then we'd be worthy MPs, which is why we're here in this room. Thank you for your attention. I wish everyone health and success, and the Bulgarian people to live! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u107	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Are we ready to move on to parliamentary control? I don't see anyone willing to make any other statements. New questions about the time 16 "May 21, 2015: - a request from the National Representative Maya Manolova to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, on the policy of the Ministry of Health for the treatment of cancer patients, should be answered in the plenary session on 29 May 2015; - a request from the National Representative Ivan Stankov to Desislava Taneva "Agriculture and Food Minister" on the short-term and long-term policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the restoration of the meliorative systems and, respectively, of crops dependent on quality irrigation, should be answered in the plenary session on 29 May 2015. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dora Yankova, Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Zhelev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a request from the MPs Metodi Andreyev and Willi Lilkov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Dobrin Ganev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Kostadin Markov, Diana Yordanova, Rumen Zhelev, Dimitar Petrov, Ivan Valkov and Semir Abu Melih; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Gemma Grozdanova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Gemma Grozdanova. First in today's parliamentary control will be responsible for the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. The first question to be answered is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev concerning identified deficiencies at the border crossing.. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, my question is about the identified gaps of the border crossing, Captain Andreevo. In other words, the organization of smuggling in mass sizes. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Minister, after an operational signal for illegal imports of Turkish cigarettes, a truck with smuggled cigarettes was detained, which entered the country on 29 March 2015, which led to the detention of 13 customs officers from the border crossings. Later, the media issued a signal of another series of customs violations in Svilengrad, which allowed smuggled imports of cigarettes, damaging the budget by millions of levs a month. The alert shall indicate information that it was found in the case that during the period 1 March 31, 2015 at the point of "Captain Andreevo' passed 17 trucks containing excise goods without Banderol, for which the customs officers of the Republic of Bulgaria had been duly informed by their colleagues from the Republic of Turkey. However, only one copy of a transit Turkish declaration has been found at customs since the beginning of the year until the end of March 2015. All the other trucks have passed on to the so-called slange in the high road without any registration in any registers. Of these 17 trucks alone, the loss for the excise budget is of the order of 24 million. lv. Assuming that only 17 trucks per month entered the country illegally, multiplied by 12 months, this makes a budget loss of about 300 million. lv. However, keep in mind that between 900 and 1000 trucks pass through the checkpoint a day. Whether only 17 of them drive excise goods smuggled, or more, in fact none of us know, but the potential for smuggling is far greater than even 300 million. lv. for a year. A crime in such immense proportions and in such a regular manner cannot happen without protection by staff of the Customs Agency, Directorate-General for Border and Border Police, with the corresponding penalty of the highest level of management. I'm cutting my question short, and I'm going straight to the questions. Dear Minister, please answer the following questions: First, what is the reason for the serious omissions in the management of the border crossing, Captain Andreevo, in the work of the Border Police and the Directorate-General for Police, lack of enough video surveillance and formal verification of documents at the point? Secondly, who are responsible for the deficiencies indicated in the signal? What responsibility will be suffered? Thirdly, it is quite obvious that such well-organised corruption practice cannot happen without protection from the highest level. What action has the Ministry of Interior taken to identify the persons involved at the highest professional, political and management levels? Fourth, how do you assess the state of the border crossings in the country in terms of their ability to ensure security and legality when entering Bulgaria? Fifth and final question: what measures have you taken to address the crossings' gaps Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. I'm sorry, but I want to tell you that you spoke one minute and twenty seconds more, so for your line you'll have one minute. Here you are, dear Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u110	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kadiev, the topic you are putting in your question points to a major priority in the work of our government. Since the beginning of the year, we have been working extremely actively weekly to curb smuggling. This is reflected in the results we have achieved, judging by the increased revenues for this period. The specific case you are quoting is public. There's enough information on it, and you're referring to it yourself. I don't know what channels you have from the case itself, which hasn't been completed. In this case, the important thing that I would like to draw attention to is that we are not covering up the case, on the contrary to the disclosure of these cases of smuggling prove that we are working very actively, and this is effective. What we have established in the course of the investigations is that perhaps such a channel has existed for a long time, but no one previously tried to limit it or create such conditions as to allow for disclosure. We specialize in this every week. The Prime Minister is personally involved. I can tell you that currently the Plovdiv Prosecutor's Office has detained 22 people. There is an appointment to check the border police, whose results I expect after 25 May, when the deadline, this means next week. Periodically and quite often management staff from the Ministry visit the checkpoint and other points to establish the status along the border in order to combat smuggling. Another measure that I have taken personally was my conversation with the Turkish Interior Minister and then the subsequent meeting of the Secretary General with him to establish the way in which mutual information is provided between the two crossing points. There is currently a process of reorganization and renewal of the border point. The information I have is that over 160 cameras have already been installed and the investigation is underway. The footage we're using in the investigation is from these cameras. Perhaps the most important measure, which proves the systematicness of our policy in this direction, is a decision of the Council of Ministers by following my orders in order to organise the work of an Interdepartmental Center for Combating Smuggling, in which the efforts of all the institutions concerned are integrated. Information is collected there and there will practically be a continuous monitoring process of what is happening at all border crossing points. At the first stage, only for those referred to as priority, and then, hopefully soon, for all others. We have located all the information and political efforts in order to combat this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Kadyev, come in for your line within one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u112	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. All the information I have used for my question is only and only public, including information in the case was mentioned in the media. I'm counting on her credibility. What I didn't say in my question was that at the time of his appointment at the border crossing, Captain Andreevo had only 5 cameras mounted, of which only one single If there are 160 cameras right now, my congratulations on this thing! Personally, I doubt that they reacted so quickly, but hopefully they did, because when you talk about your Turkish counterpart, in fact, a major operation on the other side of the border a few years ago was the Turkish services that caught a huge part of their corrupt customs officers with cameras, and the cameras are actually one of the solutions in this regard. Now a little in the area of the most important question asked, Mrs. Bachvarova, which I did not hear a specific answer about. Maybe you can clarify. I'll take a joke. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. Chairman. Online media "Web Coffee" published 15 signs of how to find out that local elections are coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u113	One and a half minutes you're talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u114	One of these signs was: Georgi Kadiev is wondering how to run for mayor, and BSP is wondering how to turn it off. The other sign was: Tsvetan Tsvetanov has a folk costume and a hat on his head. [[Laughter and excitement.]] The most important sign that was missed was: smuggling is increasing because the elections need to be financed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u116	Now I'm going to ask the third question and please answer it. [[The President signals that time has expired. Proclaims: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u117	But, Mr. Kadyev, please don't force me...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u118	What actions have been taken to identify the persons involved at the highest level, because that is what is important. Customs down there, they're changing. But they certainly have an umbrella on top. That's what you tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Come on in for your douche bag. I would like to inform you in advance: we must adhere to the Rules, and it is strict. I gave you one minute and 20 seconds on your question, and now you're running out of time again. I beg you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u120	Mr. Kadyev is doing me a favor because he's giving me the opportunity to answer more questions and tell me what we're doing. I think it's speculative your claim that there is political protection. All our efforts are aimed at limiting the respective acts. I can't say what the entire volume of smuggling is, but this time, the indicator for increasing smuggling is not going to work before the elections, because we are actually able to limit a significant part of which, as I told you, there is concrete evidence in the increased customs revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Second question by the National Representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov on establishing joint teams of forest inspectors and employees of the Ministry of Interior to deal with the recurrences in illegal logging. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I ask myself the question, if you'll allow me to congratulate our longtime colleague Mrs. Ekaterina Mihaylova, I see her upstairs on the balcony with her students. Let's wish her all the best! Good luck. Now the question itself, which is to Mrs. Bachvarova as Minister of Interior and concerns the creation of joint teams of forest inspectors and officers of the Ministry of Interior to deal with the recurrences in illegal logging. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, the problem of illegal logging and the difficulties faced by the forest inspectors to manage it, the detention of offenders and their surrender to the Ministry of Interior authorities are not from yesterday. In recent years, however, the audacity of some offenders has reached unprecedented levels, and the news of disregarding the law, even threatening and attempting to deal with forest inspectors, has become almost daily in some regions. At the same time, a similar problem of severe abuse of medical workers from the Emergency Aid was identified at the beginning of the management mandate and joint teams were formed between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and medical workers to deal with it in areas with particularly high levels of abuse to officials. This good practice is already producing results, and the presence of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior is acting respectably and deterring potential offenders. Such support would be very useful in the most critical areas of illegal logging, where the employees of the Executive Forest Agency's own forces are insufficient and they cannot respect organized groups of wagons and other aids carrying out systematic raids and illegal logging over the Bulgarian forest. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, please answer the following question: is there possible in areas with the most illegal logging cases and registered attempts to deal with offenders with forest inspectors from the Forest Executive Agency, including threats to their lives, to form joint teams with the Ministry of Interior authorities to deal with the problem, detain offenders and attract them to responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u123	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u124	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Slavov, and currently there is an opportunity for joint teams of police officers and forest inspectors. An agreement was signed on 9 January this year between the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Agriculture and Food for Cooperation and Interaction. In Section V, t. The order of cooperation and interaction between the Ministry of Interior and the Forest Executive Agency is described in detail. Such joint teams shall be formed by submitting a written request from either Party. Police officers are currently prepared to assist in cases of sudden need, as well as in planned joint forest control and conservation activities. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have a continuous exchange of information and cooperation in order to better assess and analyse the areas where the problems you describe are being monitored. We're following procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Slavov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior for this answer. I am pleased and welcome this initiative and this signed agreement, because, as we have seen over the years, a number of legislative amendments that have been made to the Forest Act, including giving additional powers to forest inspectors, some of them very similar to police, including detaining the belongings of intruders, to hand them over to the regional government of the Ministry of Interior, unfortunately, have not given the desired result. In places we are talking about organised groups that are extremely uncompromising, extremely insolent, extremely disrespectful, and obviously only the adequate intervention of the law enforcement authorities, the Ministry of Interior could respect them; to implement the legislation that we adopt in this House, however good, without adequate control of its compliance will remain only desirable. So thank you once again for the measures you have taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u127	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. A hole? Mrs. Bachvarova won't take advantage. We are going to ask the MP Petar Vladislavov Slavov about the policy of the Ministry of Interior regarding ensuring the safety of movement on the renovated sections of motorways, prevention and relief of congestion. Here's a question within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u128	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, the urgent renovations on some sections and viaducts of the motorways of Hemus and Trakia, although we are still outside the holiday season, are already creating serious difficulties for travelers to move. The presence of timely and adequate interference by the DMV authorities, Road Police is a condition for both prevention of possible violations and hazards for traffic safety and a prerequisite for reducing congestion and hence for reducing stress for traveling citizens. Along with the regulation of real-time traffic, the DMV authorities could also be very useful with the prior establishment of a temporary movement organisation, of course, together with the owner of the road infrastructure concerned, with the administration that manages it, as it is under the Road Traffic Act. This can be done by defining two lanes in the direction of intensive traffic in the repaired sections, which can be changed respectively at the beginning and at the end of each peak period. It's what's called a reverse movement. Thus the flow of travelers, especially on the eve of holidays and weekends, when concentrated in one direction, and then in the opposite, much easier to withdraw, respectively at the end of the weekend will be easier to return to the capital and to the big cities. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, in relation to the above, please respond to the following question: what measures does the policy of the Ministry of Interior's management provide for ensuring the safety of the movement in the repaired sections of motorways and preventing congestion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u129	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u130	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Slavov, when a temporary organisation of the movement is introduced due to construction works on the relevant road sections, police officers shall exercise control over the protection of traffic safety and, if necessary, take action to regulate. It is important to note that when performing repairs on highways and roads first class, the temporary organisation for traffic safety is introduced by order of the Road Infrastructure Agency and you should address your recommendations and questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works with them we work continuously, we are in constant contact with Minister Pavlova. I will make a brief statement and some details of your inquiry with regard to the powers of the traffic police officers, because the subject is of extremely high public interest. A temporary movement organisation shall be established for the introduction of a movement mode which ensures safe passage by road section during the implementation of construction works, as required by Regulation No 3 of 16 August 2010. In carrying out long-term repairs, a project for a temporary organisation for traffic safety shall be developed. Contracting entities of construction works shall be responsible for the design and coordination of the project for the temporary organisation and traffic safety. The project shall be agreed and approved after an opinion has been given by the relevant structures of the Road Police, by the regional road management for a working section of the Republican road or by the municipality concerned for a working section of local roads and streets. As I have already pointed out, in the performance of construction works on highways and highways first class, the temporary organisation for traffic safety is introduced by order of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which is agreed with the Directorate-General of National Police. Working meetings between representatives of the two institutions dealt with difficulties for the movement in sections of the motorways on which construction works are carried out. Specific traffic relief measures have been identified, one of which is an increase in the flow capacity by introducing the reverse movement of what you mention in certain sections that are consistently introduced and where this is possible and does not endanger traffic safety. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those responsible for placing and maintaining the alarm in accordance with the project for the temporary organisation of traffic safety and for removing it after the need for it is removed are those who carry out the long-term construction works. Despite the fact that the responsibility is directed at another, I will repeat again, we are in constant contact.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for your two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Interior, as has become clear from your response, indeed the creation of such a temporary organisation of movement in such sections is a joint initiative and is coordinated with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and is taking place at the initiative of the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as the principal of this Agency, so I have actually asked Mrs. Pavlova this question, too, but my aim and the point was to draw your attention as a body involved in the coordination procedure and who is already exercising control of practice in implementing these measures during the movement. In this sense, it is also my request that you tell us, in particular, whether it is envisaged by the Ministry of Interior, particularly the authorities of the DMV, constant on-site control in these sections, especially in such moments of busy movement, as is the beginning and end of the weekend or the beginning and end of the holiday season, for example 1 August, 14 August, as these days are usually the busiest, just in order to ensure that indeed the employees, as you mentioned, performing the repairs actually carry out these duties, are moving the signs and poles, which divide the road sail into two lanes in one direction and a lane in the other direction, and that this is really observed and implemented, and is not just written on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u134	Mr. Slavov, yes. We foresee such measures, but specific decisions are taken in view of the current situation and the expected development and load of traffic on the roads. This is also related to our efforts for a better organisation during the summer tourist season.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. For attitude, you give up. A question from the National Representative Ruchen Mehmed Riza concerning the delay in putting into service on the cross-border road Dobromir "Krushari." Here you go, Mr. Riza.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u136	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! The commissioning of the cross-border road Dobromir Krushari is extremely important for the inhabitants of Krushari municipality and Dobrich district. The border villages in the area are in a very difficult state and continue to be depopulated. This cross-border route is a ray of hope for local people who hope that economic recovery will take place with it, even with the direction of the tourist flow through the region. Without a doubt, in addition to economic benefits for the region, this will also benefit international trade, it will facilitate the mobility of the population in these regions. The cross-border road Dobromir Krushari was renovated with the financial programme for cross-border cooperation of Bulgaria in 2007 and 2013. Its budget is only over 3 million in Bulgaria. Euros. A rehabilitation of nearly 8.5 km of road section was carried out, which starts from the village of Alexandria, passes through Koriten and ends in the village of Severniak. The rehabilitation of the road section ended as early as 2013. The Romanian side also completed its work. It has built nearly 9 km a whole new road section from Banasa to the Bulgarian border. As early as May 2014, the construction of the control point, which is the commitment of the Romanian side, ended. Expectations were that summer to work, but unfortunately this did not happen under the pretext that no funds were put into the budget of the Ministry of Interior for Personnel. We are facing another tourist season, but the opening of the cross-border road Dobromir "Krushari has gone into oblivion and no institution can give a logical answer, even the regional administration in Dobrich. In this regard, Madam Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions: what is the reason for the delay in putting into service on the cross-border road Dobromir Krushari? And when can this cross-border route be put into service at the earliest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u137	Thank you, Mr. Riza. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u138	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Riza, I had the opportunity to discuss this with my Romanian colleague a few weeks ago when we had a bilateral government meeting, because we are also reporting and worrying about the fact that work on this road has not yet been finalised on this subject. At the moment, however, the initiative to finalise the work on the construction of the point is on the Romanian side, on whose territory it is. According to information from the Directorate-General for Border Police at the moment in Romanian territory for the needs of the future crossings are installed only premises type "Furgons". There is no normal water supply yet, there is power through an electric generator and there is actually no electrical connection in the area. This is what we have found against the background of the work you have already done and in the justification of your question. The infrastructure constructed so far does not provide the necessary conditions for normal operation at the joint point. According to practice, the Romanian border police should invite the Bulgarian border police to visit and a joint view of the established border crossing point, as the two border police have to accept the facility. Until now, such an invitation has not been sent. I asked that question, but I was assured that soon it would probably be sent. We are prepared to carry out such a joint review of the future point and to remedy any irregularities as far as they are within our responsibilities. Nevertheless, the Border Police Directorate-General has already taken the necessary steps to secure the computer equipment of the future border crossing, training the employees and drafting the border seals, so we expect the Romanian side, I hope, after our conversation will have a result.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u139	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Here's your line. You don't. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Hristov Yankov concerning changes in the management of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My question is about changes in the management of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Varna. In recent days, the Director of the Ministry of Interior, his deputy director and the Head of the Security Police Department were replaced. They were carried out without an assessment to the public in Varna and the region for the previous work of the Regional Directorate. Please give me a specific and comprehensive answer: what has required the changes? Failure to deal with the work of the previous holders or other specific reasons? What are the objectives and tasks in front of the new leadership that you have set in the short term and what are your expectations for the effectiveness of the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u141	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you are, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u142	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Iankov, regarding the public evaluation of the release of executive officers at the Ministry of Interior, I must clarify that such practice does not exist, but by putting this question before me, I will give you an answer. The Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna, during the period when it was led by its leader Mr. Kalchev, for whom you ask, ranks last, compared to all other Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the country. On all lines of activity, the directorate has the lowest scores... [[BSP LB.]] Can I finish? Then we'll comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u143	Mr. Antonov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u144	... as the average for Varna is 2.56 on the five-point system. I'll say it again: 28th of 28 places. For the first quarter of 2015, shortly before the release of the three leaders, this trend remained unchanged, has not changed. They have submitted their exit reports, with a request for a pension right and have not actually been released from us on this basis. Just before we had an opinion on this, they filed their reports. In recent months, actions have been carried out under the direction of the specialized prosecutor's office against two highly organized criminal groups in the territory of the Ministry of Interior Expectations for the new management are to increase the assessment because it has a complex character on four main indicators, which is given mainly by the activity of the investigation and security directorate, and we hope to have better results there soon. In the short term, the objectives set are related to securing the current tourist season and, for a longer term, dealing with the factors affecting the criminal situation within the scope of this Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Your line, Mr. Yankov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, colleagues! I asked this question and thank you for giving an assessment of the work of the previous management of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Varna, but it is in the sense that these shifts have obviously been delayed since you had information in the Ministry of Interior regarding the assessment of the current management, because an active tourist season is coming, there is a concentration of criminogenic factors which, in connection with the summer season, are being distributed from the interior of the country. The posting of employees from the Ministry of Interior system, in particular from the SVR in a city such as Varna, is related to the risk of not knowing the situation in the region, not knowing the same contingent, which is part of the processes taking place during the summer, and the exceptional sensitivity of the foreign citizens who visit our country, in terms of the protection of public order, as regards the work of the law enforcement authorities also reflects the extent to which they remain with good impressions from the country and are still ready to visit it as tourists. My concerns are that an external team now, just opposite the season, is in danger of getting into work quickly, not working with the collective, with the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who are in the territory of Varna and Varna region, which hides its risks. From this point of view is it not appropriate to wait for this external team after the season or earlier so that it can enter and do its work the way Bulgarian citizens expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u147	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u148	Mr. Iankov, the assessments given in the Ministry of Interior are quarterly. The latter is valid at the end of March, and the release reports for the three senior officials are dated 8 April. The appointments we made are from 15 April 2015. The team has been working there for more than a month now. The reasons to post management staff from Sofia in Varna are extremely reasonable. I support them, and I think this will help our work. Yesterday we had a meeting with ambassadors and embassies who send tourists to Bulgaria, and from the report of the new head of Varna, I can judge that there is readiness to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Ayhan Ahmed Etem and Erdinch Ismail Hajrula about the organization for issuing and replacing documents for identification by the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Hajrula.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! Our question is about the organization for issuing and replacing identity documents by the Ministry of Interior. In this calendar year, about 150,000 is expected. Bulgarian citizens from all over the country who work or live abroad to replace their foreign passports and their personal documents, whose validity period expires. At the same time, the permanent process for filing documents for new passports and ID cards continues for the first time. Since the beginning of March in the districts of Kardzhali, Haskovo, Razgrad, Shumen, Targovishte and Silistra there has been an increased influx of citizens living or working abroad who come to replace their personal documents. Our experience from previous years shows that this creates great tension for the employees in the units of the Bulgarian identity documents and the outrage of the citizens for the slow service and the chaos created in the submission of the documents. Many citizens are increasingly raising the issue of assistance and improvement of the organization for reception, processing and issuing of identity documents. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, in relation to the above, I ask you to answer the following question: what actions will you take as Minister of the Interior to facilitate and improve the service of the citizens in the units of the Bulgarian identity documents? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u151	Thank you, Mr. Hajrula. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u152	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Hajrula, you are asking a question that is extremely disturbing. There are indeed difficulties in issuing personal documents in the districts of Kardzhali, Blagoevgrad, Razgrad, Dobrich, Silistra, Targovishte, Haskovo and Shumen. We are following this process and I can tell you that the Ministry of Interior has developed several plans and a series of measures to enable us to overcome these difficulties, but, unfortunately, they are all linked to additional funding. The other problem we are facing is in the limitations of the number of administrative employees and it is necessary to increase their workload, to work in different modes. What we have done at the moment in Kardzhali and in other areas is to remove the lunch break, to extend the working day, but this also requires such funding. Mobile teams are also prepped. We have a plan according to the number of expected requests and the need to issue documents and we hope to be able to realise at least some of them. It is important here to clarify that an opportunity to submit a request for the issue of the new documents is given in some of the countries where these citizens live where they reside. Therefore, there is no mandatory condition for the replacement of documents to be carried out in Bulgaria. I want to assure you that the other direction in which we are working is to resolve this issue much more cordially. We expect results from the implementation of a project under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" "Establishment of an automated information system for electronic services of the Ministry of Interior." At the end of this year, this new system will start and provide a number of electronic and administrative services over the Internet, one of which is an application for an identity card or passport. The system provides for online payment. The measure is included for implementation in the overall Electronization Strategy. This is one of the options, and I personally think the main one that we need to work on. I can assure you that we do not rely entirely on her, judging by the profile and the willingness of certain Bulgarian citizens to take advantage of her. That's why we're constantly monitoring the process and taking operational measures for his better organization.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go, Mr. Hajrula.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u154	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I welcome you on the project, but this is a way of long-term resolution of the problem. And we have raised the question of a timely solution, as the problem is huge. I've been there myself. People wait and sleep in front of passport services at 2 o'clock in the morning and wait for their turn. The letter is to you from Kardzhali District. In order to end this chaos, they propose to introduce extended working hours for employees in the BDS units, as well as to discuss the possibility of working on weekends at greater load. If necessary, additional staff from close regional departments of the Ministry of Interior, who are not entrusted with such extreme reception of documents, as are the units in Kardzhali district. To be temporarily provided by municipalities in the field of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior for additional computer and breeding equipment, providing additional premises for municipal ownership for the reception of documents and applications, secondment of municipal employees to the BDS units during the campaign to support the process of reception and processing of forms for issuing identity documents and passports. I am aware that in the district of Kardzhali the mayors have been assisting for about a month so that in municipalities and police districts applications for quick orders can be accepted. They are assisting in logistics with cars, because if such applications are accepted only in the field, you know what will happen. Therefore, please take into account the mayors' proposal to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u155	Thank you, Mr. Hajrula. Here you go, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u156	Mr. Hajrula, I can assure you that all these measures have been discussed. According to the latest information, we are currently planning to have about seven seconded personnel in Kardzhali. I can assure you that we are monitoring this process and that all possible measures within the resources at our disposal will be taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We move on to a question from the National Representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov concerning data on drivers with more than five non-compliances with criminal regulations for violations under the Road Traffic Act. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u158	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! My question concerns a very painful topic for society, namely for drivers, who all call the drivers repeaters, i.e. drivers with more than five non-compliances or pending criminal ordinances for violations of the Road Traffic Act. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, the problem of the war on the road in recent months has escalated again. In particular disturbing were some incidents from the last month in which child death was caused and reported by the media that the intruder had more than 20 pending administrative criminal proceedings and was nevertheless not denied the driving licence of a motor vehicle by the DMV authorities. Even more disturbing was the information that, among these pending proceedings of this same driver, there were also those in which moderate or severe bodily injury to pedestrians was caused, while in a questionable manner these cases, including their prosecutions under the NK and the PPC, were completed without reaching a judicial stage at all. At the same time, under the Road Traffic Act, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have broad powers to impose forced administrative measures, including by seizure of the driving licence of guilty drivers for the period of administrative criminal proceedings until the question of their guilt is clarified. The latter is fully applicable and would be an adequate measure for the temporary limitation of precisely those drivers who have multiple acts for the identification of administrative infringements, but whose criminal decrees are usually not in force for subjective reasons and for an unjustified length of time the question of their guilt remains pending and they continue to drive motor vehicles. In this sense, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please answer the question: what is the number of drivers with five and over five pending administrative criminal proceedings? How many of them have pre-trial proceedings for possible crimes in connection with these violations? How many of these drivers currently have unsolicited driving licences? Respectfully, what is the percentage of forced administrative measures by the DMV authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u159	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u160	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Slavov, the problem is clear to everyone. We run into him every day. I feel a little uncomfortable reading statistical figures from the stands, but I'll let you know the information we have. As for the problem behind this information, it can be solved here in Parliament. There are a series of legislative proposals that need to be approved. If they are not approved, the consequences will be clear. I think there should be stricter punishments for the guilty drivers. The figures I can present to you are: From the beginning of 2012 until the end of March 2015, 108 521 orders were imposed for the enforcement of forced administrative measures, including the withdrawal of driving licences for drivers who violated the Law. For the same period of the first quarter in 2015, the persons with penal decrees not in force are 1737, of which 800 persons have up to five penal decrees and 937 with more than five. The pre-trial proceedings for crimes committed under art. 43, para. 1 sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of the Criminal Code, art. 343b for the use of alcohol and 343c for unfit drivers are a total of 25 933 for the period corresponding to statistics on other indicators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Slavov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u162	Thank you, dear Minister of the Interior. From what I heard, I wrote down my data. It is notable that 937 leaders have five and over five such pending proceedings, which have not entered into force administrative criminal proceedings. Here I would appeal to you: order an inspection and clarify whether they are objective or subjective reasons for doing so? Because five pending administrative criminal proceedings are many. That's definitely a question. I am fully aware that this is a very difficult issue and is linked to an extremely much work that I have done for you and the institution that you are running, but it seems to me that these 937 drivers contain potential future offenders. I hope I'm really wrong about them not having to make a traffic accident, because as I understand it, they are actually continuing to drive a motor vehicle, regardless of the pending proceedings and probably imposed quite severe sanctions on them. I welcome the forced administrative measures that you mentioned at the beginning of this is indeed an impressive figure. Of course, it covers not only the withdrawal of the driving licence, it is likely that it also concerns the suspension of movement, and the number of other measures that the DMV authorities may impose under the Road Traffic Act. My personal belief is that, along the way of these forced administrative measures and their possible imposition, precisely some of those 937 leaders you mentioned, can stop dangerous future consequences. Once again, I very much hope that I am wrong and that there will not be a serious incident with people in this group. I think that an inspection, especially in the regional directorates, when it comes to so many pending administrative criminal proceedings, would be useful and it could indeed be that there are A subsequent forced administrative measure by the authorities of the DMV, a temporary withdrawal of the driving licence, could be quite adequate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u163	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. A hole? You're giving up the right to the dot. I thank Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for her active participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov to Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy on Compensation for Bulgaria by the European Commission. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to the sanctions against Russia and Russia's reciprocal sanctions against the countries of the European Union from which Bulgaria is suffering undeniably damage. Exactly how much damage we're still trying to sort out with my colleagues. I asked your colleague Lukarski a special question, but we still interpret the answer and we're trying to draw some number. According to gross calculations, about 1 billion. lv. is the damage Bulgaria is losing mostly from tourism. We may not conduct such intensive trade with Russia as we should, but the Bulgarian middle class suffers most from tourism. To date, sanctions are causing significant damage and in 2015 they are expected to be over 1 billion. lv. There are countries in the European Union that were promised to be compensated for losses, such as Poland. The Poles have always known themselves for a little more insistence. I remember when the negotiations were under way for the European Union, they won a lot of things that your colleague Kuneva was a negotiator back then. The Poles are very fond of theirs, and they seem to be doing it. The question is what Bulgaria does. The Poles were promised 380 million or something about farmers because of the damage they suffered from sanctions against Russia. I also remember that last August, the Commissioner for Trade de Gucht promised that there would be compensation for the sanctions that were imposed. What's going on with these compensations? How do they affect Bulgaria and do we have any compensation? Have they been received so far and are they intended to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u165	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Here you are, Mr. Donchev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, the question that you are raising is extremely serious. There are at least three possible readings. There is certainly reason for emotional reading, there is also a possibility for political reading, there is also an opportunity for economic reading. In the short time we have under the procedure, I will only try to mark the political reading and focus on the economic one, which was ultimately the essence of your question. You are well aware that in order to change policy when calling into question the regional and international security system, Bulgaria supported the sanctions imposed on Russia by the European Union. I would like to point out, in order not to speculate on this subject, the decision to impose the measures has been taken absolutely unanimously by all the Member States, this is what the procedure shows. Whichever explanation is given after the vote, because we have a number of statements by European leaders in the opposite direction, the decision itself has been taken unanimously. I would like to point out as a nuance in the Bulgarian position that Bulgaria has always maintained a moderate position in the context of discussions on the imposition of so-called restrictive measures on Russia. It is based on the understanding that sanctions are probably an instrument for the deescalation of the crisis. Moreover, they are not the only tool. In this context, at European level, there are no separate compensatory instruments under the sanctions imposed on Russia. A regular impact assessment shall be made. Within the framework of the answer, I will comment on some measures, mainly in the field of agriculture, but they do not have the character of a targeted tool to cover the damage of the sanctions imposed on Russia. You rightly noted that focused on the subject we should seek the effect not so much of the sanctions themselves, which are mainly in the financial sphere, but the result of Russia's retaliatory sanctions with regard to the Member States of the European Union. I'd like to get into the area of specifics. Data show that for 2014 Bulgaria's total exports are around 22 billion. Euros, Russia's expansion is just over 527 million. EUR, which makes about 2.4% of total exports. If we look at the first two months of data available for 2015 and compare them to 2014, we will undoubtedly see a decline. If the total increase in exports, to compare between the first two months, is 7%, exports to Russia suffer a decline of nearly 35%. That's an indisputable fact. Of course, we are talking about relatively low values, from 77.3 million. EUR 50 million. EUR for 2015, which means that, within these reporting months, exports to Russia are around 1.4% of our total exports. When we comment on the two sensitive spheres of energy, it deserves to be a topic for a separate conversation, and agriculture, I would like to inform you that the export of agricultural production to Russia according to data from 2013 is about 70 million. The dollar. Commenting on these figures in no way do I want to minimize it, I will not do it, the negative effect on some areas of the Bulgarian economy, mostly in terms of agriculture, is mainly about fruits and vegetables and milk production. In this regard, Regulation 932/2014 was adopted as early as August 30th last year with temporary amended support measures for fruit and vegetables producers. It aims to regulate the price declines in fruit and vegetables rather than to represent a special instrument to assist the member states as a result of Russia's contractions. Bulgaria has done its best to benefit from the financial assistance offered under this Regulation and applications for nearly 1 million have been received. 400,000. Euros. In an examination of 100% verification of the applications received it appears that applications worth 398 thousand are eligible. euros that the country expects to receive as compensation or aid for price anomalies of fruit and vegetables. That's within the short time I have. I'm going to take this opportunity to further develop my answer within the backrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u167	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for the comprehensive answer. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there are two lines in your answer. One is to show how small our trade with Russia is. To refer to this is not good, because this means that, almost not, this is a positive fact, and it is not positive, it is negative. Yeah, it's small, it could be much, much larger this trade. But that's what they've done over the past two decades to tear us away from a serious and geopolitical partner, artificially tear us off. That's what we lose. We're not talking about a franchise or a franchise here, we're just losing. The other thing that you actually acknowledge and say in your answer is that if you ask for some kind of compensation, they are in a small small amount. It's just nothing against the backdrop of losses. Again, mostly the middle class loses because the resorts will remain half empty, maybe dozens of Bulgarian companies will go bankrupt. All this had to lead to a more persistent policy by the Bulgarian statesmen. When you are in Brussels, I understand that it is very nice and prestigious for example for the Minister of Economy to take a picture with Joseph Dol and to come out in the newspapers or the Prime Minister with Angela Merkel and to come out well, wonderfully. Diplomacy is that, too. But diplomacy is also to want you to be able to say, well, look what I want and I insist on it. What you point out is that sanctions have also not been adopted with full unanimity, because there should be at least a discussion in the European Union, should be at least... I will quote Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán, who said: "Europe has shot itself in the leg, imposing these sanctions and accepting sanctions from Russia. Okay, when Europe is shot in the leg, let's discuss it! Why is there no discussion in Brussels? Why did a deputy prime minister from a Baltic Republic admit that when they even come in to talk to foreign ministers and their prime ministers take their phones? This could be a summit of sovereign states or even semi-sovereign states? So there is no agreement and unanimity, and there is just one directive that is being implemented. If the Bulgarian government stops implementing this directive unconditionally and unconditionally and puts its demands, then perhaps Brussels will also remember that there is such a country Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u169	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Here you are for your back, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Siderov! Of course, I would agree with you that it is in Bulgaria's undisputed interest to have a more intensive trade with the Russian Federation. By the way, in the first part of my reply, quoting these numbers, I have in no way tried to minimize the situation, and I was absolutely honest, stating from the stands of the National Assembly that there is a damage. There's damage! Of course, when we comment on trade, it is appropriate to note that Bulgaria's imports from Russia are on a much larger scale, it is worth nearly 4 billion. Euros according to the latest reporting data. The point is, our exports are modest. I absolutely agree with you that it needs to be much bigger not only in the field of agriculture, not only in the field of tourism, let me add machine building and so on. It is an indisputable fact that sanctions and counter-scans bring mutual damage to both the European and the Russian economy. These are also indisputable facts, as the facts are indisputable, that all decisions taken with regard to the sanctions which have been made on the subject have been adopted absolutely unanimously. The only thing I would like to add is that I want the political situation in Ukraine to quickly deescalate so that it can reach an acceptable option and finally drop these sanctions because it is of the undisputed interest of both Europe and Russia to strengthen their political cooperation in the name of mutual interest, especially of more intensive trade. This is an undisputed interest of both Europe and Bulgaria as part of Europe, an undisputed interest of Russia as well. And since you mentioned at the beginning of your question some numbers relating to Poland, I don't know where you get the data, who promised whom, and I like to distinguish between the clearly expressed position, the document and the speeches. Under the same scheme that Bulgaria expects to receive a little less than half a million euros of aid, Poland has stated that it is still appropriate to realise that it is a much larger country, nearly 26 million. Whether this amount will be approved, it is difficult for me to tell you that things are in such a phase that I can comment only on the amounts requested at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u171	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. I would like to thank Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, for today's participation in parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question addressed to Ivaylo Kalfin (Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy). The question is from the MPs Maya Bozhidarova Manolova and Dora Ilieva Yankova on the government's policy for the retirement of the miners. Mrs. Manolova, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u172	Honourable Members, Mr. President, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Kalfin! The changes you have requested in the pension system and especially the request to increase the age and internship for retirement seriously worried the Bulgarian citizens. The policemen, the military and the miners you said you would take away early retirement opportunities were expected to react most painfully and most angryly. They even threatened with protests, and since these are people whose word can be trusted, I suppose that this was the reason you backed up, stepped down from your initial stated intentions, and I think it's the right step, because these are people who risk their lives, their health, working under extremely difficult conditions, exerting force, and it's right to give up their angry objections to their invading on their right to early retirement. What, though, is the agreement that these days you have called enthusiastically the Pride of Bulgaria? What should be proud of the Bulgarian citizens I personally did not understand and could not answer all those who called me yesterday and the other day ask me what we should be proud of. Because they say that those who work third category work is not a reason for pride that you will increase the retirement age to 65 years for men and women and that you will raise the internship for men to 40, for women to 37 years. In this situation, the unemployment situation in Bulgaria and with the average life expectancy, a large part of them will not live to a pension at all. There is nothing to be proud of and the police and the military, to whom you introduce an additional retirement requirement for a certain age. There's nothing to be proud of. There remains the case with the miners, of which you solemnly stated that this is the greatest pride of the government agreement with the social partners. Since there is nothing in black and white, no submitted bill, I could not explain to them exactly what your and possibly their pride should be concentrated in. And from what I've read in the government transcript that you've convinced and the ministers have supported you, I'm rather worried. There you say clearly and the ministers vote that early retirement for the underground miners will have in liquidation or abbreviation of a mine, that is, we have to liquidate mines in order to have early retirement. I'm giving you one particular example...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u173	Your question, Mrs. Manolova! You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u174	I'm done. With the current law in force, if an underground miner in December turns 45, has ten years of underground internship, has 90 points and reduces the amount of work, will retire immediately. If another miner in January, that is, a month later, turns 45 years old, has ten years of underground service, has 90 points, has a reduction in the company's work volume, will retire after 9 years and 4 months. And I ask: is this what you call a smooth increase in age and is this the reason for the pride you announced to the underground workers?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Manolova! I wonder how to say this more delicately, but it is really better for miners to address their organisations who understand well what this is about. Everything you've just said here is completely messed up. It does not comply with the truth, does not comply with the current legislation, the facts, and you obviously do not know what conditions people who are underground are currently retiring and what should happen. I'll explain it to you no problem. But I think the miners and all the other first- and second-class workers have a good enough union representation, we've been working with them for a few months now, the texts have been seen with union organizations. Many of their proposals have been accepted. So I think the way to seek their right there is actually through the trade union, which I very much encourage. Now I'm going to explain to you what this is about, too, because I think it would be useful, as a representative from a region where there are underground mines. At the moment, the law is as follows. The first and second categories are retiring, according to the current Social Security Code, from the following year to the age of six months until it reaches 57 years for men and 52 years for women. This is in the current Social Security Code, and the increase must be by six months a year until it reaches that age. This provision of the Social Security Code has been frozen almost since the beginning of its adoption, with small exceptions, year-to-year. A year per year is adopted one paragraph 4 so called, in which they say there will be an exception this year, and then the next year the next year, and this year there will be an exception again. It is obvious that people who do this kind of work cannot expect the approval of the people's representation every year to make them an exception for a few months and not know how old they will retire and what their requirements will be. I suppose you'll agree that it's normal to include in the normal text long-term so that people can judge their work experience. Once again, what the Social Security Code says has changed since 2000, many majorities have changed in this room and no one has cancelled it for a year, the maximum age is 57 years for men, 52 years for women, and the increase is six months per year. What we offer is very different. What's this about? First of all, the age at the moment for the first category is going to take it because it is the most demanding age for men the actual age is 52 years and 8 months in which they are currently retiring the first category, the employees. We will increase it to 55 by a two-month annual step, which means that those 16 months that are short will be increased in the next seven, eight years and will stop at 55, not 57 as it is now. For women, the increase will be slightly greater. I'm paying attention to the fact that there are no women in the mines. It's forbidden. Women can't work in underground mines. Currently there are 307 women in Bulgaria who work first category and they are not in the mines. Also, when it comes to underground workers, in ten years of internship they can retire at 52 years of age and 47 for women, respectively, when the amount of internship and age is collected and the number of 90 years of internship and age, and the internship is converted into mine workers and one year is reported as more. At the moment, there is a provision that you mentioned, but you did not understand it well, in which, in the event of liquidation or termination of a mine, the miners can retire if they have reached 45 years of age and have 10 years of experience in the respective mine. What are the changes we make? The changes we make are that these actual ages are currently increasing by two months. Once again, they stop at 55, not 57, we're reducing the retirement age. This thing's getting smooth. Then, when we keep the text, when there is a reduction or liquidation of a mine, they can retire 10 years earlier, but we included a text that they can't then work in a first category and take both pensions and work first category salary. So then, when he came out, and that was accepted by the trade unions when he retired earlier at the age of 45, he could not get a pension and a salary, as the argument is that this is a very demanding job, dangerous to health and so on, up to 55 years, after which he entered his normal course. For women, the increase in age is 4 months a year, for men is 2 months a year. On the example you gave. If a miner whose mine closes this year retires a month of December at the age of 45, he has 10 years of internship in the mine what will happen if it closes not December, but January? In this case, he will retire in February. Two months next year will increase the requirement for internship. So you will not retire 9 years later, as you claim, which is not true, but will retire two months later, because next year grows by two months the age at which you can retire when you cut a mine. This is a package that practically regulates, preserves and strengthens the long-term conditions under which miners work today. They can do the math, they won't depend every year on parliament's decision. There are also changes related to the early payment of pensions by professional pension funds, but today the bill will be in the National Assembly and I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it by next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u177	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin, for the comprehensive answer to the question. Two supplementary questions within two minutes. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kalfin, perhaps more than five, six months the miners from both the Rhodopes and Bulgaria are excited about the pension reform. It is certainly good that when there are strong trade unions, they can also represent their interests and the government can comply. Since Wednesday's debate, we have been under the impression that § 4 for mining work will remain 45 years of age, 10 years of internship and 90 points. So they're going to drop out, like you said, every year, to increase by a year, two, three to keep these conditions. And they are undoubtedly preserved because of severe working conditions, undoubtedly worse quality. You, as Deputy Prime Minister, are responsible for all of this in the government, in the future, to make it better. What I've heard here points to art. 328, para. 1. I mean, it's surprising for me, I've also spoken to a lot of unionists, given that we keep the terms of § 4 for the first category and specifically for the miners: why do we need 328 members? What you explained to your colleague Manolova. The second issue on which the debate is being debated and I would ask you to specify, as you have undoubtedly clarified yourself about some things, but this in Parliament has not been deposited, we expect it with great interest as a government proposal: will the reform start from 2016 or from 2017? Because in such a hurry, the debate is actually a little more pressing. It was logical for me to prepare the 2016 budget and prepare everyone for the start of the reform. Now, in the public domain, it is heard that there are political motives, that is, the presidential future elections, that there will be no noise in the system, the reform to start from 2017. If I may, a little more information on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, for your response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I hope that what we are talking about is of interest to the miners, because it is a very specific topic and I beg your pardon everyone else who will actually bring them into this problem. Currently, the retirement age of a miner for a man, because a woman cannot work in the mine, according to art. No. 104, para. 3 these are workers, first category, underground.. can retire before the age of art. 68, provided that there is a sum of age and internship 90 points, 52 years of age for men and 47 years for women. In 45 years, only those, under the current law, whose mine is closed or the enterprise is shortened are retiring. What are we doing? Those who do not close the mine and who are currently retiring at 52 years, mainly by two months we increase this age to 55 years. The three years, 36 months, will increase in nine years in practice. Then in nine years, it'll be 55 years. Those at which the mine is closed retain the current age of 45 years and 10 years of internship, when closing the enterprise or reducing the number, such as this age of 45 years, will also increase by two months a year. This means that in the following year they have to be 45 years and two months, not 45 years old, in order to be able to retire, which postpones retirement by two months, not by more than what I said to Mrs. Manolova about next year. Because there have been cases of abuse that are at the expense of the miners' health, it is being reduced and it remains at work, but it is already receiving a pension and a salary, and it is doing the same work in the same enterprise and in the same mine, we say that for these cases, after having retired earlier in this order, there is no way to combine and receive a salary. This is to avoid abuse. But at 45 years old, once again, when I say that age will grow by two months a year, it is reserved for cases where the enterprise is closed or reduced. This thing is settled permanently, not by § 4, which is transitional and is year-to-year, but enters the basic text of the Code. So basically, the change is what I explained to you. The Code, if I'm not mistaken, goes in as art. 69b. Not to lie exactly how it is, but it enters the constant text, becomes a constant norm and will not change year by year. So what with § 4 is transitional becomes a permanent provision at the moment, increasing by two months the required age per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u181	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Welcome to the Minister's response, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kalfin! As I hear you, instead of Odah of Pride and Joy, you will hear Odah of Anger. You urgently need a visit and a conversation with active miners, because you are absolutely not in line for the conditions in which the miners retire and with the situation at the moment. Unless you are tragically mistaking the terminology and using a cut-off of a mine or enterprise as synonymous with a decrease in the volume of work. I don't understand the legal terminology you're trying to articulate, but it certainly has nothing to do with the real situation. I'm explaining it to you! Currently, at the age of 45 years and at least 10 years of underground service and 90 points, not only in the case of mine closures, because how many mines have been closed in the last 10 years, but also in reducing the volume of work and reducing the state of miners are retiring immediately. Reference: In "Bobov dol" 10 years ago, 6800 miners were working, now working 3000. There are no mines covered, the volume of work is reduced, there is a reduction in the state. My question was, if you were not so smug, you could hear it and find out if the state cut short and the amount of work was reduced, the miners would be able to retire? Because even though this is an exception, this exception is the rule that they are so retiring. As for your other attempt to deprive those who retire from the opportunity to work, I warn you that you are entering heavy deep unconstitutional waters. The right to a pension cannot be at the expense of the right to work. There has been a ruling of the Constitutional Court since 1997. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Change your lawyers if you don't understand it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u183	Mrs. Manolova, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u184	And one last sentence. Since this dispute from the parliamentary tribune for you may be abstract, but for the miners, it is 7,000. souls at the moment, they are very excited about this, because obviously we cannot reach a common opinion from the parliamentary tribune, I invite you along with me and my colleague Dora Yankova...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u185	Time's up, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u186	...to go to Madan, where...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u187	Thirty seconds you talk more, follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u188	...where there will be a meeting with miners today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u189	Follow the rules in the Rules of Procedure! Thank you. [[The President shall exclude the speaker's microphones.]] Thank you for the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin in parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of Minister Tanev. The first question will be asked by Ms. Mariana Boyadjieva and Mr. Stoyan Mirchev on the regulations of the 40th National Assembly amendments to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. We're listening, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u190	Dear President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Tanev! In January the deadline for preparation of the regulations of the Minister of Education and Science under art. 9a, para. Art. 4, Art. 17a, para. Art. 5, art. 32f, para. Article 7 40, para. 10. The provisions are a condition for implementing the amendments to the Law adopted by consensus in the 42nd National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. They concern the terms and conditions for the development of internal systems for training institutions for providing quality and vocational education and training. The training through work, award, accumulation and transfer of credits, validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences. Please inform us what organization was established in the Ministry of Education and Science for the preparation of the regulations made by the 42nd National Assembly changes in the Law on Vocational Education and Training?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u191	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. For an answer Prof. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u192	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, Dear Mr. Mirchev! Your question is very familiar with the policy we currently have at the Ministry for Emancipation of Vocational Education and Training. Only with the so-called "dull education" will not pass. In the current welded structure of the Ministry there is no directorate for vocational education. We have a lot more to do there. Bulgaria has not accepted loans such as ECTK in the other field of higher education, which were accepted more than 10 years ago. I can therefore announce the following. Four regulations on the terms and conditions of validation, on the terms and conditions of an internal system developed, on the terms and conditions for conducting training during the work, on which we soon signed a contract with the Swiss and on the terms and conditions for the award, accumulation and transfer of credits. Also Regulation No 2 of 13 November 2014 on the terms and conditions for the validation of professional knowledge, skills and competences issued by the Minister of Education, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union of 21 November 2014 in force from 1 January 2015. By order a working group has been designated and agreed, the first Regulation on quality assurance of vocational education will be published these days. She's the easiest. The draft regulation on the conditions and procedures for conducting training through work, dual training was developed. The necessary base has been created at the moment in the Ministry to start the project and is signed with the Swiss, the project has already been selected schools, where it starts. As for the Order of Order of Order of Award, Accumulation and Transfer of Credits, it is actually the problematic one and is in the process of preliminary preparation. We are not ready with it because there is extremely much work to be done with your help to the Members of the National Assembly, to the relevant Parliamentary Committee on Education and Science. Before the summer vacation from the Ministry we will release you the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. I hope it will be agreed successfully. Without such a measure, all other regulations do not make sense and will be a palliative solution, especially the Regulation on credit transfer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u193	Thank you. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u194	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Minister, thank you for your response, but once again I would like to stress that there is a serious delay in time. The law was passed by consensus by the poor representatives in the Forty-second National Assembly and the regulations had to be made by January this year. As it became clear from your reply, there is a published regulation, there has already been discussed another regulation ready for publication, and one that is now provided for notes. The last one's about to get serious. I would like to remind you once again that regulations are a mandatory condition so that the Law on Vocational Education can work. I am glad that with our question, which we have already made on 11 March this year, has accelerated the work at the Ministry of Drafting Regulations. Of course, we will join in and give an opinion on the draft regulation, what you have proposed. However, I would allow myself to say that if the Ministry does not comply with the Law, what should we expect from other educational actors? In our view, this delay is very worrying and shows that the government is not interested enough in the issues of vocational education that are involved in the Bulgarian education system. I would recall that MPs from today's ruling majority were actively involved in the development and adoption of regulations under the Law on Vocational Education from the past National Assembly. In this sense, everything that is spoken in the public domain regarding the need to apply training through work.. Dual training remains, to some extent, rhetoric. The delay of a state body, we believe, is in itself at risk of compromising state institutions. In this sense, we expect the work to be done, to continue and to have the necessary documents to implement the Law within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u196	Mrs. Boyadjieva, with the care of professional education, as one of the biggest accents, I take note from your question. I can only assure you that in the debates we have and from the work on the bill to supplement the existing Law on Vocational Education and Training, which is a pretty good base, but needs something else, we are now much more aware of what could be strategically done further. In quite an accelerated time, we will make the documents that you spoke about......................................................................................... Once again, I pay attention to the need to emancipate the Law and do it all together with the joint efforts that our business needs. I've allowed myself to call three different groups that have been working for about two months on these documents, including the four employers' organizations. I tend to think that the Ministry will give way to the ruby, where it is now a nearly entirely sovereign in the field of vocational education and training, and to give life, employers and industry organisations the opportunity to cooperate in making these policies. We've done this. We will propose a change in the structure of the Ministry as soon as possible, where there is such a directorate. Her absence has greatly hindered our work, I assure you. Thank you for your question. Either way, I see your concern, and that gives me hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Representative Willy Lilkov regarding the failure to comply with the requirements of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. You have the floor, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor. Tanev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question relates to a failure to comply with one of the requirements of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which comes down to the following. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 5 of the Law provides that the Minister of Education in agreement with the Minister of Youth and Sports sets out, or more precisely, the order and rules under which sports clubs are set up in higher schools and secondary schools. Such a order was not created until now by the publication of the Law more than 13 years ago. Therefore, many of the principals of schools and rectors of higher schools refuse to recognize the established sports clubs to the relevant educational institutions and create a problem in their functioning. Article 14, para. 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports provides the same with regard to student and student multi-sport federations and associations: the Minister of Education in agreement with the Minister of Youth and Sports must lay down terms and conditions for the creation of such federations and associations. This has a direct bearing on the development of academic and student sports. In this sense, my question is as follows: what will you do, Minister, in order to meet this requirement of the Law on Physical Education and Sports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u199	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I come here from the Sports Academy, where we were with colleague Kralev. We discussed these particular issues with the management of the Sports Academy. This isn't the first date I've had with Mr. Kralev. It is a great concern to restore mass student and student sports. It's not just gonna go away with what we've done so far, it's gonna have to get more serious. There are different elements here, it is not just about physical upbringing. Mr. Kralev even talked about physical education, as in some countries. We've lost a lot, including some decline in existing pre-bases. The problem is not only in the Law, but also in many regulations and in the base. We are at the final sprint to propose exactly this, basically creating sports clubs to the higher education institutions themselves, as part of them, to settle the funding issue, which you probably mean. There are ways and forms that have been studied by the lawyers of the two ministries. Right now, we're looking at how the footage will be assembled. We're not far from the idea of introducing similar ones into schools. However, there are some things that we need to resolve with professional alliances, I mean the Teachers' Syndicate. Some places get wasted hours there. Professionals will say it best. We have a responsibility to what is happening in the different parts of Bulgaria, where such a type of physical education and training is extremely busy with other educational work, attracts people into a proactive position, including a civil one that the family, the school, even the local community cannot compensate for. Under the Law on Physical Education and Sports there are currently voluntary associations of citizens registered as non-profit legal entities. We will try to propose to the MPs that they be to the educational institutions themselves. That's short, otherwise I'll give you how things stand in writing. But the way things are, they don't satisfy me. I don't speak for myself, we're not satisfied at the Ministry. They don't satisfy us because I'm going to say it again: these are palliative measures. They should commit themselves to higher education institutions and sports to gain status as a mandatory part of training and education, and not as it is at present.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u202	Thank you, Professor. Tanev, about your commitment and Minister Kralev's commitment to this matter. I'm offering a few things. Firstly, these documents, which you will prepare for a possible change in the Law on Physical Education and Sports and in the Law on Higher Education, should be agreed before then with our Commission, as we have advanced in holding round tables and discussions on this issue. Our idea is to make such a decision of the academic councils to set up these clubs, to become a real commitment of the Rector's leadership to their development, of course, and to finance. In parallel, we need to think very seriously about the so-called third level of academic sport. That is, students currently have no opportunity to practice within the student communities high-sporting craftsmanship. And if at the heart of the pyramid is the sport in higher schools and then between higher schools competitions are guaranteed, then high sports mastery for students is not guaranteed in any form at all. We have to think about it this way. Thank you for doing this job, which many ministers have not done before you. We would like to do this, in agreement with the Commission and in broad discussions with the sports community, which is genuinely willing and concerned about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u203	Thank you, Professor. Lilkov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u204	If I may turn to you this way, colleague Lilkov, we started from a special place. Today, on my initiative was named the audience of the pioneers of the mass sport in the schools and the museums in Bulgaria...................... all of them, the pioneers and the authors of Academic........................................................ I'm talking about prof. Sunshine, Assoc. Marko Damyanov, who made the University in 1961 FISU (The World Student Sports Association) actually began to exist here. We started with a tribute to them. We want the documents to be consistent with these people from now on and the huge case that they did with their bare hands back in the day. And we have so many opportunities at the moment, including in terms of funds coming from Europe, which we have won now in words. I want to distribute them, reassign some of them to go for that too. I ask very much in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education, which you are going to consider, to record this inside and to regulate the place of sport. Is it not what it is right now that it is completely elective, because then we will not have the competitions that attract in fact young people, lower the level of testosterone and make them more educated Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Mariana Boyadjieva, Valeri Zablyanov and Georgi Tarnovalyski about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for stimulating research in the country and the support of young scientists for the implementation of technical scientific projects. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u206	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Our question to you concerns the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for stimulating research in the country and the support of young scientists for the realization of their scientific projects. The policy of the Ministry for the adoption and realization of young people in the field of science is related to the need for support. However, it is most often expressed only by providing scholarships for a certain period of time. However, the preparation of doctoral work in many cases requires means of conducting scientific experimental work. In accordance with art. Art. 47, Art. 91 of the Law on Higher Education, the state assumes the alimony of PhD students for scholarships and the preparation of their scientific developments. This includes PhD students not only in higher education institutions, but in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and in the Agricultural Academy. For research, 10% of the budget must be allocated, but in practice, only 8 million are foreseen for 2015. lv. Out of a total of 305 million BGN, which is only 2.6%. That's what the doctoral alimony is. In most cases, scientists work only on projects. They do not work with money provided by the Bulgarian state. That goes for PhD students, too. Dear Minister, are the funds provided from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science to stimulate the research of young scientists from higher schools and scientific institutions in the country? What is the vision of the Ministry of Education and Science for the development of these footage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, asked this question! I can say in a word that the welded system of stimulating young scientists in Bulgaria is under any criticism. This continues to be and cannot be done with several concrete measures, especially in times of budget cuts, to do a great deal. Among other things, the problem is not only underfinancing, especially research by under-established scientists, such as young scientists usually are. So far, things have been done and done by the Ministry with a routine procedure repeated for years: - National Contest "Young Talents" - participation of young scientists in the process of supporting international scientific forums held in Bulgaria - Bulgarian-Swiss program for scientific exchange. Work for up to 24 months of PhD students and up to 12 months of post-doctoral students that you mentioned; - under the project "Science and Business" of the Ministry of Education and Science 240 young scientists have been trained; - through the annual awards for science "Pythagoras" and the competition "Laboratoria for fame".............................................................................................. However, these measures are insufficient, I say it honestly and frankly. There's more to be done. "Science research" is currently in restructuring "to hope that it will start working better in the new composition and with some changes in its statutes." The Action Plan 2015 - 2020 in implementation of the National Research Development Strategy 2020 creates more opportunities. I would add to this the expected funds and opportunities under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." In addition to the project PhD that you are talking about, we offer or will offer to record creative leave, i.e. Sabatical for young scientists; research at all levels of the educational system, not only in BAS; unique scientific complexes and centres of excellence; international conferences; spin-off companies and the realization of technology transfer. I'll say again that this will also not solve the problems very well. In fact, we have a more ambitious programme: it is not ours, it is widely shared, I suppose, lately and in the Commission. We want to develop well the last level of what we call full or integral education in Bulgaria. What's above higher education, where is the real merger of science with business or production, let's say it with a better word, and education. Not only in the so-called Achievement Centers, which, by looking at the taste of many universities, this is not bad, but they largely create a higher science again. Rather, we have ambition, as is the French experience, for example, to focus on creating the so-called clusters. I regret that there is no Bulgarian word for this at the moment, but this is the accepted clusters, which are closer to the development of the technologies themselves, innovation, aid of the production itself and the exit of Bulgaria into the competitive environment in which it is located. We hope that this project of ours, and as an idea, in coordination, will be embedded in the corresponding amendment to the Research Promotion Act, and that is where young scientists will have significantly more opportunities. In short, we do everything we've ever done. There's no change. We've set aside the necessary funds as they were years ago. We've got more coming this year. These will also come under the Operational Program, but we believe that a more radical change to help young scientists in Bulgaria to attach them to production and technology, not only to the higher science they make it because of their dissertations, it will be. That's my answer in a nutshell, otherwise it's hours of conversation we've had.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Your "short answer" was exactly within the five minutes. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen, asking the question of two additional, supplementary questions. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, the issue was related to the funding of research and it was in the part of Doctors. Because you have said what opportunities there are for the development of young people who are hypothesis, future development, future options that may not be realized on the condition that for the doctoral students that the state has accepted to support provides scholarships but does not provide support. Excuse me, if you want to write any doctorate and finish with a science project, you need alimony. Since there is no alimony, what opportunities are we talking about, young people, to realize their scientific potential? And I'm not going to comment on the salaries they start with at the beginning of their careers. In addition, you are talking about routine activities related to stimulating research, but would you comment on the proposal you have made, the draft of the Higher Education Act, where in this CYD you provide training fees not only for students, but also for PhD students to be dramatically increased? If this is how we can get young people to continue their development in science, to develop innovations in Bulgaria, it seems to me that it is not the most appropriate situation in which we are in terms of supporting the research of PhD students. And one more question, if you'll allow me, which was put before us a few days ago. This is with regard to Regulation No 1, do you have any relation or coordination with the Ministry of Health to acquire a specialty in the healthcare system? There is a requirement for an employment contract, which means that residents have absolutely no opportunity to follow and continue their studies as PhD students. It seems to me that this is a misunderstanding that will actually create problems in health research as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Professor. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u212	As far as PhDs are concerned, doctoral alimony, we don't have any restrictions that we've already introduced this year. That's how it was, and that's how it keeps going. They have some scholarships. There is another problem, however, and this problem is that the item from the state budget, which goes to alimony for PhD students, including especially for their training, cannot and should not be mixed with other items to support the relevant higher education institutions, such as practice seems to exist. It's a dangerous transfusion from one feather to another feather. We need to figure out how to stop this thing. It's very important. We also haven't figured out what we're doing with the PhD students, which aren't small in quantity, we have numbers that don't protect in the end, not enough. To whom they owe the money they've received or, as it is now, are we letting them go lively, tighter? That responsibility isn't listed anywhere. We're talking about millions that we actually lose in the system a year. Of course, and lowering the general emotional-psychological status of higher education, which is already shaking at the moment, so by taking care of the PhD students, we need to take full care of it. The question is on top of everything divided by vibes. With people, with our colleagues from UNWE he stands one way, at Sofia University things are different. They don't, they don't! I know higher education institutions have their autonomy. This autonomy for many things is useful. She's inviolable. It refers to their activities, but when we talk about Bulgarian doctoral students, there should be common rules to be general Bulgarian and to be examined by the higher authority in this country of government and this is the National Assembly. We must add important means, legislative in the future, an initiative must be taken over and we will present to you these ideas that we have. For fees, either it will be free of charge education, free of charge in quotes, i.e. unpaid education paid by the state budget, as it is in some countries that are able to do so, or it will be closer to what is paid, whether they are state or not. I am against this huge division of state and private. Quality funding means the state to finance quality graduates. What about the others? These debates will come further. We have considered, my lady, above all, what the Rectors' Council has told us at this point. These are not things only and only the Ministry in its corridors with its specialists has proposed. Many of these things have been spoken to rectors and secretaries, as well as vice-rectors from universities, so what will be the final will be decided. For the employment contract, I am absolutely of the opinion that it should be exactly as you said it would be, but the voodoos, some medical voodoos, are racing to open schools for nurses right now. It's not a secret. Massive, intense. Of course, the noble preposition is that this is exactly the footage that flows to Western countries, starting from Vienna on. What is the guarantee that we will not produce many more to come out immediately from the first moment abroad?! [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] I can ask for movement in this direction. If new medical affiliates are to be found, this should be done either with financial mechanisms, such as their follow-up to be linked to banks that have international ways or in some other way, because otherwise I will not have the reason to sign such things because we are actually maiming Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u214	Thank you. Dear Minister, you asked more questions than we asked you. [[Radio.]] Let's get back to the subject. I hope, however, that the Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for research policy and also for the development of young people and the state must clearly define its policy. This is also related to the need not only to develop strategies, such as we adopted, a higher education strategy. The National Strategy for the Development of Science still stands on logs, but if it is not resourcefully provided, I do not see what these strategies are for, provided that the questions that we need to answer are constantly in the circle of financial insolvency, which ensures the development of our country. You pointed out that higher schools have provided support and this is true, both for scholarships and respectively for covering the costs of training, the costs of carrying out scientific experiments, but the fact is that each university has different systems to make use of these funds. There's not one with one university that has the same rules. At a university can be given the end of the year, the end of the doctorate, and this leads to a situation where you cannot carry out absolutely no control. Perhaps the Ministry of Education and Science should not only register PhD students, but control whether these funds go according to purpose. But the question was about the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy, as the colleague said. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 47, Art. 91 of the Law on Higher Education is said that the Ministry of Education and Science should provide support to PhD students and corresponding scholarships, but this does not happen for years. There are 106 PhD students in the Agricultural Academy, 633 in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This question would not have been put to you now if it had not been for the desperate funding in Budget 2015. The budget in BAS was reduced by 5 million. lv. compared to the budget of 2014. The Agricultural Academy was reduced by 4 million. lv. This will affect both the quality of training and the experiments and the research to be done in 2015. I therefore appeal to really find ways and opportunities to implement the law and to adequately finance these educational and scientific institutions for the development of young people and PhD students. Otherwise, if we only continue to talk about how finances are not, how funds are limited, we risk being last in innovation in the country and implementing these products in the Bulgarian economy. Therefore, the priority of education and science is to be backed up and our cooperation will be precisely in this direction - not only laws, but also adequate funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I have taken the liberty of extending your time more than a minute due to the importance of the subject that you have touched on, but I ask you to comply with the provisions laid down in the Rules in the future. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Valeri Zablyanov and Mariana Boyadjieva on a procedure for transformation from state to municipal of four professional high schools in the city. Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u216	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! A month ago, the mayor of Plovdiv municipality told the Plovdiv media that four of the eleven professional high schools in the city would become municipal. Moreover, during the round table Education, innovations and investments at the Technical University of Plovdiv, in March this year the city chief assured that this procedure had already been started. In his words it concerned the following professional high schools: Professional High School of Electronics and Electrical Engineering, Professional High School of Mechanotechnics, Professional School of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy and Professional School of Transport. The mayor motivated the request for transfer of the mentioned educational institutions from the Ministry of Education and Science to the Municipality of Plovdiv with the argument that the municipality of Plovdiv will be able to sanitize the buildings, will help in the professional training and better connection with the business. The logic of Plovdiv municipality is interesting. Only a year ago, the Plovdiv Sports School was transferred to the state of Plovdiv on the grounds that the municipal budget could not support the material base of the institution. The financial framework of the municipality of Plovdiv is no different than the previous year to afford the maintenance of four schools, and why exactly these four out of eleven professional high schools in the city? Worried by the media speeches of the mayor Plovdivcani in our reception room commented and another interesting fact.. two of the mentioned professional high schools are close to hotel Imperial. The professional school of transport has already split with part of its yard to pass the way to the hotel in question. The other "Professional High School of Construction, Architecture and Geodesy" managed to win in court the case with which Plovdiv Municipality's request to demolish a greenhouse centre and greenhouses in the school yard was rejected. Probably because they don't fit into the view from the hotel Imperial. Those are the comments of the Plovdiv public. Dear Minister, our question to you is: is there any action taken and what are the reasons of Plovdiv Municipality for restructuring the four professional schools of state in municipal educational institutions, will you authorise these procedures and will your professional education office abdicate, given the expert opinions that it should be state policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u217	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Here you go, Professor. Tanev, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The letter we received with No 01-01-109 is dated May 4th this year. This is a letter from the mayor of Plovdiv municipality concerning a request for a change in the financing of professional high schools from Plovdiv region. We are doing our best to refresh our knowledge of these cases because, in fact, the property that we are talking about is the property that we are talking about. Kamen Petkov "No 1" has a dispute with the municipality of Plovdiv, which is not from yesterday. There are destroyed buildings and workshops of the school on the street. "Brothers Sveshtrovs " for the continuation of the street, for which the Ministry of Education and Science has repeatedly given, at different times, refusal. The professional high school of transport is leading lawsuits in order to protect the interests of state property. Out of a total of 372 professional high schools in the country to this year with state status are 318, 76 "of funding from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, 242 are funded by the Ministry of Education and Science, 54 are municipal. I give these numbers to you to understand that the Ministry actually cares, and you have to take care of most of them. You can see that recently, regardless of the existence of lawsuits, construction is being practiced in the yard of the former Technicum, currently the Professional High School of Electronics in the district. "Iztok" which is known as "John Atanasov." They're building, even though there are cases the mayor filed. For me it is a real horror when outside, in the yard of a Bulgarian school, something is being done, after this yard long ago has the status of a yard and one must remain. It's not real estate. For example if 20 leva. In some ways they are diverted from weapons, I suppose it is high treason, but the same nominal value of 20 leva, diverted from school, represents marauding. We're not backing down. The answer to the question is that we will investigate. The letter was received on the 5th. The lawyers are looking at it now. You will receive a written answer as to what we have decided. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u219	Please, Mr. Turnover. You'll have your chance. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u220	Dear Minister, I have not received any answer from you to a specific question. Will you take action and allow the transfer from state to municipal schools? The interest here seems to be very familiar to you. It is personal to Mr. Mayor, associated with the family hotel. The school management appealed in the court in November 2012 and the court ruled in favour of the school. I don't know what construction, what weapons we're talking about. The provisions given by the municipality are fulfilled. At the moment, the Professional High School has won a project under the Program I can build, which will be realized with the sponsorship of the Chamber of Builders in the school yard. In this high school they study 1000 students in six majors. Close links with the business are maintained and over 80% of graduates are realized. It is believed that the municipality takes action to convert into municipal property because it will then easily dispose of the courtyards of schools by a decision of the municipal council, which is dominated by GERB, naturally. The yards of the Construction Technicum and the Automobile need them, as construction of a large parking lot and pool is planned in the family hotel. These have put me in trouble with the Plovdiv citizens. The school guide was warned by the Regional Education Inspectorate not to blow the case because the principal would be fired and the pedagogical staff would be replaced. Teachers are afraid and beg not to mention that the information was received from them. And at the Round Table, which I quoted to you, the Deputy Minister of Education Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov, who attended the forum, described the idea of the municipality as interesting and added that this would be an opportunity for local authorities to define the policy of training in these schools. The municipality will determine the training policy in schools! And the mayor says that by becoming municipal, for these schools the municipality will determine curriculums, study plans and the entire learning process. I look forward to your reply.. Will you support this request, even though the municipality's request is from May 4th? You must have an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u221	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u222	Mr. Turnovallisky, you rightly ask me for an exact answer in the form of a legal document. In order for me to do that, we need to look at the case. Then I'll be exact and send it to you in writing. At this point, I said that the general principle is that school courts are not to be touched, and they must remain as they are. I already said that. I said it's marauding. It's clear as a position. In principle, there are ongoing lawsuits, as far as they have reported to me, which you have also quoted. That, too, should be borne in mind. We as the Ministry will defend ourselves. In this case, however, I do not know what parking is. I just found out about this thing. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.]] Nor is it our business. It is our job to protect students who are a large number of 1012, 848. These are big schools, right at a time when we want to develop vocational education as a priority in relation to business. That's exactly what we're doing. In my opinion, it is not a good time for everything to be subject to goals that are lower than the great national goal of having a vocational education. We will look carefully at the matter with outside lawyers if necessary. Nothing illegal will be done. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.]] I can't get involved right now because I don't know the case fully. It'll probably be what you say. The intuition, my intention is that, but I need to see his legal bases, because there are lawyers who say how things won't work, and exactly the gays who say how it's gonna work, no matter what. I'm looking for lawyers who'll tell me how I'm gonna do what I want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u223	I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u224	Thank you, Minister Tanev. We move on to a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov regarding optimization of the criteria set out in the rating system for evaluation of educational directions. Here you go, Professor. Stankov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u225	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In the last few years, Bulgarian universities have applied the rating ranking in which these higher schools, which receive the highest grades, receive an additional subsidy. This is great because there are leading majors at Thracian University that have received good funds. The rating system played a positive role. The material base improved, the quality of training of students, the quality of research products. There are already publications abroad. But this system also has some imperfections that need to be taken into account in order to become more objective. For example, one indicator is the monthly average income that cannot be considered objective. There are great differences in the different areas between the different specialties. In some specialties, the assessment of this indicator is artificially reduced. The prestige, which is appreciated by other universities, is also not an objective enough indicator. There are also some other things, some inaccuracies in terms of the nomenclature of specialties, realization. I can point out examples where colleagues who have graduated from agrarian specialties are realized in the industry with a small additional qualification, which has been taken back to us, and this is not reported as work on the specialty. My question is: what is the Ministry of Education and Science's assessment of the applied rating system in higher education and what adjustments will the Ministry propose for the creation of a more objective and fair system for evaluation of higher schools and relevant educational directions and qualification degrees in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u226	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly!? My fellow Member, I fully understand your question. It has been a question for years for the entire scientific and teaching community to which we have been counted for decades. The rating system is currently perceived as a key tool for what is expected to be a funding for quality education. The rating system each time, every year of its existence, is complemented and changed. It is now the fourth edition, for which the specialists who were invited to the Ministry to explain it together with the political cabinet, claim to be much more perfect than the original. My impression is the same, i.e. to trust that this functioning rating system is now much better than the initial version, which means that in future years there will be much better options than this one right now. Swimming sands aren't always the best thing. It would be nice when a system, an instrument bends against the winds to endure, not when it improves all the time, because that means that most of the time it is not perfect. There's one more thing. The rating system can be a very good tool for example, but it is an instrument. When we measure a school where scientific products are produced and together with educational products we have educational, prestigious and whatnot, I doubt that their common misleading is possible. In this case, the common denominator will be quite impossible because we don't measure an example of just teaching or just doing science as if. For this reason, it should be in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education that the Members of the National Assembly, of course, supported to what extent it is possible by the experts of the Ministry and myself personally, to do our best to improve quality measurement, where the rating system is not the only and unconditional instrument to be supplemented with another. The rating system helps likely to finance higher schools better, in the sense gradually more about quality. However, if we are financing quality according to the rating system at the moment, with the unchanged management structure of the same higher education institutions, we are doing almost nothing special. I stress that the current Law, which says that faculties are basically a structural unit, and the faculty consists of very intelligent people with high IQs, but as a group one specialty does not understand enough when proposals are made for study plans, judges of another specialty. That is, the combined scientific value of the decisions of the faculty councils is indecently low. The same goes for academic councils. We also know the political way in which the guidance of the vouses is chosen. Give such a structure the money under the priority programme and they will go to the old possible structures. So it is time to add to the rating and some criteria related to the good structuring of higher education institutions, which has nothing to do with the rating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The answer is very competent, highly competent, I'd say. You know the rating system very well. I do not deny that it played its positive role, I do not deny that every year it improves, but there are still some weaknesses that need to be taken into account the average income, the prestige that is being made. Other universities give an assessment of the prestige of some of the provincials. As I observe, the grades are always lower because there's a lack of recognition. There must be some kind of correction here. It is also very important to take into account the additional sub-sectors where specialists work. Those who have gone to the industry, I said about the zoo engineers, it is believed that they should only work on farm farms. And that is not the case in the feed industry where they produce feed for animals, meat, milk and other industries, so this must be taken into account. One more thing that is desirable to bear in mind. The indicator calculations of a survey database represent 47%. We've calculated this very carefully. This largely leads to some subjectiveism. So there has to be a correction here, too. The boundaries of some of the most important indicators are not clearly defined. It's a very small limit. There has to be some tolerance, and that has to be taken into account. For example, national social security income, unemployment, and other......................................................................... After careful review of the assessments on the individual indicators, it turns out that they are from zero to one hundred, but when we start to calculate by all indicators and indicators, if there is zero, then the preliminary estimate is 13, which means that we should also look at it. I believe that with joint efforts, with our help and assistance, we will make a well-functioning, fair system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u230	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u231	Thank you. I won't take long, but this is also one of my favorite subjects. We did everything we could to get out, to extract only objective ones from the rating system. This is what we have staked on the Law on Higher Education, which will be handed down to you, which already exists somewhere on the pages. We've tried, but then everything gets very narrow. I have a feeling the rating system is currently in place, let's say cautious, I'd say cowardly. She's too, intentionally bloated to have it all. It is not very clear the mutual burden that would happen to be a very diplomatic document which ultimately does not measure particularly well the specifics of each higher education institution. Here are the military, enter the arts, and enter a full university like Sofia University, and there are those who are very accurate as medicine. You can't do it with the same rating. I fully understand you, which is why we need to take out the basics, but further add it with other criteria that are for structuring so that the money that we have won and will come from Europe to go to its final purpose. Their destination is the quality not university, but the quality product of the person, the specialist produced by this university. Because a good university is the one who made a good shot of the state, the good professional. I think so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u232	Thank you, Professor. Tanev. We are going to ask the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for determining the criteria for selection of academic staff in the higher schools and scientific institutes in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u233	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This is a question that excites the academic community, academics. The Law on the Development of the Academic Board has been applied over the last few years, and there are a lot of imperfections. During a short period of time, many, repeatedly increased the habilitated staff, professors, and professors. I can give you an example of the university where I'm a lecturer. In four years ago, this same university with the same composition produced about five professors. For a period of four years, we have 51 professors. It has happened that the jury is our people, people who will never refuse and give the appropriate degree. Something else that is disturbing has greatly devalued the scientific degree of Doctor of Science. There are very few people who are now going to this degree, and this should be leading and defining. So there are a lot of things that need to be taken into account, you have to make the appropriate adjustments, because there are indeed very light indicators on which the choice takes place. In return, the transition from assistant to assistant assistant is incredibly difficult. Once the assistants took an exam to get into high school, which is not mandatory, but is done in many places. Then, when defending the dissertation and making all the exams, the candidate minimum, they must again pass the exam for the chief assistant. Our questions are: Will the Ministry of Education and Science take the necessary and expected measures for the normal growth and development of the academic staff in Bulgaria according to the current requirements and world trends? This is going to be like a first question, then I'm going to put more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u234	For an answer there is the word Minister of Education Prof. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u235	Thank you. To your question: a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Science to amend and supplement the Law on the Development of the Academic Board is on the website of the Ministry and you know it. The idea of creating this document, which has already gone through coordination with the other ministries, is to do so in a way that respects the autonomy of higher schools, which is not cosmetic, but really complements the missing or whimsical moments in the current law, which has gained enough weight for several years, people have become accustomed to it. He certainly has qualities compared to the one that was before for scientific degrees and titles. We hope that these few measures that we have proposed will be sufficient. More or less, they are: national criteria. I pay attention to the difference between state and national, because the Supreme Testimonial Commission was a state body that ruled this. We are talking here about national criteria made by the scientific authorities themselves, i.e. unifying the free universities. That's a whole other thing. There's no... The Ministry of Education retains its function only as a holder of the fact that the procedures are legal. Another thing: the competition data, including narcometric data and other data on those who have passed them, will be held for no less than two years we offer on a corresponding page, which will be prepared by NACD.. Mrs. Grashina, on the 8th kilometer. That is, every two years after the procedure, it will be able to have full information in full transparency of what it was like. We refer to the possibility and members of the jury to be only by such scientists or lecturers who comply with the national criteria in question. We hope that measures that are on the page of this variety, which I now illustrate, are not so short the text so that I can quote it all at the moment, that it will contribute to improving the procedures that are currently in place. Provided, however, that this is not sufficient, it does not prevent the National Assembly, as the Ministry to introduce further at a certain point other criteria further, if necessary. Why don't we just play it all at once? Because we have no accurate idea, it is not possible to assess the impact of a much more comprehensive project. Here we can easily slide along the tilted plane to be too conservative and to resemble the times of EVA. So we allowed ourselves to start with something that stepped on consensus. We've spoken to rectors, we've spoken to MPs, including the opposition. No one has ever been ignored in this. It will be debated, hopefully it will be for good, because otherwise Bulgaria will not have a competitive education of this quality. The bad lecturers, those who are not up to date, with science, consider everything only a lecture, i.e. reading, what is done elsewhere, one time, in other times, no longer help Bulgaria. But let's not forget that in fact our VUMs, Bulgarians, are good enough after so many Bulgarian scientists find work outside. Our work is half done if we keep the good traditions and complement with something that time requires as a correction, not as a radical revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For two additional supplementary supplementary questions, you have the floor, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you to Mr. Minister. He answered some of the questions that I had written down in advance, but I am still pleased that work is also being done on the problem of the jury, because it is insane to offer by the department the closest people who will appreciate the candidate. Also for the small doctoral dissertations it is insane for the scientific supervisor to be on the jury. That he will always be addicted, has a certain voice in advance. So you answered my question about the jury. I would just like to hear about the chief assistants' transition from assistant to assistant assistant Seven-eight exams take priors before receiving the doctor's degree. So this is pointless. It is a very big reaction of colleagues, I have even been ordered to place it, and now I want to ask you what your opinion is, how we are going to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u238	Thank you. The Minister of Education and Science Mr. Tanev has the floor to answer the supplementary questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u239	After graduation, colleague, I'll give it to you personally in writing, and they're bringing it to me right now. As far as assistant chief assistant's concerned. In the old days, I, as well as many of those present in the hall, have appeared without asking whether or not we should have appeared at a competition. True, times are different now, and there is no such division around the world to three degree assistants. The doctorate to be supplemented by a competition this became quite complicated and probably means the situation in some higher education institutions, but unfortunately it was imposed on existing others, where it does not matter at all. I mean, it's an added value. Therefore, I do not personally support such complexity. It should be done more democraticly. Let's get the big screening going from the habilitation to the next. Including if one day we can get to categorized pay of teaching or differentiated, as they say, about these higher education institutions they want. Otherwise, what we have offered, I will now give it to you in writing. The minimum national... the register, the electronic database that will stand for all persons who pass procedures, see educational institutions to be able to set in their rules additional requirements for applicants, the evaluation of the thesis of candidates for academic position shall be carried out by the jury only by persons who meet the minimum national requirements. The members of the jury will be elected by persons who are habilitated in Bulgarian, if possible in the respective direction and speciality in the register of 2,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The information stands for two years at the NACIT. During the procedures, the Ministry and the Minister shall exercise control over the eligibility of candidates and so on. It is also a matter of your will, Members of the National Assembly, that we do things as we know they must be and we are convinced by our long experience as teachers. The Ministry can only support this thing. I'll support him, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u240	Thank you. For your response please come in, prof. Stankov, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u241	Thank you. In a nutshell. I am extremely satisfied with the answers the Minister has given. However, we believe that some things need to happen that are interfering with work. These things we've discussed at the Academic Council. We believe that it is necessary to establish a governing body...... will it be a committee?................................. Of course, I am far from thinking about returning that situation that we have been going through, that nightmare, but there are controversial issues that have no one to solve. I said that 51 professors have happened during this short period of time, but I sign because the jury is all perfect, excellent grades are always given. No way, we can't stop people. Once, however, there are controversial issues that we cannot resolve and we are going to court to solve them. I don't think it's normal for the court to solve our problems. We have three cases like this at Thracian University where the court has decided. We believe that it will be a good regulatory body to rule on these problematic issues. One more thing my colleagues have ordered for the teachers who are wheels. The issue of the scientific position to be given is decided to be for the individual university. But other universities give the same position to one person, he teaches in several places and counts as an academic staff in several places, which is insane. If we clean things up, a lecturer to be a representative of a university will not stop, he can go to lectures and classes, but take account of a basic employment contract in one place. This will be important and it is good to bear in mind further. Then things will be regulated and you'll see who is, who is. Please keep these suggestions in mind. We will also talk to you in advance, but the goal is to achieve what needs to be in higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-22.u242	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Mr. Minister, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control with which you have fulfilled your constitutional obligations. Messages of parliamentary control on 26 May 2015, Tuesday, 11:00 to 17.00 P.M. 1. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer eight questions from MPs Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] , Nikolay Alexandrov, Krasimir Yankov, Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , and Martin Dimitrov [[2 questions]] . 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer 11 questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Krasimir Yankov [[two questions]] , Georgi Bozhinov, Borislav Iglev, Alexander Metodiev, Martin Dimitrov, Philip Popov, Slavi Binev, Georgi Svilenski, and Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov. 3. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer nine questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Slavi Binev, Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , Georgi Svilenski, Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev, Miho Mihov, Martin Dimitrov, and Petar Kadiev. 4. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 19 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmed Ataman, Nikolay Alexandrov, Mariana Georgieva, Dora Yankova, Zhelyo Boychev [[two questions]] , Petar Kanev, Cornelia Ninova, Ivan Slavov Ivanov, Petar Slavov [[two questions]] , Manol Genov, Hussein Hafuzov, Krasimir Yankov, Nevin Hassan, Mihail Mikov, Slavi Binev, and Rumen Yonchev and two questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, and Manol Genov. 5. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 22 questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, Dimitar Delchev [[two questions]] Boris Yachev, Svetla Bachvarova [[three questions]] , Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Rumen Hristov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Slavi Binev, Maya Manolova [[two questions]] , Vili Lilkov, Georgi Kadiev, Mihail Mikov, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Iglev, Ivan Stankov, Kiril Yankov, and Philip Popov and a question by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dora Yankova. 6. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer five questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, Petar Slavov, Manol Genov, Vladimir Toshev, and Milen Mihov. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer eight questions from the MPs Ercan Ebatin, Slavi Binev, Georgi Bozhinov [[three questions]] , Lyubomir Vladimirov, Manol Genov and, Georgi Turnovaliyski and the people's ideas Chavdar Georgiev. 8. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Willi Lilkov and one question from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov. 9. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer two questions from the MPs Boris Yachev, and Stanislav Stanilov. 10. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Jayhan Ibryamov, and Lyubomir Vladimirov. 11. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer six questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] , Jayhan Ibryamov, Vladimir Toshev, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Igev. 12. Education and Science Minister Todor Tanev will answer five questions from MPs Borislav Iglev, Dora Yankova, Cornelia Marinova [[two questions]] , and Kalina Balabanova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the postponement of replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question with a written answer from the MP Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions with written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Georgi Bojinov, and Georgi Kadiev, and to one question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and four questions with written answer from the MPs Kalina Balabanova [[two questions]] , Stephanie Mihailova, and Metodi Andreyev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Emil Raynov, and Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - five questions from the MP Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova and to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski and Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly at 11.00 p.m. Due to the expiry of the time scheduled for work by the National Assembly, I am closing the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
