ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I suggest to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 8 to 10 July 2015 as follows: 1. Project for a solution for the opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov Importer: Council of Ministers. 2. Project for a decision to convert the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski. Importer: Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Importers: Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. Continued the meeting on Friday. 4. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the submission of a candidate for a sub-government................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer: Budget and Finance Committee. 5. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing and the candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. Importer: Commission of Religions and Human Rights. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Registration Act "A General Project" drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at first vote. Exporters: Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; the Council of Ministers is a second bill; Maya Manolova and a group of MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Importers: Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on the Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Criminal Court for Relocation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to witnesses of the Court of Justice. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. A bill to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. A bill ratifying the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, concerning Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland for the second commitment period from the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Importer: Council of Ministers. 16. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. 17. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer: Council of Ministers. 18. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer: Council of Ministers. 19. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income. Importer: Council of Ministers. 20. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. Importer: Council of Ministers. 21. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, starting from 11.00 to 17.00 p.m. Control until 17.00 on this Friday and next until the end of this session. Voting mode. Vote 169 MPs: 132, against 26, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Proposals have been made in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules. The first at the time was by Mr. Mihail Mikov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes that the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on personal income tax submitted by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs should be included this week. Here you are, Mr. Mikov, to protect the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I propose that in this modest of 21 points, to a high extent a non-executable program for the week, we include a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on taxation of personal incomes known as progressive taxation, known as bringing more justice to the incomes of workers under employment contracts, because it provides for workers under employment contracts up to two average salaries for the country or around BGN 1500. to get relief. It's obvious that the revenue section is going well. It is known that at this time of the year the budgetary procedure begins and it is good to consider this law before the vacation to be reflected in the forecasts that will justify the budget for next year. Most of all, it is necessary for people who work on a contract of employment. You know that in Bulgaria labour income is the lowest in Europe. You know it kills the economy and ruins society. For this reason, it is necessary for this Bill to find a place on the agenda of the National Assembly for the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I put the proposal to the vote. They voted 159 MPs: 51, against 60, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a formal proposal to re-vote, as some of my fellow Members have not been able to vote. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again the social importance of this Bill and its exceptional timeliness to be examined within this session. Please very much support this Bill because it really gives greater justice to taxing different individuals with different incomes. Those with smaller incomes will receive some reliefs, and those with larger incomes and can bear a greater tax burden, respectively, will bear it. Therefore, once again, I would like to invite you to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u5	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 160 MPs: 51, against 64, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. The next offer is Mrs Cornelia Ninova's. It is included in the weekly program. This is about a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. A few messages. Bills and draft decisions submitted from 1 to 7 July 2015: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Decision adopting Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom). Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2014 in the field of electronic communications. The Communications Regulation Commission is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill to amend the Law on Radio and Television. Importers: Krasimir Velchev, Daniel Kirilov and Polina Karastoyanova. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Energy. Draft decision for the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "National Security" for 2014. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Project for a decision for adoption of the National Strategy for Sustainable Agriculture Development in Bulgaria. Importers: Ivan Stankov and a group of MPs. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Floor Property Management. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. He's waiting for distribution. The bill was submitted yesterday at the end of the day, in late afternoon hours. Draft decision for suspension of the public procedure for the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, opened with the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for the election of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly of 10 June 2015, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 44 from 16 June 2015. Importer is Velizar Enchev. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance. The Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly on 2 July 2015. It was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the Members of the National Assembly in the Library. There's a word for procedure, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u6	Mrs. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I am making a procedural proposal to dismiss this. 3 on the agenda a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Two groups of reasons: the first one, we have been carefully acquainted with the Commission's Report at second reading. There are definitely texts that stand outside the subject matter and scope of the bills adopted at first reading. At first reading, many bills were rejected. Now, for a second reading, rejected texts are offered and we will practically enter into voting mode at one reading. You know about this limitation in the Rules. The more substantial argument relates to the results of the referendum in Greece. I believe that all parties in the Forty-third National Assembly need to rethink the consequences of this instrument, especially when referendums are held not on value, but on purely expert topics. I think we need to read the lesson of the referendum from neighbouring Greece and then proceed to discuss and vote on such proposals as are contained in the Second Reading Report and, above all, the texts that alleviate the conditions under which the outcome of the referendum will be binding to the National Assembly, i.e. it will be binding. In the DPS, we know why all this is being done. In a timely declaration, we will reveal a scenario that is undoubtedly underway. Today's adoption of amendments to the Law on referendums aims to ensure the implementation of this dangerous for the young Bulgarian democracy scenario. Therefore, I call on you to drop this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u7	A reverse opinion? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My opposite opinion on the first part of the arguments that were shared in the procedural proposal The proposals to be discussed are not outside the scope of the bill adopted at first reading, on the contrary, fully complement it. Without entering into a detailed argument, I will repeat very briefly: our proposals mainly concern the possibility for Bulgarians abroad to participate in a referendum and settlement of the principle rules regarding holding a referendum at the same time with another type of elections. So all the proposals adopted by the Legal Commission and reflected in the Report are subject to this scope and resolve these issues. We will enter into a specific debate on the individual provisions, which I will now save. Of course, we're developing, I'd say, a whole new procedure. Yes, it is the result of discussions at first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u9	We are voting on Mr. Mestan's proposal to drop out of our weekly agenda on this. 3 The second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Vote 172 MPs: 62, against 61, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u10	I propose a re-vote with a call to the parliamentary groups outside of GERB. The amendments to this Law are directly related to the referendum initiated by the Head of State for a change in the electoral rules and are ultimately aimed at introducing a mixed proportional, majority electoral system, and we warn: even in the requested version, a two-thirds proportional and a third majority system, the direct effect will be that the first political force by 40% will exercise its own, one-party governance. All the other parties will lose to their real according to the vote representation. You take heavy political responsibility for the consequences that young Bulgarian democracy will suffer after the scenario is realized to the end. As for the counterarguments of colleague Kirilov, he, at least, is incorrect, I will not use stronger expressions. At first reading only one law was adopted.. that of GERB, and there is no order nor for the number of signatures with which the referendum should be convened mandatory, nor for the conditions under which the outcome of the referendum should be mandatory. These issues were settled in other laws that were rejected. This makes an unacceptable number of proposals in the report. So, both formally and on the ground of substance, the point should be removed from the agenda and the Commission should reconsider its report. It's a re-vote. Thank you. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u11	It's a re-vote. They voted 170 MPs: for 69, against 57, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I am making a procedure for changing the items on the agenda: 7 which has been submitted for the fourth time the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition, to become item 3, etc. 3, respectively become ct. 7 on the agenda. It is obvious that after you rejected the Law on personal income tax in the programme.................................................................................................. 7, I repeat, who enters the National Assembly for the fourth time, but we never get to it. This bill does not concern only business, it concerns every Bulgarian consumer. Please support my proposal to prove that if we really are MPs, the program of the National Assembly is not different from the programme of the society and every Bulgarian citizen. My procedure is: 7 to become c. 3, respectively. 3 to become t. 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u13	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal, not to repeat it, I think everyone understood it, it was clear enough. They voted 163 MPs: 62, against 64, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u14	Dear colleagues, the Law on Protection of Competition will surely set a record of a continuous presence on the agenda and that it does not come to it. We insist on the Law to enter because in the current environment Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian producers are placed in an increasingly unequal position with the others. You're all aware of the problem with retail chains. I don't understand why you're delaying the question.! And the matter of Mr. President's referendum will come to pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u15	Revoting! They voted 164 MPs: 64, against 63, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kazak's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u16	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to move items on the agenda with a view to previous votes and speeches, which have shown that the thesis and criticisms on the relevance and legal suitability of the report for the second reading of the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local authorities do not allow it to be viewed in this form. I'm making a procedural proposal. 3 to become t. 20 and the points up to 20 move one backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u17	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Kazak's proposal. 3 to become t. 20 like the others move one step further. They voted 161 MPs: 58, against 81, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. A declaration on behalf of a group, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Lutvi Mestan, 9. Multi-mandated electoral region Kardzhali, Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I deliberately resort to the stylistics of this expression, known since the dawn of democracy, when the speakers of this tribune highlighted explicitly the multi-mandated electoral area and the political power from which they were elected when they took the floor to say something important. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I will make an important call and an even stronger warning regarding the results of the referendum in Greece, which has shaken the European Union. The results of the referendum in Greece have their dimensions for both the integrity of the European Union and perhaps not the conscious internal political dimensions for Bulgaria. You have seen that when the representative authorities resort to the referendum to hide their own political responsibility behind the sovereign, there may be consequences for both the national state and the integrity of the European Union. I don't know if you've read the question Greek citizens were supposed to answer. I would like to say to you that even medium-class lawyers would find it difficult to give an informed answer with a.................................... to this question................................................ The first conclusion is that it is better to have referendums more often, but not on expert topics, but on value issues to complement responsibility or to correct representative power in one country or another. Yet the European Union can endure the Greek crisis, but another referendum is yet to come. The real challenge for the integrity of the European Union, we believe, is the upcoming referendum in the UK next year. If English citizens also vote with no regard to whether the United Kingdom should remain in the European Union, there will indeed be a risk to the integrity of the European Union. The conclusion is: the European Union, based on subsequent referendums, on which to review decisions already taken by the representative authorities, cannot survive. Processes of disintegration of the integrity of the European Union and young democracies from the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe will inevitably be unleashed and will lose their main motive for further deployment and strengthening. They'll stay in the gray area between East and West. Let's use an example of ours. Can you imagine, for example, putting Bulgaria back to creditors after years of referendum on the 16 billion loan that we voted on in this plenary? [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] I am not criticising the loan because we supported it. But do you imagine after 10 years a next populist majority in the National Assembly to ask the Bulgarian people whether Bulgaria should return this loan to the creditors? You know what the result of this referendum will be? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then what about the international treaty? What about international law? Ladies and gentlemen! I said that the internal political dimensions of the results of the referendum in Greece are more important, and they relate to whether the parties in the Forty-third National Assembly are ready to read the lesson of this referendum, whether we should refrain from this voluntarism, which is also contained in the report of the Legal Committee on the topic. 3 on the agenda. Madam President, I'm not gonna talk about this. 3. I will just say that the purpose of the Bulgarian referendum on election rules is very clear. Aims by changing the electoral rules I also address my colleagues from ABB because they consolidatedly supported the stay of the item on the agenda by introducing a mixed proportional majority system to change the country's management patterns. By easing the conditions for recognising the mandatory nature of the referendums, this National Assembly will be forced to introduce a mixed electoral system. Even in a reduced version, two thirds proportionally elected MPs and one third 80 majority elected MPs, the result will be the following. Imagine the first political force...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u19	Mr. Mestan, I apologize, but this topic cannot be the subject of a declaration since there is such a text in our Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u20	No, I'm not talking about the referendum law, I'm talking about the president's proposal for the referendum. Make a difference. Imagine, I'm saying that a political force that collects 40% of the effective votes, i.e. the 4 per cent jump barrier in a 100% proportional system, will win 40 times 240. 96 mandates. This suggests a coalition formula of power. In the case of a pro rata majority system, the same political force will take only 64 of the proportional mandates, but in Bulgarian conditions. How many of the one-mandated regions will be won by the first political force? I could ask both the right and the left and the other left and the national populists. Shall I tell you? seventy-five out of 80 mandates will be the first political force. Tell me how many one-mandated areas will you defeat GERB? You won't be able to. Sixty-four plus seventy-five with the same result of 40% convincing one-party rule. Is that what you want, colleagues on the right, is that what you want, colleagues on the left? Is that what the ABB colleagues want? [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, do not refer to the German model. It has nothing to do with what will happen in Bulgaria. In Germany, the mixed system is essentially proportional, because if the Reformation Block has 10%, it will win 24 mandates even if it has won zero one-mandated regions. It's the truth! And the first political force, if it is given 96 mandates and wins 80 one-sided of the other 160 proportional, will take only 16 and not 64. This is the German model. Incorrectly, manipulatively refer to it. There is a scenario for the introduction of one-party governments by changing the electoral rules, only that the one-party governments in Bulgaria are degenerating into the governments with authoritarian elements and indeed then the Ministry of Interior can prove not only the person that even what was it like? The soul of the modern Bulgarian state. [[Applause from DPS.]] What heights of thought, what apologetics of democratic thought! However, we understand the strong state as a democratic and not as a power state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I therefore call for consensus on all the other parties to read this scenario very carefully and today to vote responsibly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u21	On behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also try on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria to raise the theme of the ratio between direct and representative democracy. It is much wider and does not close either in the amendments to the Law on Direct Participation, which we will consider, nor in the initiative for the upcoming referendum on electoral rules. Here our understanding of the referendum, which took place at the end of the week in Greece, is different not only because of the popular maxim: Because these people had the power to oppose the imposed long years of neoliberal policy of the interests of large financial institutions, which, through a series of credits, exhausted the country's economy. They have opposed European bureaucracy, which has entered the momentum of previous years, in many cases does not take account of the real interests of the countries and of European citizens. So we need a European Union that is not just a union of large corporations, of financial speculative capital, but a Europe where there are opportunities for economic development in which people can trust in the institutions; a Europe that combines the efforts of countries with the institutions of the European Union. And notice, this result was achieved by immense pressure and mass manipulation. Because the pressure was coming from outside, the pressure was coming from sociological agencies that you saw dramatically trying to change the real public opinion. The pressure was coming from almost all media and it continues, notice, and today in Bulgaria. Watch some of the televisions seriously represent the situation in Greece, under the inscription: The tragedy in Greece, when people are really pronounced in a difficult financial situation with economic deprivation sometimes. But is this a tragedy? And when the war was going on in Yugoslavia, when bombings were taking place, the same television informed us under the inscription: "The crisis in Kosovo." So, notice, when people are killed, this is a crisis when citizens are pronounced on issues that affect their lives. This is a tragedy. These are the big questions. Nevertheless, people tried to express their opinion. We now expect the Greek Government and the European institutions to urgently seek a solution that is really responsible because we know that the bills must be paid, but we also know that this must be done in view of people's abilities. And since the example of the 16 billion loan was used, which was voted here, BSP is a responsible political force, it will not raise the question of whether Bulgaria will pay. But why do you think that the Bulgarian citizens at some point will not raise the question whether those who support such loans should pay them jointly tomorrow? They're on their own! So such a question may be asked by citizens one day to answer. And it should be known that when officials sign something, when they make decisions, and these decisions prove to be in a number of cases illegal or grossly contrary to national interests, someone has to be responsible. Bulgarian citizens want this. They want to rule on issues that affect them economically and socially, not only on issues that affect the political system and electoral rules. Is it even so important whether politicians will be elected or appointed if someone else dictates their decisions, whether economic groups, external factors and so on? So even the issue of elections in itself is not so important. Elections alone cannot save democracy. They are only a condition, only one of the mandatory pillars of this democracy, but this pillar can be demolished if the others that are involved do not act and which challenge true trust. This game must be carried out very carefully. I will remind you of the Polish case of the presidential elections, when, after the first round, the President-in-Office decided to unite the votes of a musician far away from politics, who criticised all that exists, used the discontent of the people, bet on direct democracy, and the President decided between the two rounds to raise the issue of a referendum. Notice, out of the three questions, what were the two? One is whether to switch to choice in one-sided electoral districts and the other to eliminate state subsidies for political parties. Not only did he convincingly lose the second round of elections, but now, as a result of the decision adopted, there will be such a referendum in Poland at the beginning of September, and the parliamentary elections will be at the end of October. This proves something else, too, that in a sufficiently good organisation, it is not necessary in many cases to combine completely different topics for the selection of representatives and for the resolution of issues that are put before citizens in referendums. Therefore, we must consider all this very carefully. We need to put a question to the ruling party... does it support such fascisoid ideas launched by the mayor of a district town that openly advocates that some of the people with electoral rights should not vote and should not be voted in certain places? Is this your future line for the development of democracy, not to fight the purchase of votes and to remove the reasons for this, but to remove whole groups of Bulgarian society? These are the big questions that need to be answered. That is why I believe that we should act not in a conjunctual way, but to realise that direct democracy is necessary when it contributes citizens to getting involved in political life and not to be used as a means of erosion of institutions and especially of representative ones. Honourable Members, the issues are very serious and if we really want Bulgaria to have stability, development and restore trust in the state, this country itself must be set up in a way that does not act against its own citizens. Therefore, by welcoming the efforts of many peoples and citizens in Europe to take fate into their own hands, to directly pronounce themselves on the most important issues, let us also do so in Bulgaria, but to do so so so that we do not destroy what has been created over the past years as efforts for democratic development, but to place the participation of citizens in the process of deeply reforming and restoring trust in the country itself and from there to its institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u23	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block (BCC), Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! The categorical response to the referendum held in Greece on July 5th undoubtedly expresses the sovereign will of the Greek people in support of the Greek government, but does not resolve either the Greek crisis or the destabilisation of the Greek state or the general destabilization of South and South East Europe. The European Union is, and must remain, a community based on common responsibilities, obligations and principles. Among them, some of the most important are respect for the rules and solidarity between the countries and citizens of the Union. Greece did not choose the path of other countries that experienced a crisis and came out of it with drastic and painful reforms such as, first of all, Bulgaria, but also Spain, Portugal, Ireland and the Baltic Republics. When the European Union faces a number of serious challenges in the area of security and economic growth, it is extremely important and necessary to find a common political language again and to seek common solutions. We hope that Greece will return as quickly and responsibly as possible to the negotiating table. We value the Greek side as a partner, neighbour and Member State of the European Union, we have an interest in the positive outcome of the negotiations to ensure the stability of our neighbours and the overall stability of the Union. Bulgaria must insist in the negotiations with Greece to protect the interests of the Member States of the European Union, which are not members of the Eurozone and which do not have the direct protection of the European Central Bank, and are directly exposed to the economic consequences of the Greek crisis. We cannot argue that there will be no negative consequences for Bulgaria from the destabilization of Greece. We therefore call for the establishment of an early warning system for the difficulties of the small and medium-sized business, which has trade relations with Greece, but above all we insist on preserving the stability of the institutions and improving the country's economic prospects, which goes through stabilisation and speeding up the course of political reforms in Bulgaria. The lesson about our country from what is happening in the southern neighbour is clear. Greece has come this far because of long delayed reforms in the pension system, ineffective public and tax administration, opaque and irresponsible spending of funds and the rise of political populism. That is why today our country must maintain and strengthen its course towards reforms, including, above all, the fight against corruption and judicial reform. It is extremely important not to allow the expansion of populism and euroscepticism. For Bulgaria, the implementation of a full reform of the justice system is a process for stability and real European membership. For us, the success of judicial reform is an unconditional criterion for a full and equal participation in the European and Euro-Atlantic family, equivalent to Greece's success in achieving or not achieving financial stability. We are deeply concerned about the behaviour of opposition parties and one of the parties who participated in the majority yesterday in the Forty-third National Assembly during yesterday's vote in the Constitutional Commission. And if with regard to the opposition we cannot have claims and should leave to its own assessment whether to vote motivated by both guerrilla, Bayganian passions, or European belonging and responsibility [[BSP LB]] With regard to the majority, the refusal of judicial reform is a waiver of responsibility for the government's governance and stability. We strongly expect from the representative of our partners from the ABB in the executive power, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, a clear position on constitutional changes, on which our confidence in him will depend as a member of the cabinet. We will continue our efforts to reach a sensible solution between enough parties to form a two-thirds majority in the forty-third parliament. If the parties of the majority and opposition do not show the necessary political responsibility, we will insist on far more radical changes to the Law on the Judiciary to eradicate the forces of the status quo, which today exert a key influence against the adoption of constitutional changes. The reformist bloc calls for agreement and responsibility and insists that the remaining political forces in the government commit themselves to completing political reforms. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Here you are, Mr. Hamid, for procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] He said it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I had stated a procedure on the agenda before the declarations began, but Mrs. Tsacheva did not see my raised hand. Colleagues, I suggest you. 19 on the agenda to become t. 3 a t. 3 to become t. A very important Agreement with the Kingdom of Norway. To our shame, we do not yet have an arrangement to avoid double taxation. [[Noise and lines.]] This will only take three or four minutes, so I suggest a shift on the agenda: t. 19 to become c. 3 a t. 3 to become t. 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u27	A counteroffer? I won't. We vote on it. 19 to become c. Three and the other way around. 125 MPs voted: 98 against 16, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u28	Mr. President, I would like to draw attention to the expressional means that Mr. Kanev uses from this tribune, and the way in which he addressed the Bulgarian Parliament with examples of Bulgarian literary characters who have acquired negative meaning in the minds of society and of the nation, especially when the Reformation Block has divided Mr. Ganyo Somov's practices into two Byaganeus in power is neither left nor right, Mr. Kanev. Restrain such qualifications and study the character carefully. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. We move on to the agenda of the National Assembly's work: PROJECT FOR THE PHILILILILIST DECISION - GREAT TURNING IN THE STRUCTURING OF THE MEDICAL UNIVERSITY - PROF. Dr. PARASAVEV STOYANOV "VARNA. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 25 June 2015 The Committee on Education and Science has a report on key issues, and the Committee on Health. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before that, I made a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the first and second points of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Nikolai Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u31	Access procedure. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u32	♪ I can't believe on Project for a Decision for the Opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov At its extraordinary meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Project for a Decision for the Opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov The meeting was attended by Vanya Kastreva Deputy Minister of Education and Science, who presented the project, Prof. Vania Kastreva. Radoslav Gerchev and Prof. Radoslav Gerchev Tsvetanka Koutova from the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation, Prof. Prof. Todorka Kostadinova Deputy Rector of the Medical University Prof. Todorka Kostadinova Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov The draft decision shall be submitted on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The proposal for the opening of the Philial of Veliko Tarnovo in the structure of the Medical University Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov is on the basis of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency project, according to Protocol No 20 of 6 November 2014 of a meeting of the Accreditation Board. Proof of the public importance of the project is the written support expressed by the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality and by the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals (BAZZG). With the opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov. "Varna" will create opportunities to prepare highly qualified personnel to meet the need for nurses and midwives in the region and the country. The discussion included MPs Mariana Boyadjieva, Snezhana Dukova, Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Stanislav Stanilov. They stressed the social importance of the project and expressed hope that future specialists will seek their professional realization in Bulgaria. The project envisions training in the newly opened branch in the specialities of the regulated professions of the medical nurse and midwife to acquire the educational-qualification degree of the Bachelor in the professional field 7.5. Health care. The NAOA's cited decision sets the training capacity of 80 students for each of the specified specialties of regulated professions. For the provision of training will be fulfilled the requirement of art. 26c, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education, and is intended to be reassigned 10 lecturers to a basic employment contract and to announce 4 contests for assistants after the opening of the subsidiary. A corresponding material and technical base provided by Veliko Tarnovo Municipality is provided for training in the planned subsidiary. As educational and practical training bases will be used accredited for the training of medical institutions students on the territory of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality. After a vote on the Project for a decision with a result of 15 votes for a decision, without abstentions and abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a decision for the opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov.. "Varna," No 502-03-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2015...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, for the report of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision for the Opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov At its regular meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Decision for the Opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov and Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Deputy Rector of Medical University Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov Todorka Kostadinova, D.S., Dr. Glinka Komitov, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mrs. Maria Furtunova, Director of the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Maria Furtunova, Director of the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Science. She informed the MPs that the proposed opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov is at the request of the management of the higher school based on a positively appreciated project by the Accreditation Board of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. The project envisions the training of students in the new territorially exported structure of the higher school to acquire an educational and qualification degree in two majors from the regulated schools of the medical nurse and the midwife from the professional field of health care. According to the legal requirements of the Health Act, the training of nurses and midwives shall be carried out in educational and qualification degrees under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 (b) of the Law on Higher Education in Faculties or branches of Higher Schools, which received accreditation under the Law on Higher Education. At present, the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov (Varna) has a program accreditation for the above-mentioned specialities of regulated professions, valid until 14 June 2017. Mrs. Fertonova noted that according to the Project for the Opening of Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov, in it will teach eleven people, ten of them on a basic contract of employment. In view of the stated, the academic staff of Filiala shall meet the requirement of art. 26c, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education. A material and technical base has been provided for the needs of the new structure. There are two specialized study offices with modern equipment for nurses and midwives, which aim to provide the necessary conditions for a quality learning process for students from both majors. The training facilities of accredited medical institutions in Veliko Tarnovo Municipality will be used for the conduct of practical training of students. The introduction of proposals Project of a solution is dictated by the large shortage of staff from regulated professions "Medician nurse" and "A midwife" and is a positive step in the process of carrying out the national policy for meeting the needs of the population of healthcare. Support for the proposed Draft Decision was expressed by the Minister of Health, representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, Bulgarian Dental Union and Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. Members of the Health Commission united in their opinions and expressed support for the proposed draft decision. In the context of the discussion, the sustainable trend of shortage of nurses and midwives in the national healthcare system was also noted, as many of them focus on looking for work abroad. In this regard, Mrs. Furtonova noted that the competent state institutions are preparing a package of measures aimed at detaining healthcare professionals in the national healthcare system. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results: Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov.. "Varna," No 502-03-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 June 2015...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u35	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Debates are open. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! No doubt the care for education is the duty of everyone present in this hall and the opening of a subsidiary of Varna University in Veliko Tarnovo is a step in the right direction to cover the shortage of staff in this regulated specialty, such as nurses and midwives. Here I want to open another aspect of the subject. The same procedure goes for the city of Shumen. I think the procedure for opening a branch of the Medical University Varna, in the city of Shumen, is much more advanced in documentary terms or was, but for some reason, unclear to me, this procedure has been stopped by the Minister of Education. We have already made several inquiries to the Minister of Health why this is not happening. We have a few colleagues who have written a question to the Minister, but he's slowing him down, and I don't know why. Here I see a representative of the Ministry of Education, if he wants to explain why the branch of this university in Shumen is not found and for what reasons. Why does the Ministry want to deliberately sabotage the creation of such a branch, thus filling the shortage of the necessary nurses in Bulgarian hospitals?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u37	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u38	It's on the subject, of course. Our parliamentary group will support the discovery of such a subsidiary, but my question is why this is being stopped elsewhere and a direction must be given. I call on the MPs from all parliamentary groups here to show what is necessary so that this topic can be put on the agenda of the National Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line? I won't. Professor Boyadjieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a MP from Veliko Tarnovo and a member of the Committee on Education and Science in the National Assembly, I strongly support the proposal for revealing a subsidiary of Varna Medical University in Veliko Tarnovo. I would like to assure you that this is an expected decision of the National Assembly by the public of Veliko Tarnovo, given the long-standing traditions it has in our city, through medical school and Medical University, so that these two regulated professions can be prepared for which, unfortunately, not only in our region, but also in neighbouring ones, there is a serious shortage of staff. I would like to tell you that more than a year and a half of the preparation is being carried out to uncover this subsidiary, with Veliko Tarnovo Municipality providing the necessary material conditions with a good base at the Humanitarian High School in the city and also with good opportunities for practical training of future students in medical facilities in Veliko Tarnovo. I believe that the National Assembly will support this decision, which will be discussed today. It will be supported by the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. I hope that what my colleague Ivan Ivanov said will be a future decision of the National Assembly, as was done in Shumen's preparation for the opening of a subsidiary of Varna Medical University. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. A line? I won't. Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u42	The point is, there are no candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u43	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u44	Four years to study for 400 leva salary!?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman! Milen Mihov "4."Multimate Veliko Tarnovski electoral region, in the spirit of old traditions. I would naturally like to declare my support to my personal and to my colleagues from the Patriotic Front for the opening of a subsidiary of Varna Medical University in Veliko Tarnovo. The procedure started a long time ago, colleagues on the left. It started during your management, started and continued with the support, I must say, to all the public, municipal and academic factors in the old capital city. I am flattered to say that today I will vote a second time in favour of this idea and I hope that with the successful realization and, God forbid, the successful example of midwife and nurses in the subsidiary Veliko Tarnovo will continue to be established as one of the leading university and academic centers in the Republic of Bulgaria, in southeastern Europe and throughout the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u46	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u47	The doctors in the Parliament Hall know that there is a hunger for nurses and in medicine this is the most deficient specialty. This proposal is very correct, it must be voted on and we will vote on it. However, I would ask the hall, the importers and the whole Bulgarian society: "How will you stop the well-trained nurses from leaving the country and going to work elsewhere, for another society and other economies?" My doctor, one of the doctors who treated me, said to me: "Professor, I am treating you now. You have someone to treat you, but tomorrow, when I am your age, there will be no one to treat me. This is what Bulgarian society should think about. As for the training of nurses, someone suggested that there would be no candidates. There will be candidates because it's a deficit specialty. The point is that they must be given some advantages, salaries and so on or to conclude contracts against state scholarships, at least one part of them should remain in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u48	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here's a line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am tempted to make a reply that I have also made during the discussion of the subject in the Committee on Health. Yes, we are all about revealing such structures and training of nurses and midwives scattered in the areas of the country where these young people will not be able to learn very far from their families. Yes, these are deficit specialties Bulgaria needs. How, though, can we keep trained nurses, midwives, and doctors in the country? Certainly not only by increasing the number of training students, but by improving their remuneration and working conditions. I pay attention to all my colleagues in this House! Most curative structures are commercial companies, they form the salary of employees on the basis of their activities. Currently, there is a serious problem regarding the payment of the activity in the hospitals' curative structures with an un-eective distribution of limits in hospital budgets and the supervision of the Casa is about to discuss a revision of the monthly limits in the budgets of 76 hospitals. Let us all make efforts to optimally finance the healing structures with very strict controls to spend public funds, because without adequate remuneration we will not be able to keep these trained personnel. That's my appeal, my reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. It's a hole. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u51	Such a fine speech can be called to some extent, Doctor, populist. Tell you why. We have been repeating the same thing in our program for ten years: there can be no health care, there must be healthcare! The hospital cannot be registered as a trading company and generate profits on the basis of health! There's a bunch of similar sentences that I can replicate for you. This applies to both private schools and other structures. It's messed up! Public-private partnership is public-private outrage and nothing more!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u52	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Any other speeches? I won't. We're going into voting mode. We are voting on the Decision for the opening of the branch of Veliko Tarnovo, in the structure of the Medical University. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED He opened a branch office in Veliko Tarnovo, in the structure of the Medical University Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov Please vote. Vote 118 Members of Parliament: 117, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to item two of the agenda: PROJECT FOR THE SUPERVISION OF THE FACTURE OF THE FACTURE OF THE FACTORS AND THE SPORTS IN THE FACTURE OF THE SUPERVISION OF THE UNIVERSITY, THE HEALTH CARS AND THE CARS OF SPORTS. Importer of the Council of Ministers, dated 8 June 2015 Report from the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its extraordinary meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Education and Science Commission examined the Project for a Resolution on the Conversion of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the Structure of the Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski at the Faculty of Public Health, Health and Sport, No 502-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Vanya Kastreva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, who presented the project, Prof. Vania Kastreva. Radoslav Gerchev and Prof. Radoslav Gerchev Tsvetanka Koutova from the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation, Prof. Mr. Ivan Mirchev, Rector of Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski, and Maria Balevska from the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals. The draft decision shall be submitted on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The proposal to convert the Faculty of Public Health and Sports to the structure of the Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski at the Faculty of Public Health, Health and Sport is based on a positive assessment and accreditation project under Protocol No 19 of 30 October 2014 of the Board of Accreditation. Proof of the public importance of the project is expressed support from the district governor of Blagoevgrad district, the mayors of the municipalities of Razlog, Sandanski, Gotse Delchev and Kyustendil. The transformation of the Faculty is seen as a restoration of the long-standing educational tradition and the relevant material base for the preparation of nurses and midwives in Blagoevgrad, carried out by the closed because of changes in health legislation Medical College. A written opinion was presented by the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, which supports the Project for a solution on the grounds of the need to increase the number of students admitted in order to overcome the lack of care in healing, continued treatment and rehabilitation. Two multi-profile hospital for active treatment in Blagoevgrad declare that they will provide the necessary conditions for the practical training of students. The discussion included MPs Mariana Boyadjieva, Snezhana Dukova, Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Stanislav Stanilov. They stressed the social importance of the project and expressed hope that future specialists will seek their professional realization in Bulgaria. The project envisions training in the majors of the regulated professions in the Faculty of South-West University of Neophyte Rilski to be carried out in the course of the specialties of the regulated professions "Medician sister" and "Akusherka" for the acquisition of educational and qualification degrees "Bachelor" and in the specialties of the professional departments of the... "Pedagogical of the training in... "Society", "Society" and "Sports." The capacity defined by the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation of the Specialties of the regulated professions at the South-West University of Neofit Rilski is 80 students for the specialty of the University of Medicine and 60 students for the specialty of the University of Akusherka. A capacity of 480 students is determined for the specialty of the non-regulated occupations. A capacity of 480 students is determined for the ACS Master after the Bachelor's degree of Bachelor's degree 240 students. A scientific teaching staff of 43 lecturers (22 habilitated and 21 non-habilitated) of which 42 are on a basic employment contract is provided to secure the training. After a vote on the draft decision with a result of 15 votes for the Council of Education and Science, the Committee of Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski at the Faculty of Public Health, Health and Sport, No 502-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. For the report of the Committee on Health, please, Dr. Daritkova. I'm going to ask you in a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention the Project for a Solution for the Conversion of Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the Structure of South-West University of Neofit Rilski... Blagoevgrad, at the Faculty of Public Health, Health Care and Sports, No 502-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015: At its extraordinary meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Health Commission examined and discussed a draft decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski. The Faculty of Public Health, Health and Sports, No 502-03-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Maria Furtunova, Director of the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Science. She informed the MPs that the proposed transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski... Blagoevgrad, at the Faculty of Public Health, Health Care and Sports is based on a request from the management of the higher school and a positively assessed project for the transformation by the Accreditation Board of the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation. The project envisions training to be carried out in the converted main unit in addition to the previous specialities of the Faculty and training for the acquisition of educational and qualification degrees of the Bachelor in two new specialties from the regulated professions of the Medical Sister and the Midwives from the professional field of health care, as well as in the specialties of the professional department of Sport. Currently the South-West University of Neofit Rilski.. Blagoevgrad has active program accreditation for professional directions and positively evaluated projects for the opening of the specified specialties from the regulated professions of the professional field of health and for the opening of the professional field of sport. Mrs. Furtunova noted that the university has a material and technical base and the necessary academic staff. The project of a decision aims to create opportunities for the preparation of highly qualified medical professionals and to meet the needs of the population of healthcare. Support for the proposed Draft Decision expressed the Minister of Health as well as representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, the Bulgarian Dental Union and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. Members of the Health Commission united in their opinions and expressed support for the proposed draft decision. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 17 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u56	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go, Professor. Lilkov. I'm gonna have to ask for a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u57	♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski At its regular meeting held on 24 June 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed a draft decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski. The Deputy Minister of Education and Science attended the meeting. Nikolai Denkov, Assoc. Maria Furtunova Director of Education at the Ministry of Education and Science, Prof. d.o.b. Mr. Ivan Mirchev, Rector of Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski and representatives of the National Representation of Student Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the project was presented by the Deputy Minister. Nikolai Denkov. The project for the decision to convert the Faculty of Public Health and Sport at the Faculty of Public Health, Health and Sports is offered on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, pursuant to Protocol No 19 of the meeting of the Accreditation Board, held on 30 October 2014. The importer stressed that the university has a corresponding material and technical base and academic staff. The Commission received an opinion from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, supporting the Decision on the conversion of the faculty, as well as letters from municipalities in Blagoevgrad, District management and hospitals in the city, which also express their support for the newly opened specialties at the university. After the discussion, the MPs united around the opinion that in view of the critical shortage of this group of medical professionals, the possibility of training in the two new specialties of regulated professions "Medicinski Sister" and "Akusherka" will be created conditions for the preparation of highly qualified medical personnel, which will affect the quality of medical services in Bulgaria. Training in the professional field of Sports will contribute to creating conditions and increasing competition in the field of coaching and for the development of mass and elite sports, both at regional and national level. On the basis of the discussion held and the vote taken, the following results were obtained for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sport in the structure of the South-West University of Neofit Rilski
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Debates are open. Anyone? I won't. Debates closed. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs for a vote. Honourable Members, we are voting ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the transformation of the Faculty of Public Health and Sports in the structure of the Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski... Blagoevgrad, in the Faculty of Public Health, Health and Sports...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED Transforms the Faculty of Public Health and Sports in the structure of Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. According to today's resolution. 19, ct. 3. Moving on to item three on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance "Please come in, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u59	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income, No 502-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2015. At a meeting held on 18 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income. The bill, with an importer of the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir. The Agreement between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway is currently in force (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union). DV, No. 48 from 1989.). It lacks adequate economic conditions for legal regulation of tax relations between the two countries. This leads to a limited application of the Agreement between them, to the failure of the State concerned to effectively combat the prevention of tax evasion, tax evasion and tax fraud. The above reasons require the signing of a new document and a new Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway was signed in Sofia on 22 July 2014 to avoid double taxation of income. The new Arrangement contains corresponding to the latest trends in the field of information exchange taxation, the prevention of tax evasion and the regulation of relations between related undertakings. The undisputed benefits of its conclusion are: an up-to-date and effective Agreement with the Kingdom of Norway, which balanced and to the maximum extent to protect the interests of the two countries equally; the development and enrichment of the Bulgarian contractual practice on agreements to avoid double taxation of incomes by re-negotiating the most applicable Bulgarian BCCI with favourable for the Bulgarian state permissions; it would be a tool for helping to strengthen and stimulate economic and any other cooperation between the two countries in mutual interest. International treaties relating to the operation of the law or requiring legislative measures for their implementation, such as the Agreement, shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion of the Bill, a vote was followed, which ended with the following results: 11 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You are welcome to present the report to the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income, No 502-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2015. At a meeting held on 17 June 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income, signed on 22 July 2014 in Sofia. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev. The Agreement between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway is currently in force between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes, signed in Sofia on 1 March 1988 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 48 from 1989. This Agreement will be repealed and will cease to apply from the date on which the signed new Agreement becomes applicable. The current Agreement lacks adequate economic conditions for the legal regulation of tax relations between the two countries, resulting in a limited application of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income and the failure of the State concerned to effectively combat the prevention of tax evasion, tax evasion, tax fraud and money laundering. The new Agreement signed with the Kingdom of Norway will be an effective instrument for regulating all matters between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway in the field of international double taxation in a most favourable and mutually beneficial manner. The local person clause has been corrected. With the new wording the restriction on Bulgarian citizenship for individuals is removed. Tax rates of 5% for tax on sources of interest income, copyright and licence fees have been agreed. The agreement is of mutual interest and will contribute to stimulating economic cooperation between the two countries. As regards the entry into force of the Agreement, each Contracting State shall notify the other State in writing, by diplomatic means, of the implementation of its legislation concerning the entry into force of this Agreement. The Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of those two notifications. This Agreement shall remain in force for an indefinite period, but each Contracting Party may terminate it by diplomatic means by giving written notice to the other Contracting State of termination no later than 30 June of each calendar year beginning five years after the year of entry into force of the Agreement. The Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income, No 502-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure on the basis of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, because unanimously at first reading it was supported by the Agreement, to consider it on the second.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u64	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We vote on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u65	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income, signed on 22 July 2014 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u66	Are there any speeches? I won't. Voting mode. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEEDING RULES FOR THE PROCEEDING OF CANDIDATE FOR THE SUPERVISOR Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, to read the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u67	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a sub-government, a Head of Management, a candidate for a sub-government, a member of the Bulgarian National Bank, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the applicant in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the issue of the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The proposed decision aims to adopt common procedural rules for the election of a sub-manager, head of management, for which it was proposed by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in the event of a legal basis. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 14 votes in favour, without abstention and 1 proposal to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a sub-government "Bankov supervising', of a candidate for a sub-manager "Bankovo', and of a candidate for a sub-manager "Bankov supervising', of the Bulgarian National Bank, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall adopt the following Rules of Procedure, which shall be applied by the National Assembly in the event of a legal basis for the election of a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank. 19 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank: Rules of procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a sub-government "Bankov supervising', of a candidate for a sub-government "Bankovo', and of a candidate for a sub-government "Board Manager', of the Bulgarian National Bank, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering a candidate for a sub-management officer, the Bulgarian National Bank and presentation of its documents. 1. The proposal for a candidate for a sub-government is submitted in writing by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank to the Budget and Finance Committee through the President of the National Assembly in case of legal basis. 2. The proposal for a candidate for a vice-governor is accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the candidate. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the model (s) of Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) documents certifying the professionalism of the applicant in the field of economy, finance and banking (diploma for completed higher education, certificates, recommendations for positions held and acquired specializations in the field of economy, finance and banking and the like); (d) a criminal record; (e) a statement in the form of a template of Annex 2 to the decision that there are no circumstances under art. 11, para. 4 t. 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Bulgarian National Bank Act. II. Public disclosure of documents. The proposal together with the written reasons and documents attached to it shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions on the applicant to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the applicant, including questions to be addressed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: Sofia City, Piazza "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Commission, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Hearing of the applicant 1. Before hearing the proposed candidate, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the requirements for the post for which he is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidate shall be represented by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of the candidate and of his concept of his activities as a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank, for which he was proposed by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in 20 minutes. 5. Presentation in summary of the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, if any, shall be represented within two minutes each. 6. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 7. Questions from the Members of the National Assembly within two minutes. 8. The applicant's response to the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly will be up to 10 minutes. 9. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 10. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 11. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the MNS report from the hearing of the candidate and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision for the selection of the candidate for sub-government, head of the management of the Bulgarian National Bank, for which it was proposed by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. IV. Election of a candidate for a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank, from the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate is present at the meeting with a decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. The candidate shall be represented by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 2. Revocation of Decision adopting procedural rules for hearing and election of the deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bank's Supervisory (prom. DV, No. 11 of 10 February 2015) Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Decision are the declarations under the BNB Act and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova, for presenting the draft decision on behalf of the importer, as well as the Commission report. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I remind you that he is like a first-reading rule. Here's your speech, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, the Report of the Committee for the Establishment of the facts and circumstances of the draining of the CCB for the period 2009 - 2014 was submitted to the National Assembly. I am using the case to thank the President of the Commission and the Members for the professional and responsible work on the preparation of the Report, which showed the mechanisms for draining the fourth largest bank in the country, as well as the responsibility, actions and omissions of the state institutions in the case of KTB. With regard to the actions of the management of BNB, the Commission unanimously reached the following conclusions. I will allow myself to read them verbatim, as the report is public, but you have hardly had a chance to get acquainted in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u70	Mr. Tanev, we are still commenting on the draft decision and your speech should refer to the philosophy of this proposal. I hope you keep that focus.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u71	Of course, I'll refer. All I'm asking is that you listen to me. The Commission's conclusions are as follows: We consider that the BNB has not effectively performed its supervisory and control functions against CCB. Hundreds of millions of BGN credits are granted by CCB to companies with fictitious or zero business, with missing real guarantees for the loans received. Multiple borrowers are registered at the same address. Companies have transferred on the same day received loans for millions of euros to other companies and individuals. The Commission did not receive a satisfactory explanation from the representatives of BNB why they did not react to a number of other very unusual facts for normal banking practice such as the phenomenal growth of CCB's assets, the offering of assets on deposits far above market interest, the extremely high percentage of pre-negotiated loans. It is apparent from the above that the management of BNB is responsible for the bankruptcy of CCB, which costs the Bulgarian taxpayers more than 3.5 billion. lv. The BNB Act and the Rules that we will adopt today prohibit persons who are members of the board of directors and supervisory boards of a bankrupt banking institution from being candidates for the government of BNB, but there are no restrictions on persons who have been on the Board of Directors of BNB, whose mandate is to allow bankruptcy of a bank, to be candidates again for the Board of Directors of BNB. We can't afford another failure! It should be clear to everyone that Bulgarian citizens expect a clear responsibility in the management of each institution, that there is no way when in your term you have allowed bankruptcy of a banking institution, to want and to expect to have a next term. The reformation bloc will not support a candidate for a BNB sub-government whose mandate is to allow bankruptcy of a bank institution. This will be the condition of support to the next Governor of BNB. I'm making an offer on item I, item I. 2 to create the letter "b' with the following content: (b) a declaration that the person was not a member of the Governing Council of BNB, whose term of office was declared bankruptcy of a banking institution. In this way, we would like to explicitly show that, despite the lack of legal restriction on the candidacy of such persons, we would like to give a clear signal to the public that people in whose mandate the bankruptcy of a banking institution will not be able to be offered again and again take the same position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u72	We specify the point "I," after "I." 1 to create t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u73	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 to create a sub-paragraph "b'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I am making this statement or a reply to Mr. Tanev's speech because he made his proposal in the Commission and we discussed it thoroughly there, but ultimately we did not accept it for the following reasons. The rules of procedure may not introduce additional requirements to applicants outside the requirements laid down in the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The requirements that are recorded in the BNB Act in order not to be able to take up a certain position are declared in the In this sense, Mr. Tanev's proposal cannot legally be an element of this procedure and be a limitation in this procedure. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 of the letter "I" is written that documents are applied, stating the professionalism of the applicant in the field of the economy, finance and banking work.. is also based on the explicit text of the BNB Law. In the clamp after this sentence, we have put an inexhaustible example listing of various documents that would have evidence of the applicant's professionalism in the field of economics, finance and banking. In this sense, these documents can be presented, they may not be presented, so the proposal made by Mr. Tanev cannot oblige the persons to submit such a declaration, all the more so that a declaration is required only by law. I think you all know that a declaration with some procedural rules could not be requested. As for whether the person was a member of a board of directors of a bankrupt bank or not, this is very easy to see from his biography, which is mandatory application according to the letter. 2. In this biography, it describes in detail its activity where and what it worked, what period. Since, thank God, we do not have permanent bankruptcys of banks, we can very easily see whether or not the person was involved in such a board of directors and therefore determine whether this circumstance could motivate us not to vote for this person's choice. However, to record it as an explicit condition in the rules of procedure, I believe that it is not legally tolerated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, in my speech, I said that the requirement for such a declaration does not have its must. There is no way there is, since the Law clearly lists the documents to be presented by each of the candidates. I made it clear that the purpose of such a declaration is to make public the responsibility and to make public what kind of person, who is applying for governor, as a deputy governor of BNB. Given that, as you said, in parentheses of t. 2 (c) there are documents that have an informational and not mandatory character, I believe that this document is exactly the same. However, when a person lodges a declaration and inside it is written that there is a bankrupt banking institution in his mandate, I believe that all of us and he himself has no moral grounds to claim such a mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Do you want a hole? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we will first vote on the proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Tanev: in item I, item I. 2 to be added letter............................................................................................... It was read. You've heard the debate on this proposal. [[Heckling]] Okay, I'm reading the point: (e) a statement on whether the applicant was a member of the Governing Council of BNB for a period when a bank under which the BNB is supervising is declared bankrupt. This is the point proposed by the MP Dimitar Tanev. We vote. They voted 101 MPs: 29, Against 7, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I'd like you to come in, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u79	I am proposing a re-voting with the following arguments. Colleagues, we understand that what happened to KTB is no accident. All these state institutions and the people who managed them are responsible. We propose that these individuals bear their responsibility. There's no way you could have let a bank go bankrupt in your term and ask for one again. There's just no way! The public will never forgive us for this! I don't see which one of us would vote for a man who's committed bankruptcy in his reign. Please re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u80	It's a re-vote. They voted 108 MPs: 35 against 15, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision on the Commission report. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 81, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, HEARING OF CANDIDATES FOR OMBUDSMAN AND THE CLOSURE OF OMBUDSMAN. With the draft decision on the Commission's report on religion and human rights, Mr. Velchev will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u81	Madam President, honourable Members, I will introduce you to ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman At the meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed Rules of Procedure for conducting a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Iva Miteva, Head of the Department of Staff of the National Assembly and Mr. Stefan Stoykov of the Forum Association. The Members of the National Assembly discussed the Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the election of the Ombudsman. Proposals were made on the draft decision that the MPs approved. Following the debates on the rules of procedure, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 15 votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman The National Assembly on the basis of art. 91a, para. 1 in relation to art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. I. Offering candidates for the Ombudsman and submitting their documents. 1. Proposals for candidates for ombudsman shall be made by MPs and parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall be accompanied by written reasons which also contain an argument on the high moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the model (s) of Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; c) a xerocopy from a diploma for completed higher education; (d) a statement in accordance with template 65, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents referred to in Section I, t. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The name and the reasons of the Member of the National Assembly or the parliamentary group that proposed the application shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for carrying out a public utility activity no later than three days before the applicant's hearing may submit opinions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on the applicant, including questions to be put to him. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights to the candidate to be referred to him. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I " No 1, Commission on Religions and Human Rights, or on the Commission's electronic website. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Hearing of candidates admitted to the Ombudsman. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The proposer shall present the candidate at an exhibition within 5 minutes. The presentation also includes information on motivation, public reputation, moral qualities and public support for the candidate. 4. The candidate is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of ombudsman work in an exhibition within 15 minutes for each candidate. 5. The President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall present in summary the persons who have received, under the terms and conditions of Section II, i.e. 2, opinions and questions to which no answer has been received. 6. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidate. The time for questioning is up to 3 minutes. 8. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after the questions asked to him have been exhausted. The response time is up to five minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented and submit it to the National Assembly. If several candidates for the Ombudsman have been heard, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall attach to the report a list of candidates who have participated in the hearing, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for ombudsman. IV. Election of the Ombudsman by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. After the deliberations have been concluded, the Chair of the meeting shall announce the start of the secret voting procedure in the election of the Ombudsman. V. Rules of Procedure for secret voting in the election of the Ombudsman on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 1. In order to produce the secret vote, the Commission shall be elected to produce the secret vote in a composition of 9 MPs, one of each parliamentary group and one MP not members of a parliamentary group. 2. The vote shall be carried out with one white ballot with the names of the proposed candidates, arranged alphabetically in their own names and a box in front of each name to reflect the will of the voting MP. 3. The ballots shall be placed in advance in the election booths. 4. The voting envelopes are white, opaque, of the same size and without inscriptions. The envelopes shall be made available to the Members of the Commission for the production of the secret vote. 5. Each MP voted for one of the candidates by placing a sign in the box in front of the corresponding name. When there is only one candidate, each Member of the National Assembly shall vote for the proposed candidate by putting a sign in the box or against the proposed candidate by not putting a sign in the box. Or, put in plain language, that this is a... does not fill out the newsletter itself. It's six. After the vote, the people's representative puts the ballot in the electoral envelope, leaves the electoral room and puts the envelope in the electoral box. The vote taken shall be marked on the list of Members of the National Assembly and the Member of the National Assembly shall be signed. 7. An envelope with two or more identical ballots counts as one actual ballot. 8. The ballot shall be invalid when it is: (a) self-made; (b) torn, crossed or there are other signs on it; c) found in the election box without envelope; (d) placed a sign in more than one square or the sign placed shall affect more than one voting box and shall not be clearly determined by the voter's will. Where the envelope contains two or more ballots of different content and when the envelope is empty, the ballots shall be counted as one null ballot. 9. The vote shall take place within one hour from the announcement of the procedure. 10. Upon completion of the vote, the Commission for the production of the secret vote shall draw up a record of the voting data to be signed by the members of the committee. The Chair of the Committee shall announce to the National Assembly the results of the vote. 11. The candidate who received a majority of more than half of the MPs voted shall be considered elected. 12. If, in the first vote, none of the candidates has received the necessary majority, a second vote shall be cast in which the two candidates who received the most votes participate. The second vote shall be produced under the same terms and conditions. The candidate who received a majority of more than half of the MPs voted shall be considered elected. In the event of an equal result between the candidates, a new selection procedure shall be carried out. 13. The Chair of the Committee announces to the National Assembly the results of the vote. Honourable Members, this is the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u82	Together with Annexes 1 and 2 to the Decision, which form an integral part of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u83	Yeah. Annexes 1 and 2 to the Decision are an integral part of the draft decision. Thank you. "Acceptance No 1' to the Decision The delegation of power The undersigned....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ....................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ DECLARES THAT: I agree to be proposed as Ombudsman. .................................................................................................................................................................... Annex No 2 to the Decision The delegation of power The undersigned....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of...................................... From the Ministry of DECLARES that I meet the conditions of art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. I am 21 years old; 2. I have no citizenship other than Bulgarian; 3. I am not placed under an obstacle; 4. I do not tolerate imprisonment. I am aware that for false declaration I have criminal liability under Article. 313 of the Penal Code. I agree with my personal data to be processed in connection with the production of an ombudsman choice. ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take account of the rules of procedure set out? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the condition and procedure for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next item in our weekly program is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION. Report on the second vote on the joint draft by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Zelenogorski, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am going to introduce you to:.Report for the second vote of a joint Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 553-04-30, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the basis of the adoption of the first vote on 17 June 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 454-01-28, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; Draft Law supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-90, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 554-01-106, submitted by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, No 502-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Law on Civil Registration is amended and supplemented by the Law on Civil Registration. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u86	There are no statements on the name. I put the Commission's proposal to vote in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the bill. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal by Dobromir Prodanov and a group of MPs: A new § 1 is being created. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19a is created a new para. 5 with the In the order of paragraph 5 of this Article, the following paragraphs shall apply: 2 the names of deceased Bulgarian citizens who have been forced to change their names can be restored. The application in this case shall be submitted by an heir to the deceased. In the event of disagreement between the heirs of the deceased, the dispute shall be settled by the district court. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u88	Statements on the proposal for a new paragraph? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! This proposal by our fellow Members is, in our view, an alternative proposal for our proposal under § 19, which we will be looking at later. It reads: The General Directorate of Criminal Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall restore the names of the Bulgarian citizens who died until 30 June 2001 whose names have been changed and have not been restored under the terms and conditions of § 2 of the repealed Law on the names of the Bulgarian citizens or by the order of the repealed § 1a of the Law on Civil Registration. My fellow Members, I am puzzled that at first reading all colleagues on the right side supported our proposals and another proposal comes out at second reading. In order to cancel our § 19, an alternative proposal shall be made for a change in art. 19a. This is an alternative proposal of § 1a of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the same Law, as the previous text reads: "The children of the deceased by 30 June 2001 Bulgarian citizens whose names have been forced to change and are not recovered under the terms and conditions of § 2 of the repealed Law on the names of the Bulgarian citizens may, by common consent, restore their parents' names in accordance with art. 19a, para. 2. At the moment, only one of the heirs is proposed to be able to recover. An injustice has been done on our citizens during the so-called renaissance process, so we propose that these names be removed by service. It appears from the proposal for a second vote that all Members outside our parliamentary group, who supported at first reading these proposals, have not been sincere, so we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u90	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Hajrula, at first reading the laws are not discussed text by text, there is a problem being discussed. Since you have given in § 19 a completely new order for the so-called "service deletion and service reimbursement', we propose a mixed version between the current regulatory framework and your proposal, namely a light regime in which one of the heirs of the deceased, whose name has been changed, can submit an application to the person under civil status and change the name. In the event of a reaction, if there is a disagreement between the heirs, there will be a decision of the district court. Our proposal in art. 19a, para. 5 gives a new way in this same question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u92	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u93	Thank you, Madam President, I'm taking a cue with regard to the suggestions that he wanted to make in the first place and in the second place his colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u94	Mr. Hajrula.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u95	When considering the Bill and its philosophy, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front reasoned and categorically stated that it would not support the submitted text by the representatives of the DPS. It is hardly necessary to remind you that the name does not bear hereditary rights in order to want in some official way to restore some fictional injustice that did not actually exist. Trying to rekindle xenophobic and racist events on ethnic grounds, at least we won't allow it. Because that's the point of the bill you submitted. I think there are sufficiently reasonable MPs in this Chamber not to support it. So don't assume that everyone had supported him. No, the philosophy of the bills, which united in a joint bill, was supported. From there, I am already saying that we will support the Commission's opinion, as it is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u96	Third line, guys? I won't. A hole, Mr. Hajrula.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bajraktarov, there is no one here but you who instills nationalism or the terms you say. We simply want to restore an injustice which is recognised by this Bulgarian Parliament, the so-called revival process. Nothing else! When I said the right-hand peers wasn't to you, I don't think you're from that half. I addressed these parties, which are considered representatives of the right-wing sector of the democratic sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u98	Any other MPs? There are more speeches, so now we're gonna stop for a 30-minute break. At 12.05, we proceed with Mr. Ramadan Attalay's statement. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u99	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. The time for rest is definitely over. I'm expecting Mr. Ramadan Atalay, who, before the break, expressed his willingness to speak. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs. The word is Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! In relation to art. 19a and the proposal of Mr. Prodanov and a group of MPs, I would like to take note of § 19, proposed in the Bill of Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Honourable Members, the two Members are interrelated. I would like to emphasise briefly that § 19 of the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms requires that the Law on the names of Bulgarian citizens be repealed under Article 19 of the Law on the names of Bulgarian citizens. 19a of the Civil Registration Act. It states that changing the names of Bulgarian citizens in the revival process is done according to the law I think since 1994. The change will take place through the court. Our request is, first of all, to change the names of the deceased citizens. The names of the Bulgarian citizens who died until 30 June 2001 and of those who were forced to change and were not refunded under the terms and conditions of § 2 of the repealed Law on the names of the Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Prodanov's proposal, colleagues, now has a completely different philosophy. Our request is to abolish an injustice, not even an injustice, but to cancel an insult which is applied to every Bulgarian citizen when he appears in the municipality and requires a change of certain documents, the official in the municipality to ask the question: Would you please tell me their Bulgarian names? Colleagues, I think that insulting some of you who are right or right in the corner can also happen. In order not to have such a dual attitude, so that there would be no inconvenience on the part of the municipal employee, and inconvenience on the part of him who goes to claim a change or ask for a document from the municipality, and he is asked such a question, we proposed § 19. What you're proposing right now is nothing new, colleagues. It's old, forgotten. This way we will make heirs if there are, of course, to go, but again to think of that process, which was denied by all political forces and recognized as a mistake in the development of Bulgaria. Colleagues, nothing is intended: neither aims to create hatred between ethnicities in Bulgaria, but simply to make ourselves at the height of politicians in democratic Bulgaria and § 19 truly to be accepted as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms suggests. In the Commission, we proposed on the proposal of Mr. Prodanov and a group of MPs first to vote § 19 and then to return to § 1. Even then, it would be understood how and how GERB or other political forces will react. It turned out, however, that neither GERB nor the other political forces are at the heights required today by both the European Union and the democratic development of Bulgaria. Colleagues, I think it would be better if I suggested that my colleague Prodanov withdraw § 1 and from there we follow the Law as presented to us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because § 1 changes the philosophy of what you accepted at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Since, as is apparent, there is nothing more to say on this subject, I propose a procedure to end the debates in order not to develop theories that are not useful to the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u103	Are there any other statements? A procedure shall be terminated if there are other speeches. I understand there might be. Is there a reverse opinion of Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u104	Madam President, I suggest we listen to the opinion and opinion of all the political forces. This is a serious issue on which silence gives consent to whether this consent is in support of the revival process or with opinions to see which country all political forces are in. Mr. Bayraktarov, many times I refrain from this tribune, but I would say this. You may also be uncomfortable if you go to the municipality and the municipal employee asks you: "Mr. Bajraktarov, what is your Bulgarian name?" To make you uncomfortable, we offer this text of § 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u105	That name thing, I didn't get it, Mr. Atalay. The pass is mine. I shall put to the vote the motion to put an end to the debate on a new § 1. They voted 123 MPs: 90, against 29, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The debate has been terminated with our decision just now. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Dobromir Prodanov and a group to create a new § 1. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 30, against 41, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u106	My fellow Members, I have not been able to understand why fellow Members who are making the proposal are now against it? Somehow once you don't want to support what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has proposed, you are making your proposal and you are not supporting it right now. [[Noise and lines.]] Either you haven't understood, colleagues, what this is about, or someone is leading you in the wrong direction. So I want you to think a little bit and rethink this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u107	It's a re-vote. They voted 122 MPs: 47, against 39, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zelenogorski, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u108	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Under § 1, there is a proposal from Mr. Dobromir Prodanov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following 1. A new para is being created. 2: In issuing certificates and copies of civil status acts from citizens, the provision of personal data which are located in the Single Civil Registration and Administrative Service System of the Population (ESGRAN) and related registers cannot be required. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 1 in accordance with the report of the same Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 111 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u110	§ 2 has a proposal from Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The birth certificate of a stillborn child shall be drawn up on the basis of a written communication not later than 48 hours after birth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: for 119, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u112	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "The birth of a stillborn child is reported no later than 24 hours after birth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u113	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 3 in its version on the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u114	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Death" shall be added either by the birth certificate of a stillborn child. 2. A new para is being created. 2: Where necessary for a funeral, a copy of the death certificate or the birth certificate of a stillborn child may also be issued to third parties without the need for authorisation under art. 88a, para. 2. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u115	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 106 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u116	Under § 5, there is a proposal from Nayden Zelenogorski, adopted by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 the following 1. Alinea 4 is canceled. 2. In para. 8 after the words the Ministry of Internal Affairs is placed comma and added the Head Office of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. 3. In para. 9 the words.. subject to the provision of art. 4. They're creating an al. 10, 11, 12, and 13: The number of persons who can register at a permanent and/or current address of one residence shall not exceed two times the number of persons who may normally reside in the home concerned. In determining the total number of persons, account shall also be taken of registered owners, users, tenants or residents on another legal basis. In cases where the dwelling is occupied only by relatives on a straight line, on a competitive line to the fourth degree, including or by matchmaking to the second degree, a three-fold increase in the number of persons who can normally live in the home shall be allowed. (11) The authorities of para. 1 keep copies of documents on the basis of which address registration, change of address and deletion of address registration is made for a period of 5 years. (12) The acts of the bodies referred to in para. 1 refusing to carry out an address registration or a change to an address shall be subject to challenge under the Administrative Procedure Code. (13) The acts of the authorities under para. 1 for deletion of an address registration shall be subject to a challenge before the administrative court concerned. The appeal doesn't stop the execution. The decision of the Administrative Court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u117	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u118	Thank you, Madam President. The text of the importers and that proposed by the Commission for second reading are correct in general, but if we accept it in this way, I think the Law will not be able to fulfil its purpose. This relates to the number of persons with their usual residence at the address concerned. If at one address, hypothetically, 10 people can live under the Law, but have already registered above these 10 people, for example 20 people, which of these 10 people will be deregistered? Who determines that? Is the first at the time also the first by law or the owners or co-owners determining who is to be deregistered from their property? These questions in this form are not answered by the Law. This is what I wanted to do as a remark on the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u119	Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u120	Dear Mr. Popov, I think your concern is reasonable, but it seems to me that in such cases the legal opportunity and the mechanism created, that the registered ones are first in law. If 80 people from 90 additional registered are to be deregistered, the first 10 who have registered will remain at this address. I think that's the most logical thing to do. It seems to me that the subject you are raising is important, but it would hardly block the implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u121	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Popov, your concern would be justified if there were no requirements and a way for such registration, and it exists. The first requirement is either to have a rental contract concluded, the respective permission of the owner to carry out such registration, the separate authorisation of the owner, that is to say those who have registered, have received the relevant authorisation and their registration is legal. However, when the 11th, 12th, 15th person comes, it is clear that they cannot be registered because there is already a violation of these rules. I think you'll agree with that. Purely pragmatic you have reason, but if these criteria were missing, and they exist. It is high time that we, through the Law, try to force the respective administration, the municipal services to start carrying out this control, because there is more serious control when it comes, registering, with two clicks in the system of registry "Population" can be seen what exists as registration at this address, how many are there. Not to mention that if there were a series of other laws, such as the Child Protection Act, these problems would not have existed at all. Because two people with 10 children live in one hut and the relevant services do not take any measures at all. That's the serious problem! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u123	Third line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u124	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I would like to emphasise the meaning of the inspection carried out. That's why a check has to be carried out. This is one of the basic criteria in the verification carried out. You said one hypothesis when we have a subsequent rewrite, but a large part of the problem registrations have previous, non-deleted registrations. This is the point to carry out an inspection and to see exactly who lives on the property, whether the former residents have not been deregistered or have been overwritten as a result of special circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u125	A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u126	Thank you, Madam President. You're right, Mr. Zelenogorski, but this is essentially an interpretation of the Law. It's not listed in it. With regard to the checks carried out, I wanted to note that if there has already been an infringement and if they have already been registered at this address, from now on the Law has no retroactive effect but action in the future. Then what are we going to do with those already registered on these violations for the upcoming elections? Who will determine which of them to be deregistered? That was my very well-intentioned comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u127	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? I can't see. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 5 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 14, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u128	A proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski § 6 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer which is reflected in its systematic place in § 5, and shall therefore propose that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u129	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u130	A proposal from the MPs Ramadan Atalay, Erdinch Hajrula and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov § 7 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u131	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hajrula.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u132	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, our proposal is to dismiss § 7 as this text already exists in this Law. Apart from that, one cannot imperatively determine by law or be obliged to indicate a current address anywhere. This is a personal statement of the person concerned. So the proposed text in art. 96, para. 1 A Bulgarian citizen living abroad states the current address of the country in which he lives in front of the authorities under art. 92, para. 1 according to his permanent address.. this is his own volition, a person personally decides what current address to point to himself. That is why we propose that this paragraph be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u133	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, § 7 proposes the regulation of the possibility of announcing a current address abroad. Since there is currently no provision in the Law to determine the relevant authority to which this must be done, this inevitably creates a difficulty for citizens to do so. With the specific proposal and the entry of supplementary questions under art. Art. 96, para.1 and Art. 99, para. 2 The possibility of Bulgarian citizens abroad to state their current address is regulated only to the municipality at their permanent address in the Republic of Bulgaria. We believe that these changes specify the procedure for carrying out the address registration and, above all, avoid the difficulties of some of the Bulgarian citizens who have a 30-day obligation to state, respectively, to register their change of address. We believe that § 7 should remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u135	Come in, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u136	Thank you, Madam President. From the Patriotic Front we will support § 7 and the text in it. This text and its lack so far also leads to other problems related to insurance legislation, for example. Such are, for example, the regulated texts in the Health Insurance Act, where persons who stay longer outside the borders of Bulgaria should also be able to certify this their 183-day, longer stay. This can happen exactly when there is a text that my colleague Prodanov commented on. We will support § 7, because it makes a lot of sense in this text. Most importantly, it makes the Law much more operational, as is ultimately the intention of the amendment and the supplement of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u137	A hole? I won't. Mrs. Manolova for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u138	Honourable Members, we believe that this text should remain, although it is not proposed in the Bill of our Parliamentary Group. Let us not forget that the definition of the Civil Registration Act for the current address is that this is the address where the citizen lives. In fact, a large part of the problems that arise in administrative, insurance, tax authorities, including election committees, mayors, when preparing the electoral lists, arise because of the fact that there is no accurate information about which Bulgarian citizen where he lives. I think that this is clearly enough in particular on the topic of the election lists, when always before the elections begins the drama of how many people are enrolled. Statistically speaking, the Bulgarians are about seven million and the electoral lists are seven and a half million, and are the children included, are the minors involved? After all, this whole mess arises because of the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian administrative authorities do not know how many of the Bulgarian citizens currently live abroad and in which countries. Our administration doesn't have that kind of information. If we want to make adequate reform of the electoral system, one of the important conditions is accurate information on which Bulgarian citizen lives at the current address. At the moment, the so-called "dead souls" - everyone who has deepened in this problem - knows that there are really no dead souls. There are Bulgarians who live abroad and for whom the Bulgarian administration does not have information that they live abroad at all, even less where they live abroad. Therefore, they are all included in the lists in Bulgaria. The lists swell with 500-700 thousand to one million people, and in the end it is a huge source of calm manipulation of each electoral process. I have always argued that reform in election law is not enough. There must be a comprehensive reform of civil registration. One of the mandatory conditions is for the state to know where Bulgarian citizens live, in which country, in which city even if possible and at which address. This would help the normal functioning of both the administration and the insurance bodies, both the health authorities and the tax authorities and the administration bodies. Especially before elections, including mayors, regional governors and election committees. We will support this text because it provides clarity necessary for the normal functioning of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u139	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I am surprised at the position you expressed that you and your parliamentary group support this text. I thought that our common vision and common concern should facilitate the Bulgarian citizens and their contacts with the administration, make it possible for them to have as few problems as possible in their communication with the Bulgarian administration. However, this text, on the contrary, will lead to the opposite. You know that hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens live for long periods of time abroad. Only they're coming back. First of all, they don't live in the same place. Secondly, they usually travel throughout the year at least once, if not more often, back to the country. The current address is the most variable quantity possible. In principle, a person can change his address every day and declare a new current address. If you accept this text, what will happen? Once entered the system of Grao that man lives for example in Greece, for the Bulgarian administration he will now be living abroad. Look what's happening now! Greece is expected to return 200,000 Bulgarian citizens after the crisis that is taking place there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u141	One hundred and twenty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u142	What's gonna happen? These people will come back here, however, for the Gramo and for the entire state administration they will be conducted abroad because they will be held to have declared as a current address in Greece. And all correspondence, first of all, will be included on the ban list, and when the elections come, and when these people go to vote, they will be denied. You know what happened with those ban lists in the previous election. People who lived somewhere ten years ago in the Netherlands, in Germany, and for ten years have been living back in Bulgaria, were listed only because, once, ten years ago, someone registered them at the current address in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u143	Thank you. Second line, Mr Erdinch.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I just said that there are two articles in this Law before that. What is the purpose of repeating the same text? I'm just reading you this text in art. 94, para. 3: The address of the Bulgarian citizens, where the place of residence is abroad, is reflected in the register of the population only with the name of the country in which they live. Now the same text is proposed two paragraphs after that. Please respond to what is the purpose of the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u145	Thank you. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u146	It is a fact that the citizen's obligation to register his current address has already been discussed in plenary and has it as a valid text in this Law. The difference with this text, as far as I can see, as I stress again that this proposal is not ours, creates a commitment, an obligation for the citizen living abroad to declare his current address. I agree with Mr. Kazak that the really poorly done work of the administration and the Ministry of Interior can also cause great damage during elections, including citizens who have the right to vote on the ban list and deprive them of their right to vote. So here we really need to act very carefully and with regulations. I would also like to remind you that we have taken all measures in the Election Code all Bulgarian citizens who are incorrectly included in the ban list have the opportunity to present evidence on the election day that there are no prohibitions of electoral rules in relation to them. That is, the mayors will work, the municipal administrations and citizens who are wrongly excluded from the list will be even more placed on the ban list, they will be able to verify duly that they meet both the requirements for sitting and all other requirements for exercising their right to vote. In fact, the huge problem that arose in the 2011 elections. It was precisely because of this imperfection of the Election Code, then made by another majority, according to which once you were on the ban list, you had absolutely no right to object, to change it. This even in the second round, although the problems in the Law became clear during the first round of elections, in the second round of presidential elections and for mayors citizens who met all the requirements failed to vote. We are talking about tens, even hundreds of thousands of people, over 100,000 on the accounts of the Central Election Commission. Let's hope we've taken every precaution now that this doesn't happen. Otherwise, more order in the civil administration I think is important for the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u147	Procedure Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of a parliamentary group, I ask you for a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u149	Twenty-minute recess, fellow Members, till 13.10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u150	There's a word for it, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hajrula, you have asked a question that no one here wants to answer. The question: what gives rise to the need to repeat a text that exists in art. 94, para. 3 and now it is proposed to be in art. 96, para. 1 of the same meaning as in art. 94? Article 94 regulates and allows Bulgarian citizens to state a current address outside the country and this order is settled. The answer to your question consists in the elections held, I will name some of them conditionally, for example, the 2011 elections, when more than 400 thousand. Bulgarian citizens failed to vote even though they had the desire to vote and participate in the elections, or in 2014 in the same order of Bulgarian citizens with different techniques and use of the terms as living, where we include the current address, could not vote, and now for the current address we include the term "lived." Colleagues, I ask one question: who wants or who dares the present, and not just from here, including the Minister of Regional Development, to answer how all those address registrations and current addresses with a date of January 1st, no matter what year? That's hundreds of thousands. How did these addresses happen? And here it is contained, Mr. Hajrula, the answer to your question. These addresses are business addresses which the state has imposed on Bulgarian citizens who have an address abroad or have citizenship in another country, except in Bulgaria. The state has given them business addresses as a current address with a date of January 1st, regardless of which year, with one single goal to limit the constitutional right of the Bulgarian citizens to vote. This is also clear from today's speeches. The colleagues who are speaking here from this platform do not comment on the idea and the option to improve the order for the civil registration of Bulgarian citizens, and mainly in the debate today the content is how to limit a part of Bulgarian citizens not to vote. The new text, which is proposed now, will most likely be used by those state authorities as an alibi here, from now on it is this and these addresses that are given for service but illegal, to say that they are legal with the new text. It contains the answer to your question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u152	- What's the line? Come in for a statement, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, with this text what colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms said, I am convinced that colleagues from GERB know that there is a repeat, but we have not been able to understand the hidden meaning of everything that is happening. Perhaps it would have been good to take the floor and explain from the stands what it was about. Colleagues, the bills were proposed with the idea of ending the nomadic movement. Let's stop Mr. Vejdi Rashidov from driving buses to Kardzhali to vote. Let's stop those people who register in cantons, in TTZS, in buildings and premises where there's no way to live, people who can vote in the current elections. The question arises, fellow Members, what do we decide? Are we solving the matter with this text? In the Commission, I said, and now I am telling you, with this text, we do not solve the problem, fellow Members. With this text, we only discriminate and tell people: "Those who live in the same garsonier and are an example of a large family of 12 people, if you have 12 other relatives who will register, you have no right. Or the other thing we're saying, you can have five houses, they're about 500, 600, 700 squares, you're not allowed to register more than your relatives. However, you will see further that there is a text in which we say to each member who will be registered, the municipality or the state to provide 10 sq. m. If this obligation for the 10 sq. M entered this text, then you should know that everyone who lives in a chamber of 44 square feet and there are 12 people, the state and the municipality will have the obligation to provide the corresponding area. Or in the text we say: "No, the state will not provide them. " - Well, where is duality then? Once it comes to people not using their voting rights or majority voting rights to go to Vecdi Rashidov, we stop them, and the second time we say, "You should have 10 sq. We must tear down your house, but the municipality or the state is not obliged to provide you with these 10 square meters. .................................................... This duality with these texts does not decide neither the nomadic nor the movement of people by voting from one place to another. You decide only one single question.. you give the ban list of 750,000 to become from 1 million citizens who have no right to vote. That's what you decide with this text. In your quest, GERB, to stop the Reformers in one way or another from trying to win any municipality, whether it is rural or where you want 100 inhabitants to have in one place, to have elections, and thus try to enter there, with money to enter or in any other way, to have ten or fifteen votes from these municipalities, you do not decide with this text. Colleagues, the idea or what you're proposing with this text, first of all, you're banning people's free movement. Secondly, you make people register or want to register where they live, or you want to track them when they go to England. I don't know, the Patriots may want to see Mr. Siderov with whom he's going to Paris or the Reformers to see Mr. Boyko Borisov going with whom he's going and what he's going for. If you have such intentions, not in this text, colleagues! Not in the address bookings! To burden every citizen with an unnecessary obligation to go to the municipality, to the registration and to the Ministry of Interior, because he has gone to Turkey, to Macedonia, to Canada, is not democratic. So I suggest if you have any arguments, come out and tell me why you're offering this text. If you do not have a hearing capacity for our arguments, it is better not to accept this text, to drop by itself, even if you do not vote for the motion of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, so that we do not create a bigger mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u154	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u155	We're in line mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u156	There were no lines. It's speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u157	I'm in the front row...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I want a procedure. A short time ago, a break was requested, which showed that most of the representatives of the DPS did not consult, but simply lined up in the buffet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u159	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u160	They must have been hungry. I don't. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u161	No! We were choking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u162	For this reason, since the same things are repeated, nothing substantial has been said. Sir, Ayturla, if he's very keen on me to explain to him the difference between art. 94 and the proposed changes to § 7.. to order, I will explain to him, clearly not clear. I would like to put an end to this debate, as there is nothing more to be said than what is being said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u163	Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u164	Thank you. Mr. Bajraktarov is currently replacing colleague Tsvetomir Mihov. [[Laughter and lines from DPS.]] Firstly, Madam President, you saw very well that I said a speech. Secondly, I think it has proved that the debate is serious enough and the problem is serious enough and deserves attention. We have not heard any arguments essentially in support of this text. I expect Mr. Prodanov, for example, other colleagues who have worked on this matter to stand up and protect him. So the debate must continue. Especially for me, I would like to make the statement I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u165	I shall put the proposal to the vote. I shall put to the vote the motion put forward to put an end to the debate under § 7. Vote 116 MPs: 94 against 19, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for a personal explanation, Mr. Hajrula. [[Reply of the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, you mentioned him by name by inviting him to clarify texts that are not clear to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u166	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't accept a journalist, as a former mayor of the city, to give me the sense of whether I know the texts of the law or not. Thank you. [[Applause and screams: "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u168	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly [[Replication of MP Dimitar Bayraktarov]] Ramadan Atalay, Erdinch Hajrula and Ahmed Ahmedov for dropping § 7, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 23, against 63, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u169	Madam President, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. First of all, I didn't mention the name of the person in question. [[DPS lines.]] If he recognized himself as an Ayturla, you can check the transcripts of what I said, that's his problem. Secondly, a personal explanation can only be requested during a speech, according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u170	Where does it say that, Mr. Bayraktarov? Now I have to call you to take a personal explanation, to read our rules outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u171	Let's read it if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u172	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u173	That's what the rules say. I've done the procedure, during the procedure you can't ask for a personal explanation. If you introduce new rules, that is another matter. You tell me where during the procedure someone has the right to request a personal explanation? That's what I'm asking you, come on now you read it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u174	Mr. Zelenogorski, proceed with the next paragraph. Wait a minute! We have rejected only the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly and now I put to the vote the proposal of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 6. Vote 116 MPs: 94, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Negative vote by Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I voted against this text, because this text once again proves a misunderstanding, an overachiever of the administration, because it comes from the Bulgarian administration. It is no secret to anyone that it is made up in the Directorate General........................................ in order to facilitate the work of the employees of the................................................................................................ It is independent of the fact, firstly, that the current address is often variable. Secondly, when you declare your current address and return to Bulgaria, and many of our compatriots, although they live abroad longer during the year, often return to Bulgaria when they return, should each time declare a current address in Bulgaria again, if they do not want to have serious consequences, including during the elections, not be included in the ban list. This text is a big misunderstanding. Unfortunately, you have not listened once again to our arguments, alone and alone, and clearly because they come from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Nothing, we will continue to pay attention to you when you are about to make another mistake. From then on, we wash our hands and the burden of these legislative misunderstandings falls on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u176	Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u177	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! There is a proposal from Nayden Zelenogorski, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7, which reads: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98, para. 1 the words in the municipality or the town hall shall be replaced by the bodies referred to in art. 92, para. 1 in the municipality, the region, the town hall or the locality
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u178	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote a new § 7 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 124 MPs: 107, against 2, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u179	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The address card for changing the current address shall be submitted to the authorities under art. 92, para. 1 in the municipality, the region, the town hall or the locality where the person lives. When a Bulgarian citizen lives abroad, the address card for changing the current address shall be submitted to the authorities under art. 92, para. 1 in the municipality, the region, the town hall or the locality at a permanent address. The address card is processed immediately for an update of the National Database. 2. A new para is being created. 4. No current or permanent address may be registered for more than four months in a hotel, motel, holiday home or other accommodation. The limitation referred to in the first sentence shall also apply where re-registered is carried out in the same or other place of shelter on the territory of the same municipality. 3. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u180	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam President, first of all, I propose that you take note of this. 1 drop sentence two, i.e. in the amended para. 2 to drop sentence two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u182	"When a Bulgarian citizen lives abroad,... " is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u183	Yeah. That sentence should be dropped. You've already heard the arguments in the previous paragraph. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Zelenogorski, I hope that someone will explain why a restriction is introduced in the new para. 4 for registration no more than four months in hotel, motel and so on. Personally, I know people who live in a hotel all year round. They agreed with the hotel owner to pay for a rental room. They pay every month rent, use and live in the room all year round. Apparently, they are more profitable than paying rent in an apartment, in a residential co-op, to pay a room in a hotel where their room is clean and receive certain advantages over renting a flat on the free market. Why is this restriction introduced? I need someone to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u184	- What's the line? Mr. Zelenogorski, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u185	I'll try to be brief. If I have to, I'll talk later. The problem is actually related to the fact that there are electoral tourism and in some, mainly resort settlements, it turns out that before the election the population swells to say 8500 people in Nessebar. That is precisely why this is how we try to ensure the inability of electoral tourism at addresses where certain families live. We would like the same to happen with regard to registration in hotels, shelters or other outlets. Let's be clear: what we have proposed does not mean that you cannot ask for a new registration every four months. The point is, when your registration expires in four months, you can file for another four months, but you will be under the special control of the institutions that carry out the registration. It can be refused under certain circumstances if it violates the law. Otherwise, there are serious concerns that in such resort towns, whether they are on the Black Sea or in the mountains, it is possible to come to such electoral tourism. Summer and winter seasons are about four months, that is, if people have gone to work there and lived there for four months, then leave their workplace and return to the place where they live constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u186	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov. Third line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kazak, the question you're raising, which you want an answer to, is extremely serious. It has nothing to do with what contractual relationship you will enter when renting a hotel room and under what conditions you will pay it. It is a question, first of all, of taxation. If you rent it out under different conditions, you will have to announce this to the National Revenue Agency. That's about what you're putting in there. Regarding the issue of national security, every hotel, regardless of how it gives its rooms to users, is obliged under the Bulgarian legislation even when renting a room to provide a map for an address registration. It's a mandatory condition. Otherwise, the hotelier violates the Bulgarian legislation. Why is this being done? This is done, first of all, from a security point of view, for the simple reason that, for example, not so nice people from ISIL can cross Bulgaria, register in different hotels and then happen a bomb blast, which happened on July 18 at Sarafovo Airport in Burgas, and the services, and the Ministry of Interior to wonder where the person concerned was staying because someone like you insists not to have such an address registration. I hope you are well aware of what I am saying, because it is extremely important and it is not a coincidence that these things are introduced as mandatory requirements. We will, of course, insist and support the text of the importer, because it is the right text not only from the perspective of electoral tourism, which has been bothering you so much. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u188	Is there another line? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kazak, you said you knew people who live in a hotel all year round. It is not bad for the people's representation to specify which hotels we are talking about..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Whichever one you want, but it's good to set an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u190	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kazak, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last line I'm gonna answer is, the cop's been a cop his whole life. [[Laughter and excitement.]] He keeps asking for specific information, like we're on interrogation here. Now, more serious. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, first, as the colleague said, the airport is Burgas and is located in Sarafovo, not Sarafovo Airport, which is located in Burgas. As in Sofia, Sofia airport is called, but is located in the district of Vrajdebna. Second, where's Yambol, where's Stambul? What are we talking about, where did you go, where did you drag us to ISIS, to terrorist acts and so on?! [[Laughter and excitement.]] Mr. Bajraktarov, is there not so far this obligation, which you so irrigationly informed us that hotels are obliged to register, to transmit information to the Ministry of Interior and so on? Does this prevent terrorists from carrying out the terrorist act at Burgas Airport that they should now, see, by dropping the obligation that no one is proposing, we will facilitate the terrorists? The terrorist, whatever you do, if it's a good organization, slender, if they're up to something, they do it. Don't bother or distract us now from the subject we are discussing, and it is very simple. Mr. Zelenogorski, you have correctly addressed the text, but it is in it that the last sentence says that the limit by sentence is also applied first when re-registered. That is, in four months' time, you will actually forbid this person from registering again, even though he continues to live, for example, in a hotel. Then where to register the person at the current address when you limit him to four months? When the four months have passed and he continues to live in this hotel because he started working in a city where he has an enterprise that recruits workers, and has settled in a hotel, he pays rent every month so he has agreed with the owner of the hotel, after four months where, on the street to stay, or to declare a false current address only because you forbid him to confirm that he continues to live in the same hotel? Here's a question for you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u192	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try again to draw your attention to § 8 of the creation of a new para. 4. Colleagues, what do we decide with this issue? I'm still sorry that my colleagues didn't come out and explain. We want to make a Nessebar Law, so our colleagues explained in the Commission. In Nessebar, imagine, 8,000 people registered at the beginning of the season. If 8,000 people are registered in February and the elections are July months, if we get them to re-registered in the fourth month, according to the six-month sedentary, we make these 8,000 people not vote. We're adding to the ban list again. Colleagues, if we are going to make a law for Nessebar, a law for Pamporovo, let us make a law for the regions where people, when they go to work temporarily, in some way to make it easier for them to vote, not to ban them. Very right are the colleagues here who have found that those who live... I have a friend who really lives in a hotel. That's where he checked in. There's no other house. This guy every four months, are we gonna get him to re-registered when he has an address check-in every night, the police come to this hotel and get the address records? Colleagues, we were never serious when we passed a law with a smile, a law with neglect. If you are happy that you are creating difficulties for the Bulgarian citizens not to be able to vote, not to know when, how and how to register, to account for when and with whom they go abroad, you will not continue to live long on the political stage. I just want to suggest that I confirm and I want para. Four down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u194	First line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal: in § 8, item 8. 1 para. 2 is amended as follows: The address card for the change of this address shall be submitted to the authorities referred to in Article 2. 92, para. 1 in the municipality, the region, the town hall or the locality where the person lives. The second sentence is off. Is that clear? This is Mr. Kazak's proposal "the second sentence of § 8, t. 1, para. 2 changes the way I read. Please vote. They voted 126 MPs: 24, against 76, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Atalay's proposal § 8, p. 2 to create a new para. Four down. We vote al. 4 drop out of § 8. They voted 118 MPs: 19 against 76, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 8 in the version of the Commission. 120 MPs voted: 104 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u195	Under § 9 there is a proposal from Nayden Zelenogorski, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Article 99a is amended as follows: Art. 99a. In the case of a change to the address registration by permanent or current address, the number of persons who may be registered by permanent and/or current address of the address of one residence shall not exceed the two-time number of persons who may normally reside in the home concerned. In determining the total number of persons, account shall also be taken of registered owners, users, tenants or residents on another legal basis. In cases where the dwelling is occupied only by relatives on a straight line, on a competitive line to the fourth degree, including or by matchmaking to the second degree, a three-fold increase in the number of persons who can normally live in the dwelling is allowed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u196	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 in the version of the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 107 against 3, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u197	Under § 10, there is a proposal from Dobromir Prodanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Section III with Article 4 shall be established in Chapter 4. 99b: "Department III" Perform verification Art. 99b. (1) Upon written notice or at the request of the owner of a property submitted to an authority under art. 92, para. 1 or to the district governor for violation of art. Art. 92 or art. 99a, as well as on its own initiative, the mayor of the municipality or of the area shall issue a commission order to carry out a verification of compliance with the requirements for carrying out an address registration or change of address. The composition of the committee includes officials from the respective municipal administration, representatives of the respective regional administration, the territorial structural units of the Ministry of Interior and the Directorate General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In the case of a written alert or a request from a property owner, the order for designation of the commission shall be issued within three days of receipt and shall be announced on the notice board and on the municipal website. If the mayor does not issue the order within the specified time limit, it shall be issued by the district governor. (2) The check under para. 1 shall be carried out within 7 days of issuing the order for the designation of the Commission. Minutes shall be drawn up for the results of the verification. (3) Within three days of the verification and on the basis of the Protocol under para. 2 The mayor of the municipality shall issue an order for the deletion of address registrations which have been found to have been committed in violation of art. Art. 92 or Art. 99a and sends summary information through the respective territorial unit......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (4) At the beginning of each school year the Rectors of Higher Schools shall provide the relevant bodies under art. 92, para. 1 an up-to-date list of persons accommodated in student dorms and the number of persons accommodated in one room shall not exceed the number of beds therein. Address registrations of persons not included in the lists referred to in the first sentence shall be deleted by order of the authority under art. 92, para. 1. (5) A person whose address of registration at a permanent address has been deleted shall be required within one month of being notified to change his personal documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u198	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With regard to the changes cited, I express the following opinions. I believe that there is a need for legislative changes in the area for which amendments to the Law are proposed. Currently, there are legislative measures in the Civil Registration Act to limit the phenomenon of domestic electoral tourism by providing control opportunities by the mayors of municipalities regarding the violation of the Civil Registration Act by officials and citizens, including in relation to the address registration. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior also have the power to identify infringements concerning address registrations and to impose fines. However, the provision of an explicit procedure in the new provision of art. 99b, which provides for joint actions by the municipal administration, the territorial units of the Ministry of Interior and the regional government in case of doubt of non-compliance with the requirements for making an address registration, is not, in my view, unnecessary. On the contrary, I find that the existence of such would have a perfect effect in terms of registrations committed in violation of the Law. I believe that it needs to be defined and detailed in para. Art. 3 of art. 99b automated deletion in the register of the population cases of detected infringements under art. Art. 92, Art. 99a from the Directorate General of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, because it is not clear from the scheduled project what registration the persons whose registration will be deleted will be registered at the previous address of the person or will have to state a new permanent or current address. I do not support the proposal for a new registration under para. 3 of the Draft Law, made by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, setting a time limit within which the municipal administration should provide the Directorate-General with information on the persons whose address registration must be deleted automatically. I propose an al. Three down. What is envisaged in para. 4 of the draft obligation for notification of persons whose address registration has been deleted should also be refined whether this will be an obligation of the General Directorate of MRB or of the relevant municipal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. You're suggesting that we drop para. 3 in art. 99b. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, Mr. Prodanov's proposal and a group of MPs is within 15 days following the announcement of the Bill in the Official Gazette to put order in what has happened to the movement of people associated with the elections and with a greater calmness that the elections will be fair. It worries me that in al. 1 when it is signaled under art. Art. 92, Art. 99 a signal was submitted, an authority on these two members is the mayor of the municipality. We also complement the district governor. We need to have more confidence in the local authorities one time. Secondly, there are infinitely many people who can have control over it. If the mayor does not react, he can be given to a prosecutor under the Law on Administration, under all laws in the country that he does not comply with the Bulgarian laws. Now we put a guardian on him, we bring in the district manager. My proposal is.. and in the Commission was such................................................................................. Ninety-nine to the district manager to fall. There can always be a copy of the correspondence to the mayor with a copy to the governor. Why would we put him in a bill? Third, the last sentence of para. 1 in the event that the mayor does not issue an order within the specified time limit, it shall also be issued by the governor of the district. Let's let the mayors do their job. The lights are glowing well enough, the civilian control has it. On the occasion of the elections, the parties are in condition. There's no way the mayors are going around that. That is precisely why I am opposed to making further clarification with the regional managers. The district manager is a clerk, the mayor is something else. He is an elected person under the Law on Local Self-government, under art. Art. 92 and under Art. 99 he's the organ. Then we have to change art. Art. 92, Art. Ninety-nine, and assuming that there's really a possibility that there's a custody of the mayor's power. This is what I wanted to share, because in the end the Law is not in the specific case, the law may give more stable order and greater peace to citizens for trust in future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u202	A line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Yankova, that is why it is necessary to include the governor of the district because a large part of the violations are carried out with the enormous cooperation, the assumption that I should not say, in some cases, with the incitement of the mayor. Much of the violations could not have been committed if the mayor strictly fulfilled his duties. I mean, without assuming the mayor's definitive guilty behaviour, we should allow the normal, usual and, I would say, standard administrative control of his actions or omissions. As you know, in many cases, the control of legality is carried out by the district governor. Therefore, not as a second instance, I would say, as an opportunity for inaction, the district governor is also indicated to react to the mayor's inaction and to carry out the necessary verification. I'm sure you understand the meaning of this proposal. I regret that in this way the text has become quite bulky, but although clumsy it seems comprehensive and I hope it will achieve the effect it is proposed for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u204	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, I have infinite respect for your opinion and I am convinced that what you are saying is a result of a good design. However, let us not forget that lately we have been observing the geography of a political force, which is in this way moving a marginal population to be part of power. I will not comment that a large part of the mayors are directly interested in these processes happening. I will not comment that, for example, in Burgas, the case. Alain poppy 13s became emblematic. Over 200 people were registered in such a marginal society. You understand that if the law does not allow for more serious control, there is no way to influence it. And right now you're hearing here a former mayor who said he didn't take advice from journalists, only he forgets that the media are not fourth, but first power. [[Heckling]] He forgets that it is through the media that we learn all the outrage that is happening and that we and the whole society are witnessing. It was the media that brought out all the outrage even when two mayors were beaten with one stake because they were very educated. Just to add that a journalist requires at least higher education, and no education is required for a mayor, even a certificate of psychotest is not required. [[Replying and shouting.]] I want you to keep that in mind because we don't know tomorrow what kind of person will be elected even as mayor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u206	Third line? You're giving up. Here you go, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I understand the desire for control at this moment. In parallel, the district governor can always rule on the mayor's acts. You were one, and you know it. We don't have to have that kind of distrust over the local authorities. The mayors and under art. Art. 92, and under Art. 99 have their competences and have their responsibility. Let there be order in the state, to have a clear responsibility, not to put one on each one. Regarding what Mr. Bayraktarov said, I disagree. In my constituency, there are mayors who are different from the dispute you are having with the party you are arguing with over many issues. He brought his relatives from the neighboring district, and the governor of the district is his partner. This does not mean that all parties in this process were not tempted to do what we want to cross. Today's debate I see as an effort to give more guarantee to the voters, the legislator will give a greater guarantee that their vote will be reflected, that it will be fair and that there will be order. I wouldn't want to burden one party or another, but in the situation we are walking in, we are distorting the legislative process. That's why I'm totally against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-08.u208	Thank you. The speech will be tomorrow at 9:00. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of [[PHONE RINGING]]
