ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the programme adopted by us for this plenary week as the first item for today is provided: SELECTION OF DEPARTMENTS AND TWO MEMBERS OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS. The procedure of the election is by rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 5 March 2015, promulgated in No. 18 of the Official Journal. I will recall the procedure of the Members of the National Assembly, as we have defined it ourselves. By the Decision adopting the procedural rules: "V." Election of a candidate for President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate is present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. However, this is the proposal for the President himself, which we have already passed on this decision, so we are going directly to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will present to us. The procedure is a common procedure for President, Vice-Presidents and Members. After the report, if necessary, I will recall the decision again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u2	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I'm going to ask you for a procedure. To vote in this Chamber to be admitted: Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Goritsa Gruncharova, candidate for Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Todorov, candidate for Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Georgi Ivanov, candidate for member of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Emil Evlogiev, candidate for member of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u3	Voting mode please. Vote 148 MPs: 148, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on Hearing the Candidates for Vice-Presidents proposed by the President of the Court of Auditors? Goritsa Nikolova Gruncharova-Kozhareva and Toshko Ivanov Todorov, and for Members Georgi Stefanov Ivanov and Emil Asenov Evlogiev At an extraordinary meeting held on 7 April 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors, in accordance with Section III of the Rules of Procedure adopted on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly (GCC, p. 18 from 2015), hereinafter referred to as "the Rules of Procedure'. The sitting was broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that the documents submitted to the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors by candidates for Vice-Presidents and Members meet the requirements of the Law on the Court of Auditors for taking up the relevant positions and should be admitted to a hearing. The candidates were presented by the President of the Court of Auditors Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov and the Chairs of the Boards of Directors of the Institute of Graduated Accountants and the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria. Mrs. Gorica Gruncharova and Mr. Toshko Todorov are proposed as Vice-Presidents. Because it's a résumé, I'm not gonna read the whole report. Biographical data for Mrs. Goritsa Gruncharova and Mr. Toshko Todorov, as well as Professor Todorov are following. Dr. Georgi Stefanov Ivanov and Emil Asenov Evlogiev. Following the submission of the applications of the four candidates, their personal presentation and presentation of their concept of the Court of Auditors' activities have been changed. In the concepts presented by the candidates as Vice-Presidents, the following main priorities have been highlighted in their work: strengthening the Court of Auditors as an independent external audit body; developing cooperation with the supreme audit institutions to absorb and implement best international audit practices; synchronising the Court of Auditors' activities with the activities of other control bodies; the efforts will mainly be aimed at carrying out more audit audits in socially sensitive areas that will show whether public funds are being spent efficiently, efficiently and economically; building up the administrative capacity of the Court of Auditors by strengthening staff training. Candidates for Members noted that their activities would be limited to their powers under the Law on the Court of Auditors and the protection of the public position in the College. According to T. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova reported the opinion and questions received by Mr. Angel Angelov, acting as President of the Union of Auditors from the Court of Auditors. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that the questions should not be admitted as they are ridiculous, vague and not relevant to the hearing of the candidates. Discussions were held in the Committee on Budget and Finance on proposals for candidates for Vice-Presidents and members of the Court of Auditors. The Members of the National Assembly have asked their questions to the candidates who have been answered in full and in depth. The Committee on Budget and Finance has found that the four candidates meet the legal requirements for taking the relevant posts for Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates, as well as the qualifications they acquired, are positive prerequisites for implementing the competent and responsible management of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to examine and vote the candidates proposed by the President of the Court of Auditors for Vice-Presidents, Mrs. Gorica Nikolova Gruncharova-Kozhareva and Mr. Tosko Ivanov, and for members Mr. Georgi Stefanov and Mr. Emil Asenov Evlogiev, in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for which the draft decision for each candidate applies to this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. In accordance with art. 14, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, Vice-Presidents shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Court of Auditors. The rules of procedure in Section IV provide for each candidate to be submitted by the importer, i.e. by the President of the Court of Auditors, within two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetkov, to present the candidates for Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to you very briefly my proposals for Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria and my proposals by the Institute of Graduated Accountants for a Member of the Court of Auditors and by the Institute of Internal Auditors. I'll start the presentation with Mrs. Gorica Gruncharova Pozhareva. She has graduated from the Industrial Academy "Dimitar Tsenov" in Svishtov, specialty "Accounting and Control." She started working as an accountant at DZI Razlog, in 1989. Before being elected a member of the Court of Auditors in 2005, she had extensive experience and a long career in the banking and financial sector. On 13 April 2005, she was elected a member of the Court of Auditors, which was until 26 January 2011. She led a department of the Court of Auditors, which carried out audits of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the National Statistical Institute and the Commission for Personal Data Protection. From April 2011 to June 2014 he was a member of the Constitutional Council of the Court of Auditors. On 11 June 2014 she was elected again as a member of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria, where she runs an audit unit with a range of National Assembly, Administration of the President and Council of Ministers. The next candidate for Vice-President is Mr. Toshko Todorov. He has also graduated from the Industrial Academy "Dimitar Tsenov" "Svishtov." He started working as an accountant, but then gained extensive professional experience at different levels in the tax administration. During the 1992 period, he was consecutively a tax and tax inspector general, chief tax expert, head of the office of "Sacrifice" and head of the territorial management of the tax administration of Dobrich, and from 2000 to 2005. "Director of the Territorial Tax Directorate of Dobrich." From January to June 2006 he was Deputy Director of the Audition and Management of the Implementation at the Tax Office of Varna, and then until 2008 he was chief expert in the same structure of the Central Management of the NRA of the city of Sofia. From August 2009 to May 2012 he was Deputy Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. From August 2012 to July 2013 he was operational assistant to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and then worked in the private sector. Mr. Emil Evlogiev has been proposed as a member of the Court of Auditors. He also graduated from Carl Marx, Master of Economics. He walked all the way from a regular accountant through a deputy head to the chief accountant of a manufacturing company. He's been a certified accountant and registered auditor for 20 years. Since September 2002 he has been Vice-President of the IDEC Control Board and since 2005 he has been Chairman of the Control Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants. In April 2011, he became Vice-President of the IDEC Governing Council, re-elected for a second term in April 2014. Prof. Georgi Ivanov graduated from the Industrial Academy of Economics "Dimitar Tsenov" "Svishtov," specialty "accounting" and internal control. He's an economics professor. His whole career went to the Academy. From 2004 to 2007 she was Chairman of her Control Board and from 2007 to 2011 she was Director of the Centre for Quality of Training. Since 1988 he has been a lecturer and since 2011 he has been head of the Department of Economic Affairs and Analysis at the Academy. He is a member of the International Institute of Internal Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, to conclude, I believe that the nominations I have proposed for Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors and for members of the Court of Auditors are indisputable specialists with an undisputed public reputation. If they are chosen by you, I will be satisfied. I assure you that we will be able to work with them as a team to improve the efficiency of the Court of Auditors and the prosperity of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. The debate is open. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u8	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear colleagues of GERB, I will not repeat the arguments against the way in which the Court of Auditors is elected because I have already had the opportunity to explain it several times. I guess Ruse's got it figured out by now. [[Arrival in GERB.]] I will not mention the arguments that changing the composition of the Court of Auditors is a purely political exercise in order to subordinate this body to the new parliamentary majority. I will make a few observations on the way the candidates have been selected. There is nothing to comment on for the two Vice-Presidents. At least it's clear there. One proposed by the Patriotic Front, the other proposed by GERB. It is clear that these are political proposals. With regard to the two candidates proposed by supposedly NGOs, I would like to share a few words under the procedure itself for their nominations and choices for those MPs who want to hear my arguments. I've had enough of the audience with the way the Institute of Internal Auditors has made its own rules of procedure for the fact that candidates must have paid membership fees, signed a declaration of loyalty with the NGO. I will not be petty to ask the applicant of this organisation whether it will respect this agreement or its powers as a member of the Court of Auditors, nor the candidate of the Institute of Graduated Accountants which of the two oaths it makes will respect that as a member of the Court of Auditors or as a member of the NGO. I would like to ask and I would like to draw your attention to the way in which one member of the Court of Auditors has been elected, proposed by the President of the Court of Auditors, something that you will shortly vote on. Note that for this public and supposedly transparent procedure in which the Members of the National Assembly should have participated, including being elected by a large majority, the choice took place in practice among the members of the Boards of the two organisations. The people we are going to choose today are listed and selected real and formal by five people. I have an official response from one organization. The Institute of Graduated Accountants, for their members, for the way they have chosen their candidate. Very curiously, the Board of Directors of 9 people who had the right to elect this candidate, which you will now electorally confirm, at the meeting in question, at which the hearing and the vote were held, were attended by five members of the Board of Directors. I put aside the fact that the Governing Council has made two proposals among its own members and ended up focusing on one of them. According to the procedure adopted, these five people from the Governing Council of one organisation vote for four candidates, while choosing a secret vote or a clear vote, it is as if each of them voted by order: for the first one, for the second two points, for the third three points, for the fourth four points. In the end, he wins the one who gets the least points. Standard procedure. However, there is one.................................................. These five people, who will determine the member of one of the most important authorities in the country, in fact, having carried out the vote, received the following classification. The first candidate received 9 points, the second one, 14 the third one, 16 the fourth candidate, 21 points. Or sum up to 60 points in total. If we calculate what the point result of voting five members for four candidates under this system should be, the number 50 shall be obtained. That is, even by formal indicators of how one of the candidates is elected, which you will now vote in plenary, it becomes clear that there is an embarrassing circumstance and that something is not the case in this choice. In my opinion, this is a simple mathematical task -- a part of those present are certainly better in mathematics than I am -- I will give them these numbers, sit down to multiply, collect and eventually establish -- [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Yes, I suppose Mrs. Karayancheva and her colleagues are not interested in this part of the procedure at all. Perhaps it is normal for you to do so because it is clear what sees behind this formal choice. I ask the lawyers in this Chamber: because it is a complex factual composition in the election of members of the Court of Auditors, if the first part of this procedure is vitiated, that is, the proposal of the NGO is made against the rules of the NGO and one of the members of this NGO attacks this choice, because it is still a civil association which is subject to certain rules, to certain laws, what happens with the final choice? You are now going to vote on a proposal behind which are five people from the same organization. At least two political forces are behind the two vice-presidents: behind one "Patriotic Front," behind the other "GERB." Whatever the two candidates are doing, it is clear who is politically responsible. I ask: who is responsible for the two candidates who have been proposed by NGOs because behind one's candidacy are five votes. Five votes of five internal accountants. I'm not saying the candidates are responsible for the situation. After all, everyone has the right to participate and pursue some career and other own development. Once again, I stress that the procedural rules adopted by this Parliament and, above all, the Court of Auditors' Election Act do not provide any guarantees either for publicity or for transparency or for a specific competition between candidates. Just the ruling majority put them in order, and in a rather uncool way, in which two NGOs were involved, and it turns out that for one of the candidates he could be a perfect professional, at the moment individuals do not comment on the real behind him stand five signatures, five votes of five accountants expert. Moreover, here again the question is asked what is the choice in which four people are involved four out of four. Four proposals, for two of which political forces, for the other two will become clear whether two other political forces or once again persons from the ruling majority. In the end, the conclusion of both the amendment of the Law and the procedure and the rules and the final vote is one, the one that we previously announced - the majority requesting four plus wants to secure an obedient audit body. You have not convinced us anyway that this body will be impartial, nor that it will be independent, nor that it will be professional. You discredited him in advance with the way you defined people, with a procedure that is really ridiculous, ridiculous, and it is absolutely inexplicable for the choice of the most important audit body in the Bulgarian state, where two of the candidates are proposed and supported by five members of the Boards of Directors. You could have offered them, clearly standing the block behind one, the ABB behind the other, or whatever you distribute them. This supposed independence is really offensive to both the Bulgarian National Assembly and Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u9	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u10	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I'm sorry that this is the second time I have to replicate you from this tribune. However, with regard to the choice of IDEA and the first time I said I was also interested, I have information that the choice was made according to all the rules of this body. Proposals have been requested from all regional organisations and indeed the authority it proposes is the Governing Council. Both all authorities and this body shall have the right to propose these applications. Even then, I said that you were misled in terms of this candidacy and this choice. You didn't comply and you're putting that question again. I want to assure you that the application is really presented in the order of the IDEA, as are their rules of choice, there is no order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u11	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u12	Honourable Members, Madam President! I don't talk in general, I talk to documents. For each of the MPs who will ultimately be interested in how the two candidates are broadcast, I can present official documents, official statements from the managing authorities on how the procedure has been carried out. Once again, there I came across the inexplicable way in which the final ranking was made. With a simple mathematical account for a fourth grader it becomes clear that and even formally what is offered to you does not comply with the rules which the Board itself has adopted. Again, I do not comment on the professional qualities of the candidates. Indeed, neither do I know them nor have sufficient competence to assess whether an accountant expert or an internal auditor is sufficiently prepared and qualified to exercise the powers of a member of the Court of Auditors, so I do not comment on the professional qualities, personal competence, professional history of each candidate. What I'm saying again is that you have passed a law and rules that pre-discredit these people. Instead of being elected after a real competition procedure in the National Assembly, instead of each of these organizations proposing that several candidates or MPs propose such rather than really including the non-governmental sector, which the reformers insisted on, in practice, you choose people supported by four or five members of the board of directors. It's pseudotransparency, pseudo-publicity, pseudo-competence. All of this is at stake by the way in which you have approached the Court of Auditors' choice. I suppose that ultimately the President of the Budget Committee is pleased because she has been able to push her idea, especially for the staff of the Court of Auditors. We are about to see how this will affect her work. Despite all criticisms, the current Chamber of the Court of Auditors cannot be accused of either partyity or bias or lack of professionalism. I would wish the new Members to follow the high standard of the Court of Auditors, which has been liquidated by this parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u13	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I propose to your attention a draft decision for the election of Vice-President of the Court of Auditors an annex to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which Mrs. Stoyanova introduced to us. "Project" DECISION appointing the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12 and 14, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED He elected Gorica Nikolova Gruncharova-Kojareva as Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Voting mode. Vote 147 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION appointing the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 12 and Art. 14, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED He elected Toshko Ivanov Todorov as Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 103, 20, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Project! DECISION appointing a member of the Court of Auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 12 and Art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Stefanov Ivanov as a member of the Court of Auditors. We vote. They voted 127 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u14	In groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u15	Mrs. Stoyanova, if you go further, you can see the monitors and the result is there. [[Replys from the right.]] You can also use glasses for those who can't see. Thank you. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the Court of Auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 12 and Art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED He elected Emil Asenov Evlogiev as a member of the Court of Auditors. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 125 MPs: 110, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Let's end the oath and then. I ask that the elected Vice-Presidents and two Members be kind enough to take an oath before the People's Representation. [[Everyone's up. The elected Vice-Presidents and two members shall take the place of the stands.]] Here you go. Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u16	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the performance of the functions entrusted to the Court of Auditors by guiding myself by the principles of independence, objectivity and good faith in the performance of my duties entrusted to me by law. I swore. Congratulations! [[Applause. The Presidency welcomes the newly elected Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u17	The hearing is ongoing. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Manolova, because you have tried not to show in groups the vote. This group vote doesn't have to be me alone when I ask for it by yelling out loud. It is necessary to see the colleagues, since from this stands 10 minutes. Mrs. Manolova explained to us how the Court of Auditors is a political representation of this Parliament. He was explaining to us how the Court of Auditors is an agreement between political parties. Madam President, only the vote, the way of voting for each candidate can guide the people's representation which candidate from which party is supported and then see if we have a coalition, new coalitions and the Court of Auditors or do we have reason to accept Mrs Manolova's words that there is political representation in the Court of Auditors or not? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u19	I welcome your efforts, Mrs. Stoyanova, to defend the thesis you have expressed, but this will hardly happen within the time we have. I think it's an unattainable task. Now you will see from Mrs. Manolova's personal explanation. [[Noise and glad tidings in GERB.]] Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u20	Honourable Members, Madam President! Everyone in the Chamber of Parliament and MPs and citizens saw that in the election of the members of the Court of Auditors there was neither competition nor competition nor public procedure a preliminary agreement which was built up in the ruling majority. For easier two of the applications went through civil organisations where they were, notice, chosen by only four or five members of the board. This is not civil society, this is the long hand of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova [[crowd cheering, loud noise and lines from GERB, laughter]] which perfectly did its job in the interest of its political power and the ruling majority. Excuse me, I do not suffer from political amnesia and for people who have been supported by the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria if I have voted in the foreword for them with.............................................................................. We have supported Mrs Gorica Kojareva in the previous Chamber of the Court of Auditors, so there is no reason to vote against her. Moreover, we praised the work of the Court of Auditors, so did Bulgarian citizens. The fact that GERB decided to order itself a comfortable Court of Auditors is a responsibility which they are yet to bear and that the parties from the ruling majority took part in this process - four plus one - was seen both in the adoption of the Law and in the adoption of the rules of procedure, and in the vote today. It is to be seen, as I have not taken any special time to examine which of the candidates close to which of the parties in the ruling majority is, but this, anyway, I suppose, from those who are interested in the process, is already a fact or will become clear at the nearest time. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Congratulations, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, you have done a brilliant job. You have chosen a staff to serve the majority responsible. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u21	On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Hafuzov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of fellow Muslims in the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedom, I address all of you and all of you Bulgarian citizens professing a heavenly, holy religion, such as Christianity, with congratulations on the upcoming celebration of the Resurrection of Christ, with sincere wishes for health, happiness and well-being. During a period of days of light and abundant festive happiness as a time and occasion to rethink fundamental and universal values such as truth, justice, man-loving, compassion and kindness, if there is anything else to wish for, let God grant us a steadfast faith, an inexhaustible hope, and a sincere, comprehensive, mutual love. And it's a holiday again, guys! It is good to have holidays where we not only wish happiness but to make efforts to achieve it. The MPs are called upon to work, to care, to create conditions for the peace, calmness and happiness of Bulgarian citizens. That is why the people's chosen ones should be at the height of sacrifice and service of the Messiah and Savior Jesus of Nazareth, in our efforts to seek the way to the new beginning, to the resurrection, to the salvation of the Bulgarian nation. Our nation needs unity, understanding and self-esteem to overcome difficult periods and to go its way to success, and that is why we must unite and unite our society in this difficult way. In the days of Passion Week, to rethink our life path, our political behavior, and to be at the height of our expectations to achieve material prosperity and spiritual upliftment. I'd like to finish with a wise thought of St. John's. a. Paul, who says: "As long as there is time, let us do good to everyone. I wish you a peaceful and blessed welcome to the coming Easter. Happy Thanksgiving, dear colleagues, dear Christian brothers and sisters! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u23	Thank you, Mr. Hafuzov. Moving on to the next item of our program for today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXCIES AND DANISH CARDS. Ms. Stoyanova in an expected good mood after the high grade she received from the parliamentary tribune. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u24	That's the highest grade I can get. Dear colleagues! The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 454-01-59, submitted by the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs on 5 December 2014, adopted at the first vote on 4 March 2015. The second vote is the second vote of the project. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on excise and tax warehouses. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements by the name of the Law? I won't. We vote on the name of the Import Act. Vote 95 MPs: 89 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u26	Paragraph 1 supposed by the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 the following 1. In para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. use means to measure and control the places of entry or removal of energy products from and to the pipeline or oil pipeline, part of the tax warehouse, to and from the places of production and/or storage where the tax warehouse is located in the territory of more than one customs office. 2. A new para is being created. 2: A single measuring and control tool shall be permitted in the case of a common place for the introduction or removal of energy products from and to the oil pipeline or oil pipeline, part of the tax warehouse, to and from: 1. the places of production and/or storage, part of the tax warehouse in the cases under para. 1, t. 6; 2. another tax warehouse. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u27	Thank you. Paragraph 1 "two adopted proposals'. Paragraph 1 statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u28	Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of § 2. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of an additional provision and § 2. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes the creation of an additional provision by § 2: "Additional provision' § 2. Customs offices within the meaning of art. 52, para. 1, t. 6 are the customs offices under the Customs Act established at the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u29	Thank you. Statements on the new proposals for a division and § 2? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for the name of the "Additional provision" division and the wording of § 2 proposed by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u30	Proposal of the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov for the creation of a Final provision. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the establishment of a "Concluding provisions' by paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a "Concluding provisions' by paragraphs 3, 4 and 5: "Concluding provisions' § 3. (1) If, until the entry into force of this tax warehouse law located in the territory of more than one customs office, the Customs Office has approved the location of the control points of the places of entry or removal of energy products from and to the pipeline or oil pipeline, part of the tax warehouse, to and from the places of production and/or storage and if there is no change in the process scheme, these control points shall be the places under art. 52, para. 1, t. 6. (2) If, until the entry into force of this Act, the Customs Agency has approved the location of the points of control of the places of entry or removal of energy products from and to the oil pipeline or oil pipeline, part of the tax warehouse, to and from another tax warehouse, after the unification of the tax warehouses, these points of control shall be the places of art. 52, para. 1, t. 6. § 4. Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, authorised warehousekeepers shall bring their activities into line with it. § 5. Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Finance shall bring the ordinance under art. 103a, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u31	Thank you. Statements on the creation of a new division titled "Concluding provisions" containing paragraphs 3, 4 and 5? I won't. We are voting on this proposal. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted and with this the current point of the weekly programme. [[Applause from GERB.]] Moving on to point seven: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GARNIZON (GSA) AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, PRESENTED BY THE MINISTERAGE OF THE EMPLOYMENT, AND ON THE MAINTENANCE OF THE GARNIZON (GSA) UNITED ARMED SYBILS IN EUROPOL (SHAPE) ON THE BASIC SUPPORT OF THE MODUL OF SOLUTION SYSTEM (DCM), THE 2nd NUCLEAR BATALION OF NATO (2NSB). The debate is not complete. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u32	Tell the group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u33	Group time, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are continuing the debate from yesterday. A debate in which we discussed whether here we should build a NATO base. You call it a command center. Other colleagues who spoke yesterday said that this decision was taken during the three coalitions in 2009 as if it had been decided since 2009 that Bulgaria would take such action against other countries. We have no illusion of course that this center, as you say, this headquarters, will work against third countries. When this document was signed for the American bases in 2006 did anyone then know that there would be a threat by the Islamic State (Islamic State), by the way, an organization that worked very closely with John McCain, the senator who came here and was in charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u35	Mr. Chukolov, I want to tell you that time is not extended if you want to extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u36	I want to, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u37	Please extend the time of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u38	Yes, thank you for interrupting. In 2006, when this defence cooperation agreement was signed, in which this formulation was chosen to make sure that there were bases of the United States of America in Bulgaria, that danger of...................................................................... Yesterday there were speeches here about how, you see, the vast state of Turkey threatened us and these bases would protect us from them. They will protect us as much as they protected Cyprus in 1973. Dear colleagues, we call this command center, headquarters, we belittle that. Yesterday the Bulgarian government has decided on a battalion that will be located in Bulgaria. So one battalion, one headquarters, one command center, and then she'll be a soldier. My fellow Members, I must remind you that there are countries in Europe that do not accept NATO to develop any infrastructure in their territory - Slovakia, nor have they excluded them from NATO, nor from the European Union, nor have they bombed them, nor have they in any way pointed them out and said: "See how bad this country is. My call to you is to do so to vote against this decision and to show ultimately that Bulgaria is a sovereign state. Bulgaria is a country that insists on its neutrality. Yesterday this was said in the debates, as far as there were debates, and not Mrs. Tsacheva's inadequacy to leave here to spill insults from this tribune. I call on you for neutrality. Neutrality! What does that mean? It means the United States of America, Russia, the so-called Great Forces, to come to some agreement, an agreement. Let us, I will use this image of the language, not to slap ourselves between the slaps, let us make sure that Bulgaria, if possible, does not interfere, at least in not being the most loyal, most loyal follower of the United States of America and NATO. Let them understand each other and then judge according to our interest, according to the Bulgarian interest. This is the appeal of the attack on you. According to the Bulgarian interest! And the Prime Minister said: "Yes, these sanctions, which are imposed, are not in our interest, but what to do, we go to Brussels and raise our hand, as he put it, I quote it. Why would we do that? Why put Bulgaria in such a position? Then we will wonder why there are no tourists on the Black Sea coast, why the season has suffered, why we tolerate sanctions, why the Bulgarian business suffers? Well, here's the kind of decision we're gonna make in this room. That is why the Bulgarian business and economic situation in Bulgaria suffers. Whatever we're talking about, whatever we're lying to ourselves here, it's clear to everyone that we're dependent on the big Russian side. At such a decision, believe me, no one there will look favorably, no one will say: "Well, yes, Bulgaria is in NATO and so on, no one will find an excuse for this vote that we will do. This is not another vote. Yesterday there was an opportunity, and from this tribune, it was said that at the Christian feast, we vote a third sex of discrimination, today on Great Thursday, we make such a decision. Here, a short time ago, my colleague rightly said that a Christian holiday, a holy Christian holiday, was coming. They're not bright days right now, they're passionate days, the bright days will be after Monday. Jesus of Nazareth is not our Savior, but yes, that is the way to speak, that is the way to meditate. These days, we make the kind of decision we actually make, which is what? We don't have a kindergarten here, we don't have anything else, we have a NATO command headquarters that will coordinate the activities of tens of thousands of NATO soldiers. These NATO soldiers will not plant flowers anywhere in Bulgaria or in other countries, they will carry weapons and this centre here will coordinate them. In a situation that many international analysts and factors say will spread by the end of May. What's this command center gonna sit there and watch it? Let us understand what will be built here in Bulgaria and what we are voting for at this time. My appeal to you is: "Vote against it." Many times in this room there have been decisions that you have said about.. Let us put it to public discussion, let civil society say, NGOs and so on. Now look at how and the program is so press, give, let us make this decision at all costs. It is natural that the order is given and we here what? We'll run this errand. We don't have the right to do this. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My request to you is: understand what we are voting on! Many times in this room has happened so, yes, an important decision and abstain. Come on, hold it right there! Let's vote against this! This is the appeal of the attack on you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u39	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday, one of the speakers asked where we were going. I am very well aware that we Socialists will be asked this question more often and more persistently. I think the most important question today is not so much where we're going, but where we're going. Before me spoke respected MPs. They were defending these opposites, and I absolutely don't think they were babbling, as it was said here. But some of the arguments are false, the set-up of these limited arguments and thus raises an objection. Firstly, the statement that the Agreement we are discussing is necessary and will strengthen our security against the danger of the Islamic State is false, tendential, misleading and ultimately harmful to us not only because it makes us a target. This monstrous phenomenon can be neutralized by our powerful allies today. It is enough to end the financial flows by stopping smuggling and exporting oil. However, this is not done. Why? It is a geopolitical project. It's a lie that his creators are fighting a real fight with him. It is a delusion that the Agreement we are discussing will be a shield and security for Bulgaria. The second statement that a neighbouring country has provocative behaviour and unhealthy thoughts against Bulgaria cannot be accepted without criticism. This claim is launched to be an explanation, and even less justification, for the behaviour of some politicians towards this Agreement. If we are going to look for military money with this huge state of our allies, and our today's allies allow us to look for money between Bulgaria and Turkey, there is no explanation for the condition that our allies have set us to destroy the SS-20 missiles, which were our deterrent power against this country. These explanations are illogical and inappropriate. They serve to justify the behavior of some patriots. The third and fourth thesis expressed here yesterday that this Agreement prepares the development of events in Ukraine and aims, as foreign thoughts have been cited: the discipline of Russia. These are generally true reasonings, but they are a product of a short horizon and a limited view of the world's processes. They show how far things have come, but the question, as I said at the beginning, is where we are going step by step. Ladies and gentlemen, the bipolar model in which I have spent my conscious life has given up the place without a military world conflict to a single-polar world. Today it is undeniable that the one-pole world is in crisis, all turmoil and turbulence are the result of the crisis of the one-pole model of the world. One country has become the only factor. This country wants to preserve at all costs and by all means its only exceptional situation in the world. This country gradually makes NATO an instrument of its objectives, and the current TPT is preparing to be economic NATO in the world. In my opinion, there is no force to overcome the crisis of the one-pole model. Sooner or later, if the world survives, I repeat, if it survives, it will be multipolar. There is no power to prevent the multibillion-dollar population of Brazil, Argentina, India, China and a number of other countries, including Russia, from fighting to overcome the economic, military and other dictatorship imposed by the only factor in the world. Thus, as the ingenious German philosopher Hegel used to say, "All that exists is worthy to perish. " He'll give up his seat and the one-pole model. The question is Bulgaria, where will it be located to what is denied to be overcome, or in a more dignified position. I have made my own conclusion to myself and not to throw pieces into the fire, and to cool the temperature I will vote against this Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Here's a line, Mr. Toshev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, first of all, I would like to remind the House again that the talks, the negotiations, the actions you like to call them, by whatever terminology you want to define them, have started with Stanishev when he was Prime Minister and the treaty was signed when Prime Minister was Oresharski. Now we're doing something in the finals that needs to end after several years of negotiations. Secondly, in the Standing Committees, both in the Committee on Foreign Policy and in the Committee on Defence, only colleagues from the "Attack" voted against. You have voted for it, not even abstention! I regret that my colleague Angel Naydenov, who knows very well the topic and the question, is currently absent to sit down and talk about what is going on before we vote a sign thing about Bulgaria. This is not about infantry war machines, not about BTRs, not about tanks, but about several computers and several transmitters, it is. It is not about a command center, nor a base, nor a brigade, but about a communication information center, and it is a module from it, as my colleagues tell me. Dear colleague, since I am making a line to you, bear in mind that this is not about the United States, but about Europe, Shape, command is in Mons, Belgium, and it has nothing to do with the United States. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like you to answer me about these schizophrenic behaviors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u43	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman! Some ancient philosophers have said that a statement speaks more of the one who does it than of the one who does it. I thank you for not describing my talk as babbling, and this about schizophrenicity, take it somewhere else. I rather quoted you as saying that it's important where we're going, but we have to be blind and stupid so we don't understand one step at a time where we're going. Since you are talking about Europe, I would like to quote only a few words from the world famous George Friedman to the president's advisor, to the senators, who says: "The United States have no relations with Europe. We have relations with Romania, with France and so on. There is no Europe with which we have relations. And it goes on: "We have dominance over the world, and with that we will hold the power." I do not want to be naive and listen to what and when Angel Naydenov said or what and when Sergei Stanishev negotiated 10 years ago. I have said my reasons to vote against. You vote as you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u45	Thank you. To speak, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the ratification of this Agreement. My fellow Members, I have taken the trouble to make a retrospective of all the votes in this direction and in fact the practice shows that the DPS is the most consistent in terms of its actions and policy party with regard to the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria. The first serious debate, honourable Members, "for" and "against" NATO took place in April 1998 regarding events in Kosovo when an air corridor for NATO forces was to be allowed. Then there is a very fundamental statement by our leader Mr. Ahmed Dogan, who then raises the question of Bulgaria's membership in NATO Dear colleagues, for this corridor then from the Bulgarian National Assembly voted 151 people. I think that if our Parliament is now full, those who voted in this direction for this Agreement will be much more. That still shows positive evolution for the time we've been going on. However, let us return to the specific case today. My fellow Members, why should we support this Agreement? First, it is clearly and categorically for the benefit of Bulgarian national security. This is about a communication centre, honourable Members, which will enable clear and clear communication and the Bulgarian Armed Forces with their NATO partners. Dear colleagues, why do we normally have such a strong position regarding the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria? I will try to put some questions here, which we, as politicians and responsible people, should answer. First, is Bulgaria able to guarantee its own national security at this stage? Absolutely not. Neither do we have financial potential, nor do we have the potential of the Armed Forces. We have no opportunity to guarantee our own national security. It's said that colleagues offer neutrality. What does "neutrality" mean, colleagues? Neutrality means inactivity, doing nothing. Not doing anything is actually the worst thing we would do as the country's highest institution for the protection of Bulgarian citizens in the face of extremely serious asymmetric threats which can actually be neutralized only by collective efforts in the NATO system. My fellow Members, there is another extremely important point that we must also emphasise and it is our position to be loyal members of NATO and fully integrate into this system does not mean that we must be against someone, in this case against Russia. On the contrary, on the basis of our national status, which we have, our status in the system since the past, we must do everything possible for NATO and Russia to never come to a direct conflict. Trust me, that's never gonna happen. Everything that is being commented at the moment about an inevitable military conflict between Russia and NATO will not happen! I believe that there is a sufficient degree of responsibility on both sides to prevent such a direct military conflict, because this, my fellow Members, means an end to the world, to the present civilized world. That's not going to happen in any way. Including yesterday in the debate, it was said that we should not be for someone, or against someone, but for the Bulgarian national security. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, except NATO, we have no one to guarantee it. And in the name of our children and grandchildren, of the future generations of Bulgarian citizens, we must do everything possible to make Bulgaria a quality, full and well integrated member of the NATO system and to benefit from this membership. Our understanding, ladies and gentlemen, and what our President Mr. Lutvi Mestan has repeatedly said from this platform: for us NATO is a complex system not only in terms of military security, but also in terms of value, because for us security in the defence system means security in the system of the economy, social security; security that will enable us in conditions of democracy the Bulgarian nation to be united, indivisible and Bulgaria to be a prosperous state with a stable economy. Dear colleagues, without security there is no investment, no economy, no development of our country. It's the only way we can get our children back from abroad, get them to come live and invest here, and stay with their parents. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the House, NATO has no alternative for us to this is our political understanding, it is also our responsibility. We must do everything we can, I say again, by supporting NATO's defence strategy, that is what I would like to emphasise, NATO has a specific Defence Strategy! There is no case of NATO having offensive functions. [[Laughter at Ataka.]] Yeah, yeah, that's right. Except where threats are guaranteed, gentlemen. That's right. We believe that what we have to vote on today will benefit the national security of the country, will definitely contribute to it, to the quality, functions and objectives of the Bulgarian armed forces. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we call on each of you to support this Agreement because it is beneficial for Bulgaria, for future generations of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Even when we have to justify decisions and proposals that we don't like, we shouldn't leave solid logic! How do we explain to the Bulgarian citizens who are looking at us, the thesis that in the vicinity of Sofia we have nothing that represents much, but guarantees us national security?! This came out of Mr. Yankov's statement and in general from the spirit here. So we have nothing, some small thing we have, but if we don't place it, Bulgaria becomes the target of foreign, external factors for the country. And the second question: what external factors, honourable Members? But Bulgaria is surrounded by security! The largest ally of the United States is our ally, the Republic of Turkey, right here, 500 km away, armed to the teeth! Our ally! What are our concerns? I don't understand. Are the Allies going to attack us? What's this about? Look, there is no doubt why this military structure is being built to ensure the offensive and deployment of NATO attacking compounds on the territory of Bulgaria! That's what I'm talking about! And it's not a communication center, it's a link in the language of the army! [[GERB's line.]] Okay, communication, whatever. Does Bulgaria become a target? Well, it's turning her! What security guarantees? From what do we guarantee security? It doesn't make any sense! And it is no coincidence today that the House is half empty because our parliament today is in the footsteps of a former head of state, who announced the strategy of descent. So here's what the downsizing is about. [[It points to the parliamentary groups of DPS and GERB. Noise and lines.]] A lowdown, dear colleagues, a lowdown! [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] Get down, get down bravely in the footsteps of Comrade Zhivkov! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u49	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, the centre that will be located contains only communication systems. Communication systems do not pose a direct, direct threat to anyone. This is an opportunity for communication between the various NATO systems and forces in conditions when necessary. It is difficult for me, based on what sounds on the left-hand side, to draw concrete conclusions, because it is quite controversial. On the one hand, we have a behavior... by the way, if you remember, thanks to the behaviour of the foreign minister then we had very serious contradictions whether it should be acted this way in Ukraine or not. Now it's the exact opposite. When is the truth? Dear colleagues, let us be more serious, because ultimately what national security needs most is stability. Stability means political consensus, means long-term strategy, means clear vision. With such conjunctural statements, actions, behavior, we cannot earn anyone's trust. When we were members of the Warsaw Treaty, Bulgaria had much more systems that were much more serious object for attack and threat to someone. Now if anyone thinks that three tanks in the United States and four planes can scare Russia, it's very false. There is no such element. Ladies and gentlemen, military training, military engagements and the achievement of the objectives of our armed forces is something that inevitably and clearly relates to our national security. It's not a threat to anyone! It is an investment in the security potential of Bulgaria, which should be used if necessary. This is the real situation, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. [[Replication by National Representative Danail Kirilov: "Procedure!."]] Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask you to allow a procedure to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the joint report concerning the two bills amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Please extend the extension by seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov, but I have not yet announced the joint reports, from which time the deadlines are running. So I'm gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u54	The PPC has been running since last week and today it's leaking, so I want an extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u55	And then the others?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u56	According to the GPC, now if you announce it, it will start running now, but from the announcement I will ask for an extension as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u57	I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to extend the deadline for proposals of the MPs between the first and second reading of the IDC. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Gazhev had declared a wish to speak after him.. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! For a moment, I was glad that the debate had returned to the essence of ratification, but I was later disappointed. In between, our country's Euro-Atlantic affiliation is an irreversible process, and should not be a topic of debate at all. That is why the attitude of the Bulgarian citizens themselves, 70% of whom support the Euro-Atlantic membership of the country, but I would still like to return: what is the agreement that is subject to our attention? It is about building infrastructure and basic support of a Bulgarian communication module, with capabilities to recover, as part of NATO's second communications battalion. The composition of this battalion also includes two modules from the US, two modules from Italy, one from Romania, and our Bulgarian. The battalion headquarters itself is located in Italy. So it is not at all about the deployment of any foreign troops or elements in Bulgarian territory. The module in question, which is currently located in Gorna Malina, exists to this day and participates in a number of exercises, trainings at both Bulgarian and international level. The essence of the Agreement in question is that the High Command of the NATO United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) through the NATO Security Investment Programme is committed to building the infrastructure and equiping the communication module in question with modern and modern equipment. The Bulgarian side agrees to maintain the costs subsequently, which are purely current, and the salaries of the servicemen who are Bulgarian citizens. However, it is about two Bulgarian officers and 55 soldiers and sergeants from the Bulgarian Army, but it is still good to know the history of the process, because this is still an example of continuity in defence policy not one, two, but four governments. The process itself began in 2009, when the decision was taken to deploy this communication module in Bulgaria, and by Decision of 29 August 2012 it was approved to be implemented on the basis of this Investment Programme, which I have just mentioned. It is also appropriate to say that the agreement itself, which is our attention today, was signed by the Bulgarian side by Decision of the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2014, i.e. by the government of Mr Oresharski, on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers of 18 September 2013, and it is appropriate in this regard to thank the actions of the previous government for having done its job and proved that Bulgaria is a loyal ally. It is also nice, in a period of reduced national defence costs, as in recent years, to seek additional funding for projects for modernisation and re-arming of the army at the same time through NATO funds, as is the case. This represents an additional financial resource for building our defense capabilities and has nothing to do with insinuations from some of the previous speakers that Bulgaria is almost preparing for war. Once again, we are talking about a Bulgarian communication module in which two officers and 55 sergeants and soldiers will serve, but its construction will be done, in simple terms, with NATO funds, and we are taking over the maintenance. And here I must congratulate all the parliaments groups who have spoken their support to the Agreement. After all, they support the construction of the country's modern defence capabilities, and I hope that this position will be shared by the other parliamentary groups, or at least by those who have some sense of statehood. Some people have also mentioned before me about Slovakia and how Slovakia did not allow NATO facilities to be built. After all, several months ago, Slovakia itself declared that it wants to build a communication module on its territory and thus will be part of all these communication modules that are being built on the territory of NATO's Eastern flank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u59	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! There's lines, there's speeches that can't be undone. A short time ago, a left-wing MP called us, "Don't follow Todor Zhivkov!" That's exactly what we're doing, guys. It is Todor Zhivkov that we do not follow, and that is why we make these decisions. The same MP a few days ago urged BSP to break up with oligarchy. What did he mean by that? Perhaps he meant to stop demagogy, in the sense of voting for NATO, because BSP voted once upon a time for entry into NATO, and now opposes any decision resulting from entry into the Alliance. In fact, European Socialists have long firmly chosen NATO, and Soviet Socialists have never accepted and cannot accept membership in the Union, which is why this is about. And BSP is at this crossroads between European and Soviet socialism. And as the solution gets harder and harder, demagogy gets bigger and bigger. BSP has continued to be at this crossroads for 20 years and has often voted for NATO, but by looking at their speeches, they are in the direction of Soviet socialism. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that you of this tribune must show that you are more Soviet Socialists than the other left-wing party in parliament. We see this race. Take him away, your business! Have a good time, just please, you've taken too much parliamentary time and you have no arguments to the point. This is about technical matters, not about the deployment of huge bases, but mainly about technology, as it became clear, so I propose that we end this debate. They've been said, we've heard... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I call on you, I do not make such a procedural proposal, we are against such procedural proposals. Everything has been said, everything has been heard, only that, honourable Members, we cannot help you with your internal choice. Whether you can become European Socialists or remain Soviet Socialists is your problem, not ours. You have to make this decision for yourself. We have made our decision and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u61	- What's the line? Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u62	Mr. Dimitrov, no BSP Bulgaria is at a crossroads. And if you haven't heard from him wherever you go, and that's the case for 1,300 years, you're very mistaken. At a great crossroads is Bulgaria! In the middle of the Midwest, where several religions and several civilizations collided. And if anyone wants to set an example of state-of-the-art behavior, it's not to put on a helmet without being in the barracks and give a press conference here from the stands. Before you put on your helmets and gas masks...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u63	Colleagues, yesterday we cleared up the issue of the barracks. Give it to me now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u64	No, no! How can we be? This is about the barracks! So about the gentleman who spoke here before, first of all, to learn the regulations of the Bulgarian Army and then to explain what should be done with security, right? To have some order in the development, I suggest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u65	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u66	Ladies and gentlemen! I heard two speeches from the same colleague who called on BSP to break his ties to oligarchy and listen carefully to him to understand...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u67	Mr. Dimitrov, please, on the subject! The bill is for ratification. Let's not serve the BSP convention. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u68	It's on the subject, it's on the subject. And you know, if breaking up with oligarchy is breaking up with the past for BSP, take this bill. Show that you are a European power. You have a president of the European Socialists. Show that, like European Socialists in France, Germany, across the European Union, NATO has chosen that you can do it too. Show that you are already European Socialists! Break up with the past and support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u69	To speak, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! I hoped that this Ratification would go more peacefully and would not enter into such difficult debates because Bulgaria has long made its civilisational choice and it is the Euro-Atlantic Pact and the European Union. And taking me back 25 years is pretty ridiculous. As one man who served in the barracks and was a junior sergeant, not an officer, because officers were some other people. [[BSP LB.]] In Pleven, some other people served in the S.H.I.E.L.D., we were just ordinary junior sergeants. Why am I telling you this? I'm telling you this, Mr. Gechev, because I remember very well in 1980, when the movements in Poland took place, how we were gathered on the platform and almost prepared to intervene as in the Czech Republic in 1968. I am telling you because I do not want to go back to the Warsaw Treaty because our civilisational choice has long been made and because society strongly supports our membership in NATO and our membership in the European Union. If anyone now wants to reverse the ship after a quarter of a century, I am telling you that this is counterproductive for the political forces that would like to do so. I think Bulgaria has made a really important decision and the guarantees for our national security are only through our NATO membership. As far as the specific ratification is concerned, of course, that the Reformation bloc will vote for the EU, as well as all the similar commitments that Bulgaria should have in connection with our membership in the Alliance. For us, the national interest can only be realised through our participation in the North Atlantic Pact, through our participation in the European Union and through the guarantees of our sovereignty and the protection of our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. The debate is closed. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka, I propose a roll call on this point. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u73	No vote has been announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u74	A roll call vote. Sorry for the mistake!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u75	This proposal will be put to the vote, but there is an opportunity for the other parliamentary groups to state a position on it. Are there any MPs who speak back on behalf of a parliamentary group? [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Who's that? I don't see any raised hand. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] You? You talk, and you don't say what you want. Here you go. I'm reminding you of the article. 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, motion for a vote under art. 63, p. 3 Getting up from a place of roll call in alphabetical order, responding with a...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I take it it was done on behalf of the parliamentary group. He is listening to one MP from a parliamentary group that disagrees with the proposal, and we are currently in this part of the procedure. We're listening, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a counteroffer. I think we should vote on this with the electronic system that is built [[noise and lines]] Because this isn't about being NATO members or not. We are voting here for ratification of an Agreement, which is technical, and it is a communication module, it is not about our membership. It's a normal standard procedure. We are members of NATO and we must fulfil our allied obligations, and this Centre increases the opportunities of our communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u77	You've come to the point. We understand your point. Thank you. From other parliamentary groups? There are no requests for a reverse opinion. I put to the vote the proposal of the Party of Ataka to hold the vote clearly on this. 3 Getting up from a place of roll call in alphabetical order and responding with a...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the offer, isn't it? [[Heckling]] We vote, fellow Members. They voted 142 MPs: 27, against 83, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Maintenance of the garrison between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe on the Base Maintenance of the CIS Module with Revolving Capabilities, the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion. They voted 145 MPs: 118, against 22, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. What's going on, Mr. Toshev? You're confused?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u78	We don't know who went wrong, Madam President, but there are some people in our group who couldn't vote, and I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u79	It's a re-vote. They voted 146 MPs: 120, against 21, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mihov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Defence Committee proposes that the draft be adopted in a second vote. [[Voices: "Eeeeee!" by "Attack" and partial applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u81	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u82	My fellow Members, I am making a reverse procedural proposal. We of the Attack Party are against this. First, there is an advisory council with the President. Let him pass and then we'll discuss it. The president is living as some sort of unifying nation and some consolidated opinion, if possible, can be achieved there. Secondly, this emphasis that you state, this haste, I said it in my speech, and it is counterproductive. This is not useful for Bulgaria at the moment. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's This haste only shows the order that has been given, and you are performing it very well right now. Of course we're against it. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] We use this procedure when we vote, because I know that you will now also vote at second reading. I am making a procedural suggestion that everyone in the area should stand up and give their opinion on this issue. Here you state how firm there is, how much you support this. Well, get up and tell them to take a picture of you so your constituents can see you. ♪ For, against, against, against, against, Don't get down. Come out and say it! Stand with your face, stand up and say it. This is the proposal I make by roll call vote! [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. The terms of our Rules of Procedure, which should be in place to allow such a procedure for a simultaneous vote in a plenary sitting at first and second reading, are clearly stated: in cases where there is no stated intention of proposals between first and second readings. These were not made during the debate yesterday and today. As regards the considerations for the forthcoming National Security Advisory Council, they are irrelevant to the specific procedure, which is why I am voting on Mr. Mihov's proposal for a simultaneous vote on two readings in today's plenary session of this Bill. Please vote. Vote 149 MPs: for 123, against 25, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! We would like to ask you to vote again, as former President Georgi Parvanov urged the Advisory Council to gather with the President to discuss the issue. Let's give him time. The ABB colleagues were absent from the House during the vote. We propose to give time to assemble the Advisory Council with the President. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u85	Colleagues, re-vote. Vote 148 MPs: 119 against 29 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u86	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Base Maintenance of the DCM, the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB) The Commission supports the text of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u87	The Defence Committee has no way of supporting it since we just voted on it. I told you the report was incorrect. Please report the draft Import Act, Mr. Mihov. Read the full law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u88	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Basic Maintenance of the CIS Module with Revival Capabilities (DCM), the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB) A single member. He certified the Garrison Maintenance Agreement (GSA) between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the Base Maintenance of the CIS Module with Revival Capabilities (DCM), the 2nd NATO Contact Battalion (2NSB), signed on 16 July 2014 and 28 August 2014 in Mons, Belgium.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u89	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Are there any MPs willing to speak? I won't. I put to the second vote the ratification bill. Please vote. They voted 146 MPs: 120, against 20, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: LAW FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED AMERICAN STATES FOR THE IMPROVING THE CONVERSATION OF THE TAXAL LEGISLATION IN INTERNATIONAL ASPECT AND THE APPECTION IN THE ACTION OF FATSA. A report has been submitted by the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Stoyanova will introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u90	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the Improvement of Compliance with International Tax Law and the Implementation of FATSA, No 502-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. At a meeting held on 5 March 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the improvement of international tax legislation and the implementation of FATSA, No 502-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. The meeting was attended by Vezy Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance, Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, Iskra Slavcheva, Director of the SIDDO Directorate in the NRA. The bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir. On February 23, 2007, in Washington, there was an agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America to avoid double taxation and prevent income tax evasion. According to art. 25 of the Agreement allows the exchange of information for tax purposes, including on an automatic basis. So far, no automatic exchange of financial information has been carried out between the two countries. Apart from that, the United States of America has introduced provisions that have acquired popularity as an act of compliance with tax legislation in relation to overseas accounts (FATSA). This act aims to build a global system for automatic exchange of information between the tax administrations of the participating countries, as well as to provide information to all financial institutions about all accounts of US taxpayers and foreign companies controlled by US taxpayers. An Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America was signed in Sofia on 5 December 2014 to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA. By the Agreement, the two Parties shall agree on: - indication and content of the terms used in the Agreement; - obligations to collect and exchange information in respect of American accounts for which information is provided; - time and means of exchange of information; - consistency in the application of FATCA to partner jurisdictions; - consultations and amendments; - the term of the Agreement. The chosen approach of the two governments to implement FATCA is aimed at overcoming the legal obstacles resulting from our internal legislation and reducing the burden on the Bulgarian financial institutions. Skewing the Agreement would improve the situation of the Bulgarian financial institutions because they would not pay 30% tax on incomes and payments with a source of the US, would not enter into direct negotiations with the US tax authorities, would be treated equally with regard to the disclosure of bank secrecy and personal data, would have certain advantages; would deepen administrative cooperation between the two countries and significantly contributed to banking and tax transparency internationally. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the so-called Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: With 11 votes in favour, 3 votes against and without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA, No 502-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will be relatively laconic. Firstly, what the United States offers for tax transparency is wonderful. This is a wonderful initiative by the United States, which has been initiated in Europe in recent years. Such procedures shall also be carried out by the European Union. As a member of the European Union, as a member of the United Nations, as a country that needs to work for more transparency, we not only have to, we have to participate in this process. But! Honourable colleagues, over 125 countries have concluded a contract with the United States of America................................................................................................... and these contracts,................ are bilateral................................................................................................................................ It is not accurate that it is an international agreement, as it is a bilateral agreement. The tragedy for the Republic of Bulgaria under this treaty is that this bilateral agreement has only unilateral commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria, such as the crocodile islands of the Cayman Islands, and not even like Azerbaijan, Georgia, Armenia, Tunisia and other knowledgeable African, Latin American and Asian countries. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Bulgaria is the only country from the former Eastern bloc, the former socialist country, the only one who has the nerve to offer to assume responsibilities under an alleged bilateral agreement in which we only have an obligation. And the agreement you discussed just now, come on, that's enough! Our motherland only takes responsibility for her friends, supposedly in quotes. It's just an obligation! We are transferring strategic projects to Greece and Turkey, now we are being kicked in Budapest, the Republic of Bulgaria. Is that right? We're not there! Why? Because our partners from the European Union and NATO are punishing us for failing the project. Stop making unilateral commitments that are humiliating to the Bulgarian people! It is a great proposal in principle, but we are committed to informing the United States of America with expenses to the Bulgarian taxpayers because these are dozens of employees who need to systematise this information, to show the United States which American citizens and companies are lying to them and not paying taxes. That's great. And why won't the Bulgarian government know who exported Bulgaria's money abroad? It's about transparency, isn't it? We're against oligarchy.! Why does the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister not want us to collect the money from accounts in the United States of America illegally exported? Why don't we want transparency? Why would we only continue to make expenditures for the Republic of Bulgaria, to do services for other countries? It is humiliating for the Republic of Bulgaria to sign such a contract! It is humiliating for us MPs to agree to hide the money exported to the Bulgarian people in the United States. So dirty money in the States is welcome there. Is that the double standard? That's the double standard. They will collect their money from Bulgaria, but Bulgaria will not. The dirty money stays in the American economy. Then what comes out in practice? A pat on the shoulder while we lose billions of projects. Bravo! And now no financial benefit for the Republic of Bulgaria of this Agreement. We will not return anything, therefore children, brothers, sisters, relatives of Bulgarian politicians who have stolen during this period will be on the fork in the United States because they are on the computers of their institutions. They will manage Bulgaria from a distance because they keep their accounts, they shine on many monitors there. We don't want to know who these people are. In addition, the United States government has also humiliated our current government. [[Reply.]] It doesn't matter, it is a Bulgarian government, it is currently of a certain configuration. They treat the current Bulgarian government worse than Armenia, Azerbaijan, Tunisia and the Ivory Coast. They say they don't trust our government. They say, "Your government should mind your own business." However, the government is not only yours, it is also our government of the Bulgarian people. In a word, this will be a unique case in the history of the Republic of Bulgaria to sign agreements where it only makes commitments, does not pay back any money from the United States. And if you're voting for it, you're for what? For opaqueness and for the whole people it will be clear that you hide the dirty money from Bulgaria in the United States. As MPs, we must vote strongly against, honourable Members, out of respect for our country and in the interest of the fisca of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were up for an agreement with Russia, here the right hand would fall into amok. Today they're silent, shrunk like little pigs, sitting in the corner. [[Elevator bell dings]] You're listening to each other like goopers and you don't say anything. You're not saying anything about how you're treating this obviously non-reciprocal agreement? Or what you're saying is, if he's with the United States, it's a good deal. The Soviet elephant is a bigger friend of the Bulgarian elephant, isn't it? Otherwise, if he's with another country, it's a bad agreement. [[Relations from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u95	This is a statement, follow the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u96	How does this fit into the famous Euro-Atlantic values that you usually offer to Bulgarian citizens at bedtime and at getting up, when are they warmer, when are they frozen? Why are you silent? You've smuggled what obviously there is no other country in Europe. Second question. Dear MPs, usually Europe in talks with such large countries as the United States, China, Russia introduces the same parameters or trying to keep the same parameters in these treaties. What requires Bulgaria to come out of the common practice of concluding such treaties of the countries of the European Union? Because this is the most typical example, the most typical example of a servant, mutt. [[Applause from BSP LB]] I can say more words to you, understanding national sovereignty and national policy. I have no idea why you're so quiet, why would you support this without any relevance?! Actually, there is one explanation, the professor said it, I'll just repeat it to you. Obviously, you have people in the States whose accounts you don't want Bulgaria to get information about. There's no other explanation, because there's no other explanation for any of you. Who in the Bulgarian government, who in the Bulgarian Parliament, who has an account in the Bulgarian business that Bulgarian judicial authorities do not receive information from the US? I know that there are many Bulgarian corporations that put their money even in certain states, connected and Mr. Tsvetanov knows them because he was an interior minister. Why should Bulgaria not receive information about these accounts, which are about money acquired from crimes, from criminal activity? Why don't you want that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u97	We get that information, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u98	Obviously, you don't want this because most of what will today support this type of unbalanced agreement supports the interest of those people who don't want their U.S. accounts opened. Simple! You don't give any evidence in the opposite direction. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, when things were put on a rib, apparently the right side began to remain silent. Tell me what you have as an opinion on this bill! Is it good for Bulgaria, is it good for our financial system or not? Mr. Dimitrov, aren't you very active in defending both the legal order and the interests of the state? Now why are you silent? In connection with this agreement, I have another argument. Dear colleagues, we're looking for the money from KTB, aren't we? There's definitely a lot of them out there. [[Noise and lines.]] I know! But let's officially get information. Why don't you want us looking for where the money from KTB went? One more thing. Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I intend to submit a proposal for this Agreement to be limited by a certain period of time. It is obvious that the ruling majority intends to adopt this insane ratification law, but at least to limit it to a two-year period during which to see how it will work, and to have the opportunity in two years to at least put things on a reciprocal basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u101	One year it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u102	All right, let's do one. The colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria are right. We'll limit it to a one-year deadline to see how it starts to work and only then to have a clear position as a country, as an equal side.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u103	This can't be done by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u104	You can, you can, don't talk like that. It's okay! Furthermore, I would suggest that there is also a new paragraph to this bill in which to oblige the Council of Ministers to review all such agreements in a 10-year period and to see which of them we should review. Bulgaria cannot be humiliated, but at least by its partners who want to show that they are with us, but actually see us as some servants. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members, the matter is indeed very interesting and even more interesting for the people sitting on the right. I will confess to a committee I have not attended, but here, if possible in front of the Chamber, and colleagues from GERB who have attended, can explain a few things, because the report says that if we do not participate in it, access to the Bulgarian financial institutions and international financial markets will be significantly limited. As far as I can remember, we're not involved at the moment and our access is not restricted. About a month ago, we were issuing 3 billion. euros on international financial capital markets - that is right, Mr. Dimitrov, which were with emissions 7, 12 and so on and no one limited us. On the contrary, Bulgaria's rating was growing. Here it is written that the Agreement will be between two countries.. Bulgaria and the United States, but obviously the flow of information will not be between countries, but will be unilaterally. If we continue with the same spirit, the Bulgarian Parliament will adopt some agreements with which we can credit other countries, as it was December to pay the Germans 4 million. BGN, if we continue in the same way as in the act to support it unilaterally, only we to give information, not to receive, no wonder what the Greeks did with the law. 26%, to continue from all our other neighbours. Do you understand that we are helpful in bringing in the F: Let's be a good, correct partner, others are not good and correct partners to us? If we do not realize our geopolitical significance in general, we are condemned to continue in the same spirit. That's not a simple financial argument. Nowadays, in modern times, geopolitics plays a much more significant role and here are perceived including measures that are economic and financial, and there are certainly policies behind them, not economic or financial logic. Because economic and financial logic should ask us how many Bulgarian citizens there are with bills in the US and why is it not a bilateral process so that this information can be disclosed? How many Americans are in Bulgaria? Do the Americans think that we are almost, as the Greeks described us, a tax haven and that every deal here is for tax evasion and tax evasion? Because according to the legislation of Greece, what these 26 percent took, that was what it was obvious. Do Americans do it the same way now? Indeed, if it were an agreement with another country here in this Chamber, there would be an unheard howl on the right hand side, and there would be a whole range of people speaking from the stand. There won't be any at the moment. Perhaps I will stir up a line or a statement that will come to explain how favorable it is and how large our US partners are, which these same partners turn out to be 12th place in investment in Bulgaria, may even have gone further. It is with them that we will have to be correct, and they will not be correct with us. The other thing that is, non-participation in the act will really lead to damage to the prestige of the Bulgarian institutions. No, fellow MPs, not our non-participation! The behavior of the politicians, the government, the people who are in this room, they do. They're doing it! The lessons from the crisis 2008 The crisis was a product not only of the people who were in the financial circles, but also of the politicians, because politicians gave the mechanism to bankers to be able to use it. If Bush gets his second term, it's because he made strong promises: Every American with a home. That's where the problem of credit mortgages and so-called CDOs and CDS arose. There are fellow financiers who can explain in detail what this is about. Stop yelling, stop! You're not gonna get him anywhere! With calls: "Enough!" in the hall at all shows that you do not realize where we are purely geopolitically, what are the appetites of others towards us and that we enter only one service to others. If you think this is a dignified behavior for a Bulgarian MP, continue to confess it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America to improve compliance with international tax legislation and the implementation of FATCA, No 502-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 February 2015. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 73, against 23, abstention 6. The ratification bill was adopted in the first vote. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed project is extremely important for bilateral relations with the great state. Comrade Bojinov couldn't vote. I'm making a motion to re-vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u109	Re-vote, please. Vote 110 MPs: 74 against 26, abstention 10. The ratification bill was adopted at first reading. Mrs. Stoyanova for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal to vote on the Law at second reading, even though here on the left side they tried to make proposals. [[BSP LB]] In order to postpone the second reading, it is expected that proposals should be made. I think that you will deal with the Rules, they do not have the opportunity to change in substance. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u111	I'll try, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u112	What you have proposed is essentially part of the treaty that has been signed, which can only ratify it or not ratify it, but not make changes to it. Please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Article 84 of our Rules of Procedure states: The text of the Treaty cannot be amended under a bill for ratification of an international treaty. Reservations to a multilateral contract may be made only where they are eligible under the contract itself. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, it is not right to speculate, but there are young people on the balcony [[noise and lines to the right, shouts: "Eeeee! "]] , and be deceived... [[Sighs:.]] Ah, it is heard that there are also MPs from the right hand. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u115	What's your procedure, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u116	I just thought you had nothing to say today. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u117	What's your procedure, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u118	You must follow the rules, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u119	That's exactly what I intend to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u120	In the statement there is a request that proposals at second reading will be tabled and you cannot revoke this right. Explain it to Mrs. Stoyanova. And if it is forgiven any ignorance regarding the parliamentary rules, then you, as the head of the sitting and as the chair, should correct and not even allow the vote on this type of proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] He couldn't, he had a clear intention of proposing a second reading. Nobody wants to change the contract. The treaty is as your minister signed it, which is proposed for ratification by your government and which will be assessed by Bulgarian citizens, including the names of those who supported this humiliating treaty for Bulgaria. Some will understand it later, some understand it now, but they don't dare to speak. That's all any one of them has to do with it. Please do not allow Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposal. This is my procedure as contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and hence the violation of two readings in the Constitution, corresponding to the corresponding text, because otherwise the case is scandalous. We will not spare this scandal to the National Assembly. [[Sighs:..Oooh!.... on the right. Noise and lines.]] Even if it's before Easter. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]] Ah, you're here, you're here! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come [[Replys on the right. Claps by BSP LB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u121	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I'm gonna read Article one more time. 84 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: The text of the treaty cannot be amended under a bill for ratification of an international treaty. Reservations to a multilateral contract may be made only where they are eligible under the contract itself. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Announcements by BSP LB:.............................................................................................]] I'm putting the motion to the vote... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Blowjobs.]] I'll kick you out of the courtroom! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I'll kick you out of the gym! [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] In the manner of conduct, please. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I'm giving Mr. Mikov a warning. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u122	Do to Mr. Ivanov because he is constantly in charge of the front row. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Sit down! Mr. President, you must distinguish between a proposal on a bill for ratification of the Agreement and the Agreement itself. We neither can nor want to make a proposal on the content of the signed agreement. [[Replys from the right.]] However, it has been stated that the proposal will concern the ratification bill in which Parliament can submit certain additions. For this reason, you have no right to put forward today for a second reading of the Law on ratification on which there will be a proposal. Otherwise, we're going into a constitutional case again. I will no longer speak with arguments for the appropriateness of these actions. For this reason, I ask you to respect and reiterate that the intention of the MP has been stated to make a proposal under the ratification bill, which is in full right of the Members of the National Assembly and the National Assembly. And how they will deal with it is now a separate matter after the proposal has been made. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u123	I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Banging at banks. A line from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] We're in voting mode to allow it to go to the second... [[Loud noise and lines. Crashing banks.]] We are voting on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposal for admission of the Agreement until the second vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Announcements by BSP LB and "Attack": Resign! Resignation!........................................................................................... Crashing banks.]] Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 8, abstention 1. [[Strong noise and lines on the left. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u124	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is also in the manner of conduct. In fact, before the vote itself, it was extremely important to clarify which of the Members of the National Assembly were present in the Chamber. My procedure, which you did not allow before the vote itself and saw the reaction of my colleagues, was regarding the right of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria for a name check before the vote. I am proposing a roll call check, since you have not complied with the Staff Regulations, to give me the opportunity for a procedure before the vote itself, to do so at the moment. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u125	First we'll take 30 minutes off, then we'll continue with... [[Heckling]] No, the procedures are clear. [[Relations from BSP left Bulgaria.]] That's what my management colleagues informed me about. After the 12:00 break, we will continue, you will be granted your demands. During this time Mr. Glauchev will introduce you to the distribution in the management and composition of the friendship groups. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u126	Colleagues, please take our seats. The meeting is continuing. Mrs. Stoyanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u127	Madam President, I am taking this procedure to inform my colleagues that during the break we have consulted the protocol. One of the two proposals that the fellow Members on the left made is unacceptable because it concerns texts from the treaty itself and the plenary cannot make adjustments in this direction. However, their other proposal, although absolutely not relevant and in my opinion too controversial to be made in a ratification law, may have reason and would have given arguments to attack it. For this reason, Madam President, I will not report the Draft at second reading and I would ask the House to vote on a reduction of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings of three days in view of the Easter vacation starting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u128	In essence, you are proposing a procedure to make three days of the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes on the ratification bill. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the discussion Draft for ratification to be three days. They voted 111 MPs: 104 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the leading Committee on Environment and Water and the accompanying several committees. We're about to hear these reports. Mr. Ivanov, you'll have a replacement. Here you go. Before that, excuse two messages, because the debates will begin and there is no way to interrupt them. On 8 April 2015, he received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code adopted at the first vote on 25 March 2015. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote, which shall be until 27 April 2015 inclusive. On 8 April 2015, the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act adopted at the first vote on 8 April was adopted and distributed to the MPs. The project is prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This can't happen on the same day. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote, which shall be until 27 April 2015. On 8 April 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information on February 2015 on the following indexes of turnover in the Section of the R &amp; D, except for the trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles: "Index of industrial production" and "Index of construction production." The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Sorry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u129	Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I introduce you to the report, I propose a procedure under art. 46, para. 2 for admission in the hall of representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water: Boyko Malinov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u130	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 97 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u131	♪ I can't believe the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. At its regular meeting on 19 March 2015, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Water attended the meeting: Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Ivelina Vasileva, who stressed that the main purpose of the proposed changes is the transposition of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of the dangers of major accidents involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (Seveso III). Transponder and art. 30 of the directive on heavy fuel fuels, which are added to the list of "Petroll products' in Annex 3 of the EEA Agreement (the Environmental Protection Act), the requirements of which the Member States of the European Union have applied since 15 February 2014. By the provision of art. 30 of Seveso III The European Commission has launched infringement procedure under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. A new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a Programme for the Environment and Climate Action has been in force since 2014. The role of the national coordinate points is simplified and it is therefore necessary to update the text in the EEAI. The proposed amendments and additions to the EEA shall also aim to provide the necessary information on hazardous substances, identified risks and measures developed by the operator to prevent major accidents and limit their consequences by combining and coordinating the procedures for controlling major accidents with EIA procedures and complex authorisations (CR). The administrative procedure shall be optimized and the timing of the decision and the related reduction in investment costs shall be reduced. A more systematic approach to planning and carrying out control activities for the effective implementation of safety rules and ensuring wider access to public information, including the development of an electronic information system with a low-risk and high-risk enterprise database shall be introduced. The competence of the Minister of Environment and Water shall be determined when deciding on the need to carry out EIAs for investment proposals which fall within a territory controlled by two or more regional environmental and water inspections and the period of validity of the administrative environmental assessment acts to be determined by the competent environmental authority. A level playing field is also achieved for all administrative acts issued under Chapter 6 of the EEA Agreement, as well as for the achievement of full compliance of the EEAI with the responsibility for preventing and eliminating environmental damage with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on environmental liability in relation to the prevention and removal of environmental damage in the implementation of the recommendations of the European Commission. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Borislav Velikov, Chavdar Georgiev, Boris Yachev and Manol Genov, who asked questions about the need for some changes, terminology, risk assessment and severity for municipalities, received answers from Minister Ivelina Vasileva and Mrs. Paroleta Luleva. After the debates held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u132	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. We will now hear the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u133	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 25 March 2015, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Environment and Waters "Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister, Maria Galabova, Director of the "Preventive activity" department, Silvia Dimitrova "Department of Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Assessment," representatives of civil organizations. The bill was presented by Boyko Malinov. According to the proposed draft, two main objectives are achieved: the first is the synchronization of Bulgarian legislation with European Union law in relation to the transposition of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC. Repealed Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 implies a change to the Environmental Protection Act with up-to-date texts, in accordance with the new Regulation (EU) No 1293/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, concerning the system of submission of projects and proposals to the European Commission. Texts are reviewed in the Law on the achievement of full compliance of national provisions with Directive 2004/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental liability as regards the prevention and removal of environmental damage. The second objective concerns the implementation of Priority 15.4 of the Government's Programme for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria, 2014 The proposed changes provide for the reconciliation of major accident control procedures with environmental impact assessment procedures and ensuring coordination with the procedures for issuing and reviewing complex permits by changing the administrative regime. The existing authorisation regime by the Minister shall be replaced by a procedure for approving safety reports by the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency. The Transitional and Final Provisions make corresponding changes to the Law on Responsibility for the Prevention and Elimination of Environmental Damage and to the Law on Structure of the Area. The law provides for the Council of Ministers to adopt a regulation under art. 103, para. 9 within three months of its entry into force. The draft provides an opinion from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which strongly objects to the proposed way for the mandatory reconciliation of the environmental impact assessment procedure with the procedure for controlling major accident hazards, as this will make the investment process extremely difficult in the country and will in no way relieve investors of new installations and operators of existing ones. Such policy and changes would not lead to improvement of the investment climate in Bulgaria and to attracting new investments. The Bulgarian Industrial Association proposes to allow operators to assess themselves whether they would like to reconcile the assessments. It is necessary to define or to introduce quantitative and qualitative criteria of the concepts of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Mr. Zelenogorski is not in the room, but Mrs. Kotseva is here. She'll introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u135	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 19 March 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, experts from the Ministry of Environment and Water and representatives of civil organisations took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water. The proposed Bill transposes Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major accident hazards involving hazardous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC. The draft provides for the reconciliation of major accident control procedures with environmental impact assessment procedures (EIAs), and with the change of the administrative regime and the transfer of the safety approval procedure to the Executive Environment Agency, coordination shall also be ensured with the procedures for issuing and reviewing complex permits. The amendments to the Law ensure effective control over the deployment and operation of new enterprises/ equipment with low or high risk potential or planned changes/expansion in them and maintenance of safe distances to residential areas, public buildings and areas, recreational areas and, where possible, major transport routes and areas with particular environmental sensitivity. The bill also proposes optimizing the applicable administrative regimes in order to reduce the administrative burden and accelerate the investment process while maintaining a high level of environmental and human health protection. The periods of validity of the environmental assessment administrative acts to be determined by the competent environmental authority shall also be laid down, achieving a level playing field for all administrative acts issued in accordance with Chapter 6 of the EEA Agreement. The transitional and final provisions were also amended by the Law on Construction of the Area, which are directly related to the changes proposed in the Law on Environmental Protection. In the course of the discussion, the Members of the National Assembly supported the need to adopt the proposed changes, as in their main part they are directly related to bringing the provisions of the Law into line with EU law in this area. The Commission presented an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing the principled support of the Bill. Proposals were also made for the clarification of individual provisions relating to the powers of municipalities in implementing external emergency plans with a view to improving the interaction between the mayors of municipalities and the territorial units of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, which were supported by the MPs who spoke. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u136	Thank you. Following the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u137	"COMMODITY" the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. At its meeting held on 25 March 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. The following representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water took part in the meeting of the Commission: Mr. Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister of Environment, Ms. Maria Galabova, Director of the Directorate of Preventive Activity, Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Head of the Department of Environmental Impact Assessment and EC and Mrs. Sylvia Rangelova. I. This Bill aims to introduce into our national legislation the provisions of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (Seveso III). The bill aims and transposition of art. 30 of Directive 2012/18/EU "Treaty fuels' which are added to the list of petroleum products in Annex 3 to the Environmental Protection Act. The requirements of art. 30 should apply from all Member States of the European Union from 15 February 2014. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that according to the provision of art. 30 of Seveso III The European Commission has launched against Bulgaria infringement procedure No 2014/0232 under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. II. The draft law suggests that the text of the existing EEA Agreement on Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 should be amended with a new current text. The amendment concerns the new Regulation (EU) No 1293/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013. The amendments made to Chapter Six and Seventh, Section I of the Environmental Protection Act, propose the association of procedures for control of major accidents with environmental impact assessment procedures. In addition, the change in the administrative regime aims at consistency of complex permits. III. The bill provides for full compliance with the provision of art. 3, § 3 of Directive 2001/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment. Last but not least, in relation to environmental liability as regards the prevention and removal of environmental damage, in the implementation of the European Commission's recommendations, the draft law aims to achieve full compliance of national provisions with Directive 2004/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 16 votes to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, No 502-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Debates are open. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u139	Honourable Members, the proposed Draft achieves a full transposition of European legislation and amends and complements the Law on the Protection of the Environment under European Directives and Regulations. This makes it an indisputably important and necessary act, even more so, it aims to meet the European Commission's requirement for full transposition of Directive Seveso III and to end the launch of a criminal procedure for Bulgaria. We support the proposed texts which reduce the administrative burden for business on environmental impact assessment procedures, for control of major accidents, for issuing complex permits and others. Here I am surprised at the position Mr. Kanev presented by the Economic Commission. I definitely believe that the administrative burden is being reduced, but perhaps in a dialogue regime between first and second readings will be clarified, but I believe that this is the right step and based on the experience that I personally have. The Bill provides, on the one hand, for the reconciliation of major accident control procedures with environmental impact assessment procedures. On the other hand, coordination between the procedures for approving safety reports, the procedures for issuing and reviewing complex permits shall be ensured. This is extremely important because, on the one hand, reduces the administrative burden and, on the other, saves the investor the cost of preparing two documentation. And last but not least, it saves time. If the proposed change for the unification of EIA and the court procedure is supported and implemented, this will result in minimization of the risks for the investor to obtain permission under one procedure and on the other Here in a good coordination I think you have answered and will help the business. By transferring the procedure for approving the reports, in general, all coordination with the transfer to the Executive Environment Agency, I also believe that it will contribute to the same team considering all procedures. The compatibility and coordination of major accident control procedures with EIA and protection complexity procedures will lead to the practical provision of the necessary information on hazardous substances, identified risks and measures developed to the operator to prevent major accidents and limit their effects, both at the initial level, namely the EIA procedure, the environmental impact assessment and at the next level, namely the complex authorisation procedure. It is also proposed to regulate the validity periods of the environmental assessment administrative acts to be determined by the competent environmental authority. So far, such validity has been introduced for the other acts issued under this law and only for environmental assessments is not foreseen and I believe that this is a step forward in the positive direction. I believe that the approach by the Ministry of Environment and Water is correct to achieve a level playing field for all administrative acts issued under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act. For these reasons, we will support the submitted Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, leaving in a dialogue regime to hear the business's considerations as well. But I once again confirm that this is the right direction in which legislation needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Veliv!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I think we can safely support the bill in the first vote. I would just like to say a few words that we actually have a transposition of a European directive here related to the control of the danger of major accidents with dangerous substances. To remind colleagues that this directive is sometimes called Seveso III. This brings us to the memory of the distant 1976, when many of the MPs in this Chamber were not even born, but then there was a major accident near an Italian town.. a pharmaceutical plant exploded and many dioxins were separated into the environment. It is unfortunate that dioxins have a long-term impact on the body, including on the thyroid gland, things that now with the changes that we will adopt today, will be able to be controlled to a much greater extent. I call on my fellow Members to support them. We from the Reformation Block will do it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u142	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed bill has both positive and some legislative regulation proposals that raise certain doubts about their effectiveness and appropriateness. As for the fact that we need to transpose and adopt in our law the provisions of European law, we from BSP left Bulgaria are.................... and in this part we support the amendments. However, the proposed serious changes to the law relating to the fact that the Minister of Environment and Water will no longer be the competent authority responsible for issuing authorisations for major industrial accidents and related risks are not appropriate and appropriate in our view. What do I mean? For all other procedures, the Minister of the Environment will remain under certain hypotheses a competent authority, and for this hypothesis, which is related to the greatest risks to the environment and, respectively, to human health, it somehow desecrates itself and runs away from responsibility. In addition, it is proposed to combine the environmental impact assessment procedures and the issue of the permit under art. 104 and the next members. I don't think that's appropriate either. The procedures for issuing a complex permit and the permit relating to the risks of industrial accidents could be combined, not two procedures for which the Member of the National Assembly referred to before me also clarified that this is inappropriate. Due to these unsuccessful authorisations offered as a philosophy related to the desecration of the Minister and to the inadequate combination of different procedures, when examining the Bill in the Committee on Environment and Water, we abstained. I declare that we will try to submit the necessary proposals between first and second readings so that the Law becomes more effective and appropriate and meets its objectives and regulatory functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u144	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Colleagues, lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Council of Ministers, as I have already said before, is related to changes in several guidelines. The proposed amendments by transposition of European norms will achieve complex compliance of our national legislation with European legislation, in particular with European directives. This was discussed in the relevant committees. The new Draft Law provides for more optimal and effective forms of control through stricter provisions concerning control of possible larger accidents, which will immediately correspond to environmental impact assessment procedures. The Law also provides for adaptation of the criteria for classification of undertakings or facilities with lower or higher risk potential, as well as for wider public awareness and accessibility of information concerning the relevant procedures, which is a very good approach. We should also note the desire to share responsibility between the relevant state and local authorities for the effective implementation of the rules on the safety of the population and the relevant preventive measures in their defence. As a positive measure and a step, we appreciate the optimization of the administrative procedure by changing the current regime for the approval of the so-called Essential and important are the amendments which concern the absence of a procedure to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment for a number of active sites in the settlements, as well as a number of administrative proposals. The timing of the submission of applications for approval of safety reports which directly and indirectly support businesses and economic operators is reduced by avoiding cumbersome administrative procedures and the corresponding burdens for them. With these motives, the Patriotic Front will support the Bill at first reading. Of course, as has been mentioned in the Standing Committees, and also here, we also have some small remarks and considerations relating to the mechanical transfer of certain technical terms and words from other laws and regulations that do not correspond to the pursuit of modern expression of terms and concepts. As has already been mentioned, last but not least are the increased commitments of local authorities in the face of mayors of municipalities. These mayors' commitments in relation to the Law are definitely related to additional costs. If large municipalities are likely to have such a financial opportunity, it will indeed be much more difficult for small municipalities. It is appropriate for the State to find those necessary financial instruments, the necessary optimal approach for additional financial assistance where there is a need and need in order for the amendment of the Law to be not only lawful but appropriate, effective and for the public benefit. Once again: the Patriotic Front will support the Bill as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 502 "01 "18," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015. Vote 91 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 12. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the last item on our agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKETS OF FINANCIAL SERVICES. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The law was adopted at the first vote on 19 February 2015. The report from the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to her member Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will first make a proposal for admission to the Hall of Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets, Mr. Vladimir Savov, Member of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mrs. Valentina Stefanova, Head of the Department of Metodology and Complaints.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u148	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Nikolov. Vote 81 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 10. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u149	On 21 January 2015, a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act, No 502-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2015, adopted at the first vote on 19 February 2015. The Law on Markets in Financial Instruments is amended and supplemented by the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u150	There was a desire for procedure. Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u151	Mr. Glauchev, before the break, I made a procedural proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group for a roll call. Please do a roll call check before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u152	Please give the list of names. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Methodiev - here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - absent Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here There's a quorum. We can move on. I put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. They voted 113 MPs: 98, none, abstention 15. The text of the importer for the name of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u153	By § 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u154	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the importer's texts for paragraphs 1 to 5 including those supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 89, none, abstention 14. Paragraphs 1 to 5 including by importer have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u155	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Dimitrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is Art. 10a. The Vice-President shall review the rules, strategies, processes and mechanisms introduced by the investment firm under that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts, taking into account the technical criteria for supervisory review and evaluation, and shall assess the risks to which the investment firm is exposed or triggers the activity of the investment firm. The order, method and technical criteria for carrying out the review and evaluation shall be determined by a decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u156	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 6 as presented to you by the rapporteur. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u157	Vote 87 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u158	In paragraphs 7 to 12, including the Commission, shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u159	Statements? I won't. We vote enbloc paragraphs 7 to 12 inclusive. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u160	Under Paragraph 13, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 4 after the words 32, para. 1 and 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act 2. In para. 2: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the investment firm has ceased to comply with the capital adequacy or liquidity requirements of the law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts; (b) c. 4 after the words "Collective investment', a comma shall be added and a "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' shall be added. 3. In para. 5 the words "the relevant county court" shall be replaced by "the court responsible," and after the word "the court responsible" shall be added to "the court responsible."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u161	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 13 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u162	Under Paragraph 14, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 15, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u163	We're voting on the two paragraphs. Vote 88 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u164	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16. ......... 16........................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 24a-24e: Art. 24a. (1) The managing authority of the investment firm, respectively, depending on the internal distribution of functions: 1. shall be responsible for the effective and reliable management of the investment firm in accordance with the regulatory requirements, including for the appropriate allocation of obligations and responsibilities when determining the organisational structure, for the adoption of the rules under art. 24 and for the control of their implementation, as well as the prevention and identification of conflicts of interest; 2. approve and monitor the implementation of the investment firm's strategic objectives and the risk strategy and internal governance; 3. ensure the integrity and continuous functioning of accounting and financial reporting systems, including financial and operational controls, and compliance with regulatory requirements and applicable standards; 4. direct and supervise the fulfilment of the requirements under this Law on disclosure and provision of information; 5. responsible for the exercise of effective control of senior management staff; 6. monitor and periodically assess the effectiveness of the management systems in the investment firm, taking the necessary measures to address the findings. (2) Investment firms operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall provide the Commission with the information referred to in Article 1. 435 (2) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 within three days of the date of its disclosure. (3) The criteria to be met by the investment firm in order to be considered significant in view of the size, internal organisation, nature, scope and complexity of the activity carried out by the investment firm shall be determined by a decree. (4) Investment firms that are significant in view of the size, internal organisation and the nature, scope and complexity of their activities: 1. establish a remuneration committee; 2. establish a risk committee; 3. fulfil other requirements defined by the ordinance under para. 3. Art. 24b. The investment firm shall be obliged to have an internal control department which operates independently and has permanent control over compliance by the persons entrusted with the management of the investment firm and by all other persons working under a contract for the investment firm, that law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts. The structure, organisation, powers and relationships of the internal control department with other bodies and persons working for the investment firm shall be determined by rules adopted by the management body of the investment firm. Art. 24c. (1) In the case of a limited order submitted by a client with a subject-matter shares admitted to trading on a regulated market which is not immediately executed under the market conditions in force, the investment firm shall, unless the client expressly gives other orders, facilitate the earliest possible execution of the submitted order by making it public in a manner accessible to other market participants. (2) The obligation under para. 1 shall be deemed to have been met by the investment firm with the transmission of the limited order on a regulated market and/or multilateral trading system. (3) A decree may provide that the investment firm may not comply with the obligation under para. 1 if the order volume does not correspond to the normal market volume. Art. 24 years. (1) The information stored by the investment firm on the transactions concluded with financial instruments at the expense of a client shall contain at least details of the client's identity and of the actions taken pursuant to the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. (2) The investment firm shall keep the information on the services and activities carried out under art. 5, para. 2 and 3 at least 5 years. Art. 24e. (1) With the permission of the Vice-President: 1. an investment firm which does not perform any of the investment services and activities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 3 and 6 and who executes orders from clients in relation to financial instruments may hold such instruments on its own account; 2. requirements may be limited to an investment firm for maintaining an internal recovery plan in a deteriorated financial situation; 3. an investment firm that is significant may be exempted from the requirement to set up a risk committee; 4. an investment firm may determine a different level of ratio between the fixed and variable elements of remuneration from this under art. 24, para. 5; 5. an investment firm may be exempt from restrictions on participation in the management of the investment firm and other persons at the same time. (2) By a decision of the Committee on a proposal from the Vice-President, investment firms may be exempted from one or more of their obligations in relation to the maintenance of capital buffers. (3) The conditions and procedure for issuing the authorisations under para. 1 and the decision under para. 2 as well as the procedure for granting authorisations and approvals under Regulation (EU) No 575/2014 shall be laid down by a decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u165	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 16 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u166	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 17, 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u167	Are there any statements on the three paragraphs? I won't. Anblock, we vote paragraphs 17, 18 and 19. Vote 80 MPs: 71, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u168	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova under § 20. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u169	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 20 in the version of the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u170	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u171	We're voting on the two paragraphs. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u172	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova: In § 23 is created and Article 23 is created. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 38a and 38b: Art. 38a. (1) All investment firms except investment firms under art. 8, para. 5 shall disclose annually, individually, the following information on the Republic of Bulgaria, the Member States and third countries in which they have subsidiaries or have established branches on a consolidated basis: 1. name (s), description of activities and geographical location; 2. size of the turnover; 3. number of full-time employees (equivalent base); 4. financial result of the activity before taxation; 5. taxes charged on the financial result of the activity; 6. State subsidies received, if any; 7. profitability of assets obtained as a ratio of net profit to the total balance sheet number. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be subject to independent financial audit and shall be published as an annex to the annual financial statement on an individual basis or, where applicable, on a consolidated basis. Art. 38b. (1) The investment firm shall notify the National Revenue Agency of the share acquisition transactions of public companies by companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and their actual owners within the meaning of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. (2) The obligation under para. 1 shall be implemented by the investment firm electronically within 7 days of the conclusion of the transaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u173	Statements? I won't. We vote § 23. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u174	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u175	We vote paragraphs 24 and 25. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u176	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 26. The Commission supports the proposal to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u177	Statements? I won't. We are voting a new § 26 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 74, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u179	We are voting in favour of § 26 by importer, which receives a new numbering of § 27 by reference to a Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u180	Paragraph 27? a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Chapter 3, Section V is created art. 63a-63c: Art. 63a. (1) Upon request by the competent authority of the host Member State for the designation of a branch of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission shall, together with the competent authority of the host Member State or the consolidating supervisory authority, decide, if any, to designate a branch as significant within two months of receipt of the request. (2) The designation of a branch of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be without prejudice to the powers and functions of the Commission and the Vice-President under this law. (3) The Commission shall provide the competent authority of the host Member State with the information referred to in art. 72k, para. 2, p. 3 and 4 and performs the duties under art. 72, para. 1, t. 3 in cooperation with the competent authority of the home Member State. (4) In the event of an emergency situation under art. 72e, para. 1 The Commission shall notify the central banks "members of the European System of Central Banks, the European Systemic Risk Board (ESSR) and the authorities of art. 25, para. 10 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Art. 63b. (1) The Commission shall provide to the competent authorities of the host Member State where a significant branch of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is located: 1. information on the results of the risk assessments for those investment firms and, where applicable, under art. 72b, para. 1, t. 1; 2. the decisions referred to in art. 118, para. 1, t. 10-22, para. 3 as far as relevant to the relevant branch. (2) The Commission shall consult the competent authorities of host Member States where significant branches of investment firms authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria are opened on operational liquidity recovery plans, if relevant for the assessment of liquidity risk arising from exposures denominated in the local currency in the host Member State. Art. 63c. (1) Where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria has established a significant branch in another Member State and art. 72g-72i shall not apply, the Commission shall establish and chair the supervisory college of competent authorities from those Member States in order to facilitate cooperation under art. 63a, para. 3 and 4 and under art. 116a. The Supervisory Board shall be set up and operated on the basis of written rules laid down by the Commission after consulting the relevant competent authorities. (2) The Commission shall designate the competent authorities that will participate in each meeting or activity of the supervisory college, taking into account the importance of those authorities for the supervisory activity to be planned or coordinated, including the possible impact on financial stability in the Member States concerned under art. 12, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and art. 63a, para. Three and four. (3) The Commission shall provide in advance all members of the supervisory college with information on the organisation of the meeting, the main issues to be discussed and the actions to be dealt with. The Commission shall provide all members of the supervisory college and all information on the decisions taken at those meetings and the measures taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u181	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 28 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u182	Paragraph 28 "Proposition of Members of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28, which shall become § 29: ....29........................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u183	Statements? I won't. We vote § 29. They voted 83 MPs: 74, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u184	Paragraph 29? a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Chapter 3, Section VII is created. 68a and 68b: Art. 68a. (1) The Commission may request from the consolidating supervisory authority, if any, or from the competent authority of the home Member State, a branch of an investment firm other than an investment firm under art. 95 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 authorised in a Member State through which it operates in the Republic of Bulgaria is considered significant. The request shall state the reasons for determining the branch as significant and shall specify the following information: 1. whether the market share of the relevant branch of the investment firm in terms of the held client assets exceeds 2 percent in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. the possible impact of the suspension or termination of the activity of the investment firm on the market liquidity, payment systems and clearing and settlement systems in the Republic of Bulgaria, and 3. the size and importance of the relevant branch, taking into account the number of its clients in relation to the financial system of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Commission, together with the competent authority of the home Member State and with the consolidating supervisory authority, shall, if any, decide to designate a branch as significant within two months of receipt of the request. (3) If within the term under para. No joint decision has been reached, the Commission shall take its own decision within two months of the expiry of the period under para. 2. The Commission shall submit the decision to the consolidating supervisory authority and to the competent authority of the home Member State. (4) The decisions under para. 2 and 3 shall be reasoned by stating the opinions of the consolidating supervisory authority and/or the competent authority of the home Member State. (5) The designation of a branch of an investment firm by a Member State as significant shall be without prejudice to the powers and functions of the Commission and of the Vice-President under that law. (6) The Commission, respectively the Vice-President, shall cooperate with the competent authority of the home Member State in carrying out its duties under art. Article 112 (1) (b) of Directive 2013/36/EU. Art. 68b. (1) Where a significant branch of an investment firm based in another Member State is established in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission shall consult the competent authorities of the home Member State on operational liquidity recovery plans, if relevant for the assessment of liquidity risk arising from exposures denominated in the local currency. (2) Where the competent authorities of the home Member State have not consulted the Commission or where, as a result of the consultation, the Commission considers that the operational plans for liquidity recovery are not adequate, it may contact EBA and request assistance in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/78/EC (OJ L 331/12 of 15 December 2010) hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 30 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 74, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u186	According to § 30 there is a proposal made by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words s and the mixed-activity holding companies under the terms and conditions of this Act shall be replaced by the mixed-activity holding companies or mixed-activity holding companies which have as their subsidiary an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, unless otherwise provided for in the law. 2. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: The investment firms, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies or mixed holding companies which are supervised on a consolidated basis by the Commission shall establish internal rules, procedures and mechanisms for compliance with the requirements of art. Art. 11a, Art. 24, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 11 "14" para. 2, 4 and 5, Art. 24a, 25a and 25b and in their subsidiaries, including those not covered by this law. The rules, procedures and mechanisms shall be consistent and well integrated and allow subsidiaries to draw up any relevant data and information for the purposes of supervision. (5) Financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies shall provide all necessary information to the Commission to establish compliance with the requirements of this law and its implementing acts and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and to investigate infringements of those requirements. (6) Where an investment firm which is a parent institution of the European Union or an investment firm controlled by a parent financial holding company of the European Union or a parent mixed financial holding company of the European Union proves to the Commission that the application of the requirements for the introduction of rules, procedures and mechanisms under para. 5 is unlawful under the law of the third country in which the subsidiary concerned is established, they do not apply to that subsidiary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u187	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 31 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 72, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u188	Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 70 is amended as follows: Art. 70. (1) The Commission shall supervise on a consolidated basis where: 1. an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is a parent institution in a Member State or a parent institution of the European Union; 2. the parent undertaking of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is a parent financial holding company in a Member State, a parent financial holding company of the European Union, a parent mixed financial holding company of the European Union or a parent mixed financial holding company in a Member State; 3. the parent undertaking of an investment firm and of a credit institution authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is a parent financial holding company in a Member State, a parent financial holding company of the European Union, a parent mixed financial holding company of the European Union or a parent mixed financial holding company in a Member State where the investment firm has a larger balance sheet number than the credit institution. (2) Where a parent financial holding company in a Member State, a parent financial holding company from the European Union or a mixed parent financial holding company in a Member State is established in the Republic of Bulgaria and is a parent undertaking of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria and of another or more institutions authorised in other Member States, supervision on a consolidated basis shall be carried out by the Commission. (3) Paragraph 2 shall not apply where the parent undertakings of an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria and of an institution or institutions authorised in another or other Member States cover more than one financial holding company or mixed financial holding company in different Member States and which have in each of those Member States for subsidiaries credit institutions. In this case, consolidated supervision shall be exercised by the competent authority which authorised the credit institution with the largest balance sheet number. (4) Where a financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is a parent undertaking of more than one institution authorised in the European Union and none of those institutions is authorised in the Member State in which the financial holding company or mixed financial holding company is established, supervision on a consolidated basis shall be carried out by the Commission if the institution with the largest balance sheet number is an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria. This investment firm shall be considered to be controlled by a parent financial holding company of the European Union or a parent mixed financial holding company of the European Union. (5) By agreement with the competent authorities of the Member States concerned, the Commission may not apply the conditions under para. 2 - 4 if their application is inappropriate in view of the institutions involved and the relative importance of their activities in individual countries. The agreement shall specify the competent authority that will supervise on a consolidated basis. Prior to the conclusion of the agreement, the Commission shall enable the investment firm, which is a parent undertaking, respectively a parent financial holding company of the European Union or a mixed parent financial holding company in a Member State established in the Republic of Bulgaria, or the investment firm which is the institution with the largest balance sheet number, within a period specified by it to express its opinion. (6) At the request of a competent authority, the Commission may participate in consultations and sign agreements on the designation of a competent authority which will supervise on a consolidated basis pursuant to para. 5. In this case, the Commission may begin to supervise on a consolidated basis without the conditions laid down in para. 2... 4.............................................................. (7) The Commission shall inform the European Commission and EBA of the agreements concluded under para. 6 under which it will supervise on a consolidated basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u189	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 31 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 32. Vote 74 MPs: 70, none, abstention 4. The text of Paragraph 32 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u190	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u191	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the texts of paragraphs 33 and 34 in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 70, none, abstention 7. The texts of paragraphs 33 and 34 in accordance with the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u192	Under § 34, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 34, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Chapter 3, Section VII is created. 72a-72t: Art. 72a. Outside of the cases under art. 69 and 70 where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is included in supervision on a consolidated basis and the competent authority carrying out the supervision on a consolidated basis does not comply with provisions of its national legislation introducing the requirements of art. 112 (1) of Directive 2013/36/EU, the Commission may refer the matter to EBA for consideration. Art. 72b. (1) In cases where according to art. 69 and 70 The Commission shall be a consolidating supervisory authority or, where it is not, but an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is a subsidiary of a European Union parent institution, a European Union parent financial holding company or a mixed financial holding company of the European Union, shall take the necessary action within the framework of its powers to reach a joint decision with the other competent authorities on: 1. the application of the regulatory requirements for determining the adequacy of the own funds of the group of institutions at consolidated level with regard to the financial position and risk profile of that group, as well as the required level of own funds for the implementation of art. 118, para. 1, t. 11 to each person in the group of institutions and on a consolidated basis; in that case, the decision shall be taken within 4 months after the Commission, where a consolidating supervisory authority, has submitted to the other competent authorities concerned a report containing a risk assessment of the group of institutions, respectively within 4 months after the relevant competent authority supervising on a consolidated basis, provides similar information; 2. measures for the treatment of all important issues and material findings relating to liquidity supervision as well as to the adequacy of the organisation and the treatment of risks and of the need for specific liquidity requirements for the particular institution; in this case, the decision shall be taken within one month after the Commission, when it is the supervisory authority on a consolidated basis, has submitted a report containing an assessment of the liquidity risk profile of the group of institutions, respectively within one month after the relevant consolidating supervisory authority has provided analogue information. (2) When making a decision under para. 1 account shall be taken of the risk assessment of subsidiaries carried out by the competent authorities. (3) The decision under para. 1 shall be drawn up in writing, reasoned in detail and transmitted by the Commission where it is a consolidating supervisory authority to the competent authority supervising the European Union parent institution. In the event of disagreement, at the request of any of the other competent authorities concerned, the Commission shall consult EBA. The Commission may also consult EBA on its own initiative. Art. 72c. (1) If the competent authorities do not reach a joint decision within the time limits laid down in art. 72b, the decision shall be taken on a consolidated basis by the Commission where it is a consolidating supervisory authority, after taking into account the risk assessment of subsidiaries carried out by the relevant competent authorities. If within the time limits laid down in art. 72b, para. 1 one of the competent authorities has referred the matter to EBA, the Commission shall take its decision in accordance with EBA's decision referred to in Article 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. (2) In cases where the Commission exercises supervision on an individual or sub-consolidated basis against subsidiaries of a parent institution of the European Union or of a parent financial holding company of the European Union or of a parent mixed financial holding company of the European Union, when taking decisions under para. 1 it shall take into account the opinions and recommendations given by the consolidating supervisory authority as well as EBA's decision under art. 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 (3) The decisions under para. 1 and 2 shall be drawn up in writing, reasoned in detail, taking into account the risk assessment, opinions and reservations of other competent authorities. The Commission shall provide the decision under para. 1 of the relevant competent authorities and of the European Union parent institution. Art. Seventy-two years. (1) The Commission shall implement the joint decisions under art. 72b, as well as the decisions of other competent authorities similar to the decisions referred to in Article 72b. 72c. (2) The decisions referred to in art. 72b and 72c shall be reviewed annually or in exceptional circumstances if a competent authority responsible for the supervision of subsidiaries of a parent institution of the European Union or of a parent financial holding company of the European Union or of a mixed financial holding company of the European Union makes a written and reasoned request to the Commission to update a decision under para. 1. In this case, the review shall be carried out jointly with the competent authority making the request. Art. 72e. (1) In the event of an emergency situation, including in the cases referred to in art. 18 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, or in case of adverse market developments, which may jeopardise the liquidity of the market and the stability of the financial system in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State where group companies are authorised or significant branches are established, the Commission, where a consolidating supervisory authority, shall immediately inform EBA and the authorities referred to in Article 1. 25, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 and para. 10 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, providing them with all relevant information for the performance of their functions. (2) If, for the purposes of supervision on a consolidated basis exercised by the Commission, information is necessary that has already been provided to another competent authority in order to prevent it from being made available again to the competent authorities concerned, the Commission shall request it from the relevant competent authority where possible. Art. 72f. (1) For the purposes of supervision on a consolidated basis, the Commission shall conclude written coordination and cooperation agreements with the competent supervisory authorities in the Member States concerned. The Commission may assume responsibility for the performance of additional supervisory tasks where provided for in the relevant agreement. (2) Where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is a subsidiary of an institution from a Member State, the Commission may, on the basis of an agreement under art. 28 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 with the competent authority of the European Union parent institution to delegate the responsibility for the supervision of the investment firm to a subsidiary. (3) Where an investment firm authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria is a parent company of an institution in a Member State, the Commission may, on the basis of an agreement under art. 28 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 with the relevant competent authority to take responsibility for the supervision of the institution of a subsidiary. (4) The Commission shall inform EBA of the conclusion and content of the agreements under para. Two and three. Art. 72g. (1) The Commission, when it is a consolidating supervisory authority, shall establish supervisory colleges of the competent authorities to facilitate the performance of functions under art. 72-72 and provides an appropriate level of coordination and cooperation and, where appropriate, participation of the relevant competent authorities of third countries, where appropriate, subject to confidentiality and European Union law. The competent authorities responsible for the supervision of subsidiaries of a parent institution of the European Union, of a parent financial holding company of the European Union or of a mixed parent financial holding company of the European Union, the competent authorities of the host Member State where significant branches are established, where appropriate, and the central banks of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB). (2) The Commission may participate in supervisory colleges established by other competent authorities where they are consolidating supervisory authorities pursuant to Directive 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (3) For the establishment and operation of the supervisory colleges, the Commission shall, after consulting the other competent authorities, conclude written agreements under art. 72f. (4) The supervisory colleges under para. 1 create the necessary conditions and arrangements for: 1. exchange of information between the competent authorities and EBA in accordance with art. 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010; 2. agreeing on the assignment of tasks and delegation of powers on a voluntary basis; 3. laying down a plan for carrying out supervisory checks based on a group risk assessment; 4. increase the effectiveness of supervision by removing unnecessary duplication of supervisory requirements, including in relation to requests for information under art. Art. 72e. 72k, para. 5; 5. consistent application of the provisions of this Law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts on prudential supervision requirements for all companies in the group, without prejudice to the possibilities and discretion granted by European Union law; 6. application of art. 72, para. 1, t. 3 taking into account the activities of other supervisory colleges or groups that may be established in this area. (5) The Commission shall cooperate with EBA and the other competent authorities when participating in supervisory colleges. The confidentiality requirements shall not prevent the exchange of confidential information. (6) The establishment and operation of a supervisory college shall be without prejudice to the powers of the committee, respectively of the Vice-President, under this law, under the Financial Supervision Commission Act and under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Art. 72z. (1) In cases where it is a consolidating supervisory authority, the committee shall manage the meetings of the supervisory college and shall designate the competent authorities to participate in each college meeting or activity, taking into account the importance of those supervisory authorities to be planned or coordinated, including the possible impact on financial stability in the Member States concerned, and the supervisory obligations of significant branches. (2) As a consolidating supervisory authority, the committee shall provide in advance all members of the supervisory college with information on the organisation of the meeting, the main issues and the actions to be discussed. The Commission shall provide all members of the supervisory college and all information on decisions taken at those meetings and measures taken in due time. (3) The Commission shall, as a consolidating supervisory authority and, subject to the confidentiality requirements, inform EBA of the activities of the supervisory colleges in charge, including in emergency situations, and shall provide it with all information essential for the convergence of supervisory practices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u193	So far, since there's a minute and a half left. Mr. Ermenkov wants a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u194	Madam President, honourable Members! Here we talked about whether, on several occasions, the statements made by colleagues that our vacation is a debt, that we are some bums, that I should suggest that I think about extending the time until the adoption of the law, but let us not go into such extremes. I think the coworkers are tired enough already. I see that the reader reads to such a degree that we hardly understand, hopefully from the stenogram it is clear what this is about. Allow me, for I have been invited by the chairman, that it be not in vain, that I wish you good holidays and that you may be safe and sound. [[Laughter, excitement and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-09.u195	Thank you. Colleagues, we're done with the report. The sequel of art. 72 and the next of this paragraph will be in the next session of the National Assembly. I join Mr. Ermenkov's wishes for bright holidays. Next regular plenary session on 22 April 2015, 9:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
