ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear MPs, days ago the world was shocked by the terrorist attacks in the French capital, which led to hundreds of victims and many wounded. There is no justification for such actions against the lives of innocent people, so we strongly and decisively condemn not only this terrorist act, but also any form of terrorism as a rude and unacceptable violation of democracy and modern civilization. Today, let us bow our heads and with a minute of silence honor the memory of those who died in the tragedy that plunged into grief the French capital, the whole world, and since yesterday it is clear that the Russian plane has also been shot down as a result of a terrorist attack. Please, just a minute of silence. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Colleagues, I suggest to your attention the draft Work Programme of the National Assembly for the period from 18 to 20 November 2015, which was discussed earlier today at the Conference of Presidents: 1. First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, importing the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2016, importing the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 On behalf of the Conference of Presidents, we propose that the debate and the vote on points 1 and 2 be held on this day and that, if necessary, the working time be extended until the reports of the Standing Committees on this point are made available. 3, namely on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. On the day of tomorrow, we will start with the opinion of the importer under the State Budget Act and the debates on it. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on amendment and supplement to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 2 October 2015 with importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs and two laws of the Council of Ministers, a follow-up from last week. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013, importing the Council of Ministers. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, importing the Council of Ministers, adopted at first vote on 7 October 2015. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines, and on their Destruction, importers, Valentin Radev and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 3 September 2015. 8. Second vote on the Bill on Accounting, importing the Council of Ministers, adopted at the First vote on 2 October 2015. 9. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft importing the Council of Ministers. 10. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and determining the number of Armed Forces importing the Council of Ministers. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on its usual day Friday, from its usual hour " 11:00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 169 MPs: 147 against 3, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Proposals have been made for the inclusion of bills in our weekly Programme in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules. First at the time is Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal for inclusion as a point of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Mr. Enchev, you have two minutes to support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u2	I submit a proposal which has already been rejected by you once, Members of Parliament, Madam President, was rejected by you on 15 July this year, when I proposed that the Law on Political Parties change that point in it, which states that a political party received more than 1% in the parliamentary elections received state subsidy 11 BGN. to a vote for the party concerned. I believe that at the moment when Budget 2016 is voted on the most restrictive budget for the past 26 years, we can show as an act of social solidarity a reduction of the state subsidy of 11 BGN. 5 BGN. Secondly, this will be not only an act of social solidarity, but also a great relief for the state budget, because in just 15 20 minutes we will look at the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. And thirdly, not least, we will, of course, come closer to European standards, because in the European Union, the average subsidy for a given vote for a party that has received more than 1% in parliamentary elections is an average of 3-3,5 euros. Therefore, it is not logical, it is not socially fair in the poorest country in the European Union, in the most miserable country in the European Union with the worst health care, and in a moment we will also look at the budget of health, the state subsidy is the highest. for a given voice. I believe that this is not normal and you could correct this mistake and give a very clear signal to the Bulgarian citizens who are currently monitoring our behaviour in the vote on Budget 2016 that we are nationally responsible and, I hope, all of you will support this proposal, which will be a small revolution in our political system. Just to tell you that in four years of the term of office of this Parliament, the ruling party GERB will receive 22 million. 900,000. lv. Do you think that's normal? Do you think it is normal for the next BSP party to receive 22 million. 990 thousand. lv. For these four years, or the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, 22 million. 34,000. lv.? Thank you for your attention and I expect your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u3	I put to the vote the proposal to include this Bill in our weekly programme. They voted 144 MPs: 35 against 70, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u4	I see that colleagues are now entering the Chamber. I hope you'll be of state wisdom. I mostly appeal to you, the ruling coalition, GERB, the Reformation bloc and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which unofficially supports this government, to vote in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and not of the party oligarchy, which is most interested in these huge, unjust state subsidies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u5	It's a re-vote. They voted 145 MPs: 34 against 70, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is by the MPs Petar Slavov and Willy Lilkov, who propose to include in the weekly program a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Value Added Tax, inc. No 554-01-113, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 10 June 2015. We're listening, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill that I have tabled with colleagues from the Reformation Block concerns the introduction of some reliefs for small businesses. I think that not only the ruling majority parties, but all parliamentary parties and coalitions in this House have similar clauses in their programmes. By the way, this is about the so-called VAT registration threshold. We're suggesting that it is now increased by $50,000 to $200,000. This increase is also in line with Directive 112/2006/EC, in line with levels in other European countries. I suppose many of you have been asking the question lately, and perhaps our constituents have put it to us, what has this ruling majority done for small and medium-sized businesses in this country? Unfortunately, if you look at the tax laws packages that we have adopted since last week, you will see that some, I would say, are quite bad things being offered, starting from the tax, the tax, the garden, and I do not know what other taxes, I would say, increase the tax burden of such things. I hope, of course, before the second reading they fall, but let's really think about doing something good for the small business. If this proposal is accepted, we will significantly relieve all these small companies, small pavilions that we see, who are currently passing this binding threshold of 50 000 per year turnover, are forced to conduct a rather complicated accounting, to engage a target accountant, to submit monthly reports to revenue authorities and so on. That is to say, this complication for them is both aggravating and costly. Raising the threshold of 200,000, and if you consider it to be a lot, it could be discussed between the two readings to be an example of 100,000. BGN, as the standard border in the European Union, this thing will undoubtedly ease them. In any case, it will also brighten up a large part of the economy, as many small companies are forced, unfortunately, to hide speed so as not to exceed that 50 thousand. lv. At least this way they won't do it in practice, so I urge you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u7	I put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in our weekly programme of this Bill. Vote 160 MPs: 48 against 47, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I think this proposal is key and very important. As I understand it, 2012 Ms. Menda Stoyanova also proposed lifting the VAT threshold, but less. Let us have a debate on what the amount of raising the threshold should be, not rejecting the proposal itself, as this measure is helping small and medium-sized businesses. There will also be an enormous amount of money in the economy. That is why I am asking you - mostly colleagues from GERB, yet we are a right-wing government, with right-wing measures and I think this will have a very good impact on the economy itself. The derogation procedure itself could be for two years, for three years, let's try it, let's see how it works. In Poland, they raise it twice because it works because it has a very good positive effect on the fissure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u9	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 169 MPs: 61, against 52, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Reports of bills and draft decisions for the period from 11 to 17 November 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area. Importer s Manol Genov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. A bill to ratify the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank concerning loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and Pacific, as well as in the overseas countries and territories. A bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. National Health Strategy 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Health, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. On 13 November 2015, the National Assembly received Decision No 2855-NR of 20 October 2015 of the Central Election Commission declaring the results of the vote in the National referendum on 25 October 2015. By my letter the Decision was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and by e-mail to all MPs. The National Assembly has received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing results from statistical research on: (a) information on average monthly salary and list of employees by employment and service for the third quarter of 2015; (b) information for September 2015 on the following indicators: - R & D indexes in Section "Retails' excluding trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles; - indexes of industrial production; - indexes of construction production; (c) the consumer price indices for October 2015; (d) information on gross domestic product for the third quarter of 2015. Express assessments. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Before we begin the items on the agenda, there are requests for declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups. First is the group of GERB as the most numerous parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, the MPs of GERB, offer our deepest condolences to the victims and victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris and the attack on the passenger plane on the Sinai Peninsula. The terrorist attack in the capital of the French Republic was carried out against peaceful citizens in places that relate only to the secular nature of European civilization and show that the aim of modern barbarism is precisely the free secular state. On Friday night in Paris, terrorists killed innocent people without making any demands. The goal was obviously to take as many lives as possible. But an even more significant goal was to instill fear and terror in free societies all over the world. Nobody feels safe anywhere. The target of the terrorist attack is not accidentally Paris, the city, which is a symbol not only of modern secular civilization, but the highest achievements in culture and, above all, freedom, freedom that guarantees the right of everyone to practice their religion, to belong to their culture, as long as they recognise this right to everyone else. This makes this terrorist act not only against France but also against the entire democratic world. However, the attacks in Paris are also attacks against the foundations of the European Union against its fundamental values of peace, tolerance and equality before the law. This is a blow to the meaning and purpose of the existence of this unique community, bringing together not only countries but mostly free people. The attack is also aimed at the inner feelings of Europeans for compassion and justice at a time when European countries and European citizens accept hundreds of thousands of refugees, immigrants and make an enormous effort to prevent the difficulties that arise. Some young people who have grown up with all the opportunities that European civilization gives, but apparently without the ability to take a decent place in the free European society, have reached out to the lives of their compatriots who could be their friends. As Europeans, we obviously have gaps in the education and integration of these people, which we must very seriously think about and work on. The attack on the plane of the Russian Federation, where victims are once again peaceful citizens, has shown that security and democracy worldwide are at risk. We don't have a classic enemy against ourselves. Threats are asymmetrical, and the only way to counter terrorism and its terrifying manifestations is unification. Only the combined efforts of the entire international community and the security services are the formula for success in the fight against radical acts of jihadism. We therefore welcome the messages at the G20 meeting and support the idea that the political differences between countries must be left behind in the name of democracy, peace and security. This is an unprecedented act of unification in defence of fundamental human values. At the same time, we of GERB's Parliamentary Group strongly oppose attempts to shift blame on an entire religion, as well as on every individual citizen who confesses it. We also oppose attempts to put a sign of equality between Islamic State terrorists and refugees. We will fight against any kindling of anti-Emigrant sentiment and xenophobia, because we believe that if we allow them as a society, we will destroy everything that Europe has been building for the past seven decades. Today it is very important as Bulgarians Europeans to show the peoples of France and Russia that they are not alone. We empathize with their pain and determination to resist fear. The most important thing now is to agree among the leading democratic countries on the actions we need to take to eliminate the causes and resources for financing terrorism. At the same time, at European and national level, we must rethink the objectives, means and measures of implementing policies for the integration of citizens belonging to the marginalized groups. The existence of ghetto-isolated communities is one of the strongest prerequisites for the radicalisation of individuals who become potential perpetrators of extremist and terrorist acts. As MPs from the largest centre-right party in Bulgaria, we declare our firm position that the European Union can overcome this unprecedented crisis only if we adhere to the ideas and values that led to its creation and expansion. We are certain that only together through policies of European solidarity can we defeat terrorism by preserving peace in Europe and the world. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u11	Thank you. There is a request from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, such acts shake every normal human being and demotivate all his desires. Therefore, allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to present you with a declaration concerning the latest terrorist acts. The DPS parliamentary group strongly and categorically condemns the bloody monstrous act in Paris, bordering on brutality and poverty with military diversion, but also with all acts of terrorism at different points of the world in recent months The movement for rights and freedoms has a consistent and principled position against all manifestations of expression, promotion and justification of racial, religious and ethnic hatred, xenophobia and intolerance, including those leading to aggressive nationalism, egocentrism, discrimination and hostility to differences, including minorities, migrants, immigrants and others. All of us people, all of us, citizens of the civilized world, must respect and cherish life before anyone else. This type of barbarism and darkness, talking about the dehumanization of the instigators and their perpetrators, must be stopped with all the efforts of the world's democratic forces and the civilized world. Life as the highest good cannot become the price of any value. These values must be defended and developed in peaceful cohabitation, and conflicts must be resolved by word, but without hatred. This speech and the pursuit of understanding must protect life. Peace and life are high policy and true democracy. By believing that humanity is not just a virtue, but a duty of every human being, we deeply mourn the victims of the victims in Paris and elsewhere in the world, for this bloody night on 13 November 2015. Suffering and solidarity with the French people unite us in defence of freedom, democracy and life. This shocking tragedy is yet another proof of the need for Europe to develop new strategies and new visionaryism for its security and future, for a peaceful co-existence and multicultural world, for dealing with the refugee wave. Human tragedy should not be met with bullets. Bullets deepen it and create new and new tragedies. It should be known that Islam's greatest enemy is Islam, and despite the monstrous act, a whole world religion and its worshipers should not be stigmatized. The modern world must distinguish between those who can pray and those who can shoot. We need to be united and dedicated in the fight to protect human civilization. The good is stronger than the evil and our unwavering belief that it is always, always the ultimate winner. The fight against global terrorism against those who have lost human satraps will protect our values. Resist and prevent terrorism, strengthen security measures, optimize interaction between special services and intelligence plants, active cooperation and information exchange, fight against the propaganda of terror and criminal prosecution of street users. However, the basis of this fight must be the International Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and International Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u13	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we expressed our sympathy for the victims of the bombings in Paris, the victims of the Russian plane, the victims of terrorism. However, this solidarity should not prevent us from seeing the main problem. We need to name this problem clearly and simply, we've been talking about it for a long time. There is no longer a refugee crisis, there is a crisis in Europe. It is not just European security that has failed, it has failed European policy as a whole. European politicians have failed. They cannot show the will and direction of their peoples. Europe remains a hostage of foreign conflicts, American, Russian and whatever else. Today, things are getting worse because it is clear that the hostage is a hostage in war. The word "war" defined the French President. Now is the time to say, which way did we warn? We said that after the so-called refugees, for whom so many crocodile tears have shed and among these so-called refugees, there are many who are not saved from war. Some of them come to seek easier life in Europe, but others come to take away our lives in Europe, the lives of Europeans. Let us say very clearly and categorically: liberal global nihilism has failed. All the common clichés that have been spoken for 20 years have failed. It is time, as Europeans, to open our eyes and insist on another policy - a policy that will guarantee the security of European countries, the security of European citizens. Europe is very proud of its values of freedom, equality, brotherhood bequeathed to us precisely by the French Revolution, by France. But if Europe is so proud of these values, then let us protect them. The borders must be closed, the boats, the illegal barges must be returned and not admitted to the European shores. Europe is obliged to respond to today's challenge. Otherwise, such a Europe makes no sense. National countries must take part in the security they are owed and which Europe does not guarantee them. Those same national countries today are under attack, the national states that have been under attack, the same liberals who have led this policy, have been in a hurry to bury in the last 20 years. We have said many times that the problem must be solved in his fetus. Instead of solving it, we were trying to deal with the symptoms, not the problem. This means that the European Union should have a position of its own......................................... in defence of its interests. This means that the European Union, together with its partners, will not extend the influence and actions of the Islamic State, together with its partners, the United States, Russia, the combined efforts of all countries fighting terrorism. This also means that the Brussels official is increasingly listening to the positions of the Eastern and Central European countries, countries that have suffered from regimes where they have also suffered human rights, freedoms and rights. One of these countries is Bulgaria. That is why we insist that these same European officials, to whom many people in Bulgaria worship, bow and fear to speak their minds to them, open their ears because the attack is against everyone. No quota policies will solve the problem of illegal immigration. Until the problem of illegal emigration is resolved, no one is sure that there are thousands and thousands of jihadists who will attack every object in Europe tomorrow. Get on the Internet with available media, and see people holding their heads cut off, today they are in photos in European capitals in T-shirts and jeans; people who have photographed themselves with machine guns or people who have photographed themselves under the black flag of the Islamic State, today in Europe have photographed themselves as refugees. Don't we all see that?! How long are we going to talk in common, common clichés with which we will try to express something again, I will call it "psevdo solidarity." Solidarity means common action, not just condolence telegrams. This, in our opinion, from the Patriotic Front, is solidarity. Let us address the specific problems in Bulgaria. Over two years ago we started talking about building the fence. Today, this problem continues to exist. One problem, which I hope will finally be resolved with the adoption of next year's budget. But the issue is not only the construction of the fence along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. It's also a matter of guarding this fence, of this facility. We demand that the Bulgarian army be included in the security of the border. We say that a lot, and I don't know why some people keep getting deaf. It is better for the army to guard the border than to have the army patrol the cities one day, as is happening today in Paris, Rome or Brussels. In order not to allow this, let us send the army where it belongs, not to play with common democratic views and principles. Secondly, we must restore or, more precisely, apply the return policy to the countries from which they came, to those people who cannot prove their right to refugee status. Thirdly, it is clear that with the policy to give all these people the opportunity to register freely or to travel around Bulgaria, or to register at private addresses, there must be an end. In addition to the two closed-ended centres of the Ministry of Interior, others must be opened to the Agency for Refugees. These people need to be under control before their destiny is decided, or do we return them to where they came from? The next problem that needs to be solved. We all know that for at least 20 years Bulgaria has been the subject of massive propaganda by various Islamist preachers. Some of them have also settled in the official institutions of the Bulgarian Muslims. Therefore, we at the Patriotic Front insist that all foreign citizens who conduct politics in the Main Mufti and in the regional mufti must be removed. All foreign citizens who preach Islam untraditional in Bulgaria and are free to be removed and removed from the country. All those Bulgarian citizens who have graduated from the so-called private.. universities.. there are people who have studied the same thing for eight or ten years and come with the big beards and preach another Islam which our Muslims do not know and deny. These people should also be removed and banned from preaching, for they preach that Islam, which we see today on the images, which is proud of the severed head he holds. These people need to be removed. Enough talk, ladies and gentlemen, it's time to act! It is high time that every single one of these should be a Bulgarian policy, but it should also be a proposal for European policy.Everyone came from the Third World.It was an Islam state, whether Africa, or Asia, must be integrated into European civilization. It must be integrated through education, it must be aware that it should not force its values in Europe, but also in Europe, where it will comply with a civilization that has been built for thousands of years. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to lie to each other, there is a war between two civilizations and during war we Europeans, we Bulgarians, must defend our European Christian civilization. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from FDI and singles from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Next is a statement on behalf of a group. Mrs. Kovatchka from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Center of Democracy. You've got ten minutes. for your declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u16	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the wave of terror in Paris has not only led to the human tragedy of the dead and their families, but also puts the entire civilization to the test. The foundations of our society have been affected. The brutal violence of modern barbarians leading to the death of innocent people is terrifying. The threat of death, chaos and destruction is the flag of terrorists. Undoubtedly, the carriers of this violence, in the face of the Islamic State, standing in order the strength of ordinary people, human morality and modern society are doomed. A united Europe cannot be defeated by evil. She will win with her morals and her people. What are the reasons for the unprecedented acts of terrorism in the heart of Europe, and what should be our response to this threat? They say misery goes where there are doors open. What are the open doors of terrorism in Europe? The creation of the Islamic State and its ideology of hatred and destruction are largely linked to conflicts and civil wars in the countries of the Middle East in recent years. Expectedly, these conflicts have led to the destruction of entire countries and social catastrophes of their peoples. This situation was exploited by the creators of the Islamic State and under the cover of pseudo-religion began their battle against civilization. It turns out that in Europe, after the economic crisis and the subsequent unemployment and the fall of living standards, there are many dissatisfied Muslims whose frustration and anger can be redirected by the cunning preachers of hatred, and these people can become supporters of violence and terror. Indeed, modern society is vulnerable to terrorism and full protection from it is difficult to achieve. This is used well by the enemies of civilization. Europe's response to the threats of terrorism must be without hesitation and decisive. It must be energetic and aim not only at the military structures of the Islamic quasi-state, but also at their ideology. A violent war must not be allowed to occur. But Europe must look forward. She always won with morals and had a high responsibility. We are convinced that he will now quickly find ways for political regulation of conflicts in the Middle East and for finding financial resources to support the economies of the countries concerned. Europe, in the face of threats, must become increasingly united. It is necessary to build new, common safety and counterterrorism structures, to improve intelligence and interaction between security services in the European Union. Our government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs need to make immediate and energetic efforts to achieve these objectives. Time requires this to be priority number one today. Bulgaria also needs to learn its lessons and quickly compensate for perceived weaknesses in the fight against terrorism. We need to review all safety structures in Bulgaria, their functions and interaction with European structures. It is necessary to strengthen intelligence and prevention, to provide modern technical means for the safety services and to provide financial resources for the effective functioning of the system. We must recognise that the measures taken in Bulgaria to strengthen border control, increased police presence and additional safety measures in mass public events are a good response and are already effective, but this is only the beginning of a long process of reforms to achieve high efficiency of safety structures. In all our actions against terrorism, we must remember two dangers: The first was pointed out by President Obama and consists in the danger of mixing Islamic fundamentalism and its anti-sub-subs. The true religion of the millions of Muslims around the world. This is unacceptable! These people are part of us and part of our civilization. Our future is connected to them. The other danger is the mechanical mixing of the migration wave problem in Europe and terrorism. Europe's tolerance to refugees and the humanitarian crisis is not contrary to solid responses to terrorism, and this must be clearly emphasised. We are convinced that our Parliament, our government and our society will find a common and correct response to the threats of terrorism in Europe and Bulgaria. We have the will, the morals and the organization to achieve this and to protect our society and the future from the destructive power of violence and barbarism of terror. Our civilization and all of us will not surrender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Kovachka. Following is a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival. People's representative Georgi Kuchukov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u18	Declaration by the ABB Parliamentary Group on terrorist attacks in Paris and the need to activate efforts to counter and eradicate terrorism. By sharing the grief of the relatives and relatives of the dozens of French citizens who have fallen victim to one of the most brutal acts of terrorism in modern history, expressing solidarity with the people of France and supporting the efforts of the French government to restore order and peace in the country; - viewing the tragedy in Paris as a blow not only against the French people, but also against all humanity, against democracy, freedom and universal human values; - by decisively rejecting any kind and manifestation of terrorism and declaring itself a global action and unity of the international community in the fight against terrorist threat carriers, such as today's first place is the Islamic State whose atrocities and vandalism must be stopped and punished; - expressing concern about events close to our borders, resulting in human suffering and sacrifices, destruction of material values, an unprecedented refugee and migration crisis and acute opposition between different countries and communities; - based on the understanding of international solidarity, such as a common area of dialogue, stability and cooperation, shared responsibilities and common views on the preservation and development of modern civilization; - taking into account that the solution to the conflict in Syria and other countries in the region that fuel terrorism can only be found through negotiations and understanding between the United States and Russia, and the European Union is also actively involved in this process; - aware of potential threats to neighbouring regions, including ours, which requires additional investment in the stability of individual countries and regionally; - paying attention that despite the serious challenges Bulgaria faces in the area of migration, asylum, refugee pressure management, it makes an effort in full compliance with the expectations and requirements of the European Union, while at the same time suffering great losses from sanctions against and from the Russian Federation, the ABB Parliamentary Group supports the proposals for maximum broad cooperation and unification of efforts to combat terrorism, including through the creation of a global anti-terrorism coalition under the auspices of the UN. Supports the readiness of the Republic of Bulgaria to work in the future within the international community and the organizations and unions in which it participates, to prevent terrorism, eccentricism and violence, to eliminate their roots and punish the perpetrators of criminal acts against humanity and humanity. Supports the strengthening of dialogue with Russia and its full attraction as an integral part of the international security system in drawing up concerted measures and taking joint action in the fight against the offensive of radical Islam and international terrorism, in regulating various crises and confrontations around the world, in efforts to non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and others. Calls on the United States and Russia, with the active participation of the European Union, to take on the role of overcoming the already emerging problems in their foetus, and they are mastered in the regions and countries concerned and not to allow a new influx of refugees to Europe; Insists on a fairer and evener distribution in the European Union of the burden, including financial, of dealing with refugee and migration waves, with particular attention to countries such as Bulgaria, which are the first to take on this pressure, hot points for registration and for first assessment to be exported outside the borders of the European Union, close to the conflict zones, to suspend the agreement and review the criteria for countries of origin. It encourages the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to stand up for the above positions on the issue of refugees, as well as to lead a responsible and active regional partnership policy, first of all, with immediate neighbours. Insists on the revision and annulment of sanctions towards Russia as ineffective, unfair and counterproductive by nature and effect both for countries such as Bulgaria and for the European Union and third countries. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Intention and desire for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov will make a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, our group was not thinking of making a statement regarding the tragic results of the bombings in Paris. Today, we felt that we were paying our respects to the victims and condolences to their loved ones to the victims of such events in Paris, in Egypt, in Ankara or Beirut. And maybe in the next few days, weeks or months, other points will be added to this list? Because our declarations must not acquire a banal sound before we have answered a number of questions and many of these issues continue to be found. Perhaps it is better to discuss them, not after one or another, a horrific act of violence and murder, but in order to prevent or at least significantly limit these consequences. Today we can ask ourselves, is the purpose of the acts of terrorism in Paris not to bring France into the war in Syria? And that seems to be a fact. Today, we have to ask ourselves, is the subject of immigrants and refugees deliberately not only being put into the explanation of other events? Because we have seen the reaction of many right-wing governments in Europe, I would say, on the far right, who immediately used these cases to declare that they are closing their borders and that until every immigrant is thoroughly explored, they will not allow it on their territory. Today, Europe is on the verge of dangers that it has experienced decades ago and again does not always find the reasons where their roots are. We have to bear in mind that if politicians do not create ideas, opposition, the ideology for the war of civilizations which was envisioned years ago, will prove not only to be a forecast, but a plan for conflicts in the world, because primary divisions between ethnicities, nations and religions are more understandable to the mass than humans, they should never be underestimated and ignored. But if there are no ideas in the world that unite people, regardless of borders, ethnicities and religions, including dividing them, if there is no policy that can be seen that, despite many differences, people have in common and differently, these conflicts will deepen. Bulgaria has no interest in such a primitive world, and anyone who realizes it must restore the meaning of politics, not as a means of distribution of money and resources, not as a means of giving power, not as a way of forming some organizations, but as a way of putting the real questions to millions of people. The other deep reason is in this transnational capital, in this huge money. Do you ask yourself that only from Libya in various European and global financial institutions are there over 1.5 trillion dollars? These are numbers spoken by authoritative European politicians. Is there not too much interest in such money to have neither control nor clear origin nor a country that can manage it? Because in recent years, a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa have been broken down and destroyed. Yes, there really were authoritarian governments and there was no democracy. But is it better to replace worldly governments with finite religious governments, with powerlessness, with the clash of different groups, with the occupation that was carried out and which almost nowhere led to lasting stability and to improving people's lives? Should we not ask ourselves at the level of these responsibilities are all Bulgarian state institutions? Doesn't the Bulgarian Head of State become some kind of spokesperson of various interests, but not those who have the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state? Perhaps it is a coincidence that before many such conflict events he constantly gives some statements, most often outside Bulgaria, to blame one country or another, rather one. Can't he see that this conflict is growing from both sides of Europe and Russia? But this is not in the interest of either the European Union or Russia. That is why we must ask all these questions. We need to ask what commitments have been made by the military ministers of the countries of the European Union? Therefore, our parliamentary group, in the face of our representatives in the Committees on Defence and Foreign Policy, will ask for a hearing of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on what lies ahead, on what European solidarity is expressed and on what Bulgaria can and cannot afford in this process. We insist on restoring the role of the United Nations Security Council, because if there were really common and sincere efforts to eradicate the so-called Islamic State, this would already be a solved issue. Because someone can't use the big resources. It cannot be fought over oil roads, its distribution and in some cases such groups to be comfortable and in others to be the main enemies. It must be clear that mankind's main enemy today is extremism, terrorism, attempts to invade the lives of peaceful citizens. Therefore, today, the European Union and Russia must find common answers. Therefore, today, the United States, Russia, the European Union and the other great powers must have a common fight against common principles and concerted action. If they do, you will see that the attack on terrorism will be very strong and will give quick results. However, if double standards are applied, if we continue only to express sadness over tragic events, these events will not pass the world by. I hope they pass Bulgaria. But in order for this to happen, Bulgaria must have a responsible, consistent and strong policy. If we can do this together, we can be of use to our citizens. If not, we will announce the tragic facts, we will express our condolences, we will comment on the events, but they will continue with more and more terrifying force. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Desire and intention for a declaration on behalf of the Reformation Bloc "The People's Representative Boris Stanimirov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Reformation Block Parliamentary Group will not make a statement in substance on the issue of the attacks. Our clear attitude was expressed in a minute's silence. I believe that all these seven, if I am not mistaken, declarations in which we have heard a number of true and correct things, do not actually contribute to the Bulgarian society. The example that we saw from the French Parliamentary Congress that day, how all French MPs and those in charge and opposition stand together and sing their national anthem, should lead us to the idea that at such a time it is good to have a joint declaration of the entire Bulgarian Parliament, a declaration supported by all parliamentary groups, in which to show that we are united in our opinion and stand united behind our nation and behind the European peoples in such a great challenge. There's no point in five, six, seven or eight separate declarations saying the same thing. This is something that we Bulgarian parliamentarians really have to learn from. A few weeks ago, it was the British soldier's sofa, their Day of truce, in which the leaders of all major parties traditionally stand side by side again, in a row and together with the Queen serve their wreaths to the Memorial of the Dead. Let us realize that there are times, there are challenges in which our people expect us to be united, to be together, to speak with one voice, not through each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. I accept this declaration as more of an information and intent. I think we're done with the declaration regime. We move on to the voted agenda with item one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2016 Importer is the Council of Ministers, 30 October 2015. There are two reports. The first report is from the Committee on Budget and Finance. The People's Representative Diana Yordanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, before I introduce you to the report of the Budget Committee, to make a procedure for the admission of Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Ganka Avramova, Director of the Directorate of Finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u25	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in plenary. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u26	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe under a draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 502-01-88, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At a meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Dr. Glinka Komitov, Manager of NHIF, Director of Departments in the ministries, representatives of employers' organizations, representatives of trade unions in Bulgaria, representatives of thought organizations, etc. The bill was presented by Minister Moskov, who pointed out that the draft budget of the NHIF for 2016 was drawn up in accordance with the possibilities of the budget macrogram, in terms of financial constraints and is consistent with the objective of achieving a balanced budget. The aim is to maintain the level of health insurance services in the country within the framework of the financial resources envisaged. 1. Revenues: The revenue and transfers for 2016 are available at an amount of 3 204,7 million. BGN, or with 129,2 million. lv. in more than 2015 In the context of this amount of health insurance contributions, EUR 2 121,0 million will take place. BGN, or 80.3 million. lv. In more than 2015 and in transfers to health insurance of 1 045,2 million. BGN, or with 66.9 million. lv. in more than 2015. The transfer from the central budget to cover the lack of funds for 2015 falls away for 2016. The tax revenue is 14,5 million. BGN as much as in 2015 and from the intended transfer from the Ministry of Health to finance the costs of medicinal products, vaccines and activities for their implementation for the health activities under art. 82, para. 2, item 3 of the Health Act; for activities for health uninsured persons, including: complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with skin-veneric and psychiatric diseases; intensive treatment; activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act for the amounts under art. 37, para. 6 of the Health Insurance Act the amount is 24.0 million BGN. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2. Cost: The amount of EUR 3 204,7 million is estimated at EUR 3 204,7 million. BGN, or with 129,2 million. lv. In more than 2015, including for expenditure only 3,201,0 or an increase of 128,8 million. lv. and for transfers provided to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and to budgetary organizations that have concluded contracts for the provision of medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. BGN, or an increase of 0,3 million lv. In the framework of the proposed cost amount, EUR 3 201,0 million. BGN 2,877,4 million for current expenditure. lv. or 114,1 million. lv. in more than 2015; for the acquisition of non-financial assets - 7.0 million BGN, as well as for 2015 and reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent costs lv. This amount shall meet the requirements of art. Art. 25, Art. 26, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. For staff costs, the amount of 32,5 million is offered. BGN, which is by 1.5 million. lv. More than the same expenditure for 2015 and for the maintenance of administrative activities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ BGN, which is less than 1.5 million. lv. From 2015 In the amount of the current costs 2,877.4 million. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2016 are estimated at an amount of 2,809,2 million. BGN, or with 114.1 million. lv. in more than 2015 This amount shall be allocated by type of health insurance payments as follows: - health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (incl. For complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance, lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - sickness insurance payments for dental aid lv. - health insurance payments for medical-diagnostic activity - 70.4 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for home treatment in the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy in hospital care, which the National Health Insurance Fund pays outside the value of the medical services provided lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for medical devices implemented in hospital medical care - 80.0 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - health insurance payments for hospital medical care - 1 343,3 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - other health insurance payments as medical assistance provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems lv. The bill offers a balanced budget balance. The amount of the compulsory health insurance contribution for 2016 is 8 per cent. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill offer amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. On the draft, their opinions were expressed by the following representatives of employers' and responsible organisations: - The opinion of the Bulgarian dental union was presented by Dr. Nikolay Sharkov. He pointed out that the increase in dental aid funds of 2.5 per cent does not reflect the funds needed for a sufficient number of activities for health insured persons. The Bulgarian dental union does not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act with the reasons that the changes will end the contractual beginning and will take away essential functions of the negotiation process regarding the volumes and prices of the individual dental activities that have been negotiated between the BZS and the NHIF. - The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by Mr. Sasho Ganov. It was said that the Bulgarian Medical Union assessed as extremely insufficient the estimated costs of healthcare of 4 percent of GDP, which would lead to serious underfinancing in the sector. Reassignment of the funds provided for health insurance payments is also proposed as well as the possibility of dropping the regulation for those medical activities for which it is not justified. The Bulgarian Medical Union does not support the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. The opinion of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria was presented by the Chairman of the Management Board of the Association Mr. Vasil Velev. He voiced support for the government's and the Minister of Health's efforts to reform the health sector, with a view to the effective use of limited resources. There was also a recommendation to reconsider the concept of the limits of hospitals, as limits punish hospitals that are sought and preferred by patients, and the proposed new limitation mechanism, after the conclusion of the National Framework Treaty, creates conditions for the unpredictable and improbability of curative activities. After the discussion, a vote was held, which received the following results:..................... 11 MPs,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 502-01-88, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Dr. Daritkova, please submit the report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 502-01-88, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its regular meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 502-01-88, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Dr. Glinka Komitov, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations, of word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by the Minister of Health. He noted that the proposed draft budget of the NHIF for 2016 is in line with the possibilities of the budget macro framework in terms of financial constraints and aims to maintain the achieved level of health insurance services in the country. The Minister of Health briefed the MPs on the main financial parameters set out in the Bill. The planned revenue and transfers total 3 204 749 thousand. lv. The proposed amount of the health insurance contribution is 8 per cent, with the ratio of the employer's salary and the health insurance person for 2016 being 60:40. The planned costs and transfers total 3 204 749 thousand. BGN, of which 2 809 248 thousand lv. are for health insurance payments, an amount equal to 87.7 per cent of the expenditure and transfers under the draft budget. In 2015 an increase in the funds for health insurance payments is envisaged for: primary and specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance), hospital care, medicinal products for the treatment of oncology in hospital care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, to be determined according to the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act amounts to 316 620 thousand. lv. The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 has a balanced budget balance. The Bill proposes: changes to the Health Insurance Act, to the parts governing the powers of the Supervisory Board and the Governor of the NHIF, a change in the order to amend an element of the mandatory content of national framework contracts and a change in the calendar month of their entry into force, changes in the control and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with contracts. In a written statement, the NHIF Governor expressed support for the bill. The written opinions submitted to the members of the Commission by the responsible and employers' organisations were made recommendations for changes and the removal of some of the texts on the bill and in the course of the discussion was expressed support with regard to the budget macrogram for the following year. Members of the Commission have criticised the proposed amendments to the Health Insurance Act and have asked whether it will come to the payment of health activities carried out this year, with the budgetary resources foreseen for the next. In response, the Minister of Health pointed out that the proposed increase of the part "Actributions and transfers" "Everything," respectively, of the part "Costs and transfers" "Everything" under the 2016 Health Insurance Fund by approximately 130 million. lv. It will not be used to cover around 35 million. lv. NHIF budget deficit at the end of 2015 On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, No 502-01-88, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u29	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. On behalf of the applicant, it seems that there are no willing ones. Minister Moskov, you are here and at any time you wish, I can give you the floor. Dear colleagues, I am opening the debates on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 at first reading. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Kuchukov. You raised your hand first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The budget that we are now discussing is extremely important for healthcare next year. We all know that and we do not need to repeat it to each other. As in the discussion of each budget, two main points must be addressed. First of all, these are the quantitative indicators of the budget, but no less important is how this budget is implemented. As far as quantitative indicators are concerned, I wouldn't surprise anyone if I said that maybe there wasn't a person who was happy with the funds that were being made available to them. We are also not satisfied with the funds, although we are aware of the state's capabilities at the moment. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of Along with the budget of the Ministry of Health, there are 3.6 more. And together with budgets that go for healthcare through other departments, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, BCC, becomes 3.9 billion, which makes 4.5% of gross domestic product. There is a certain increase in this account, although once again we remain far away from the European countries last, by a percentage of gross domestic product that is allocated to healthcare. The next EU country is slightly above 6%. I accept that at the moment, given the difficult financial situation, these are the possibilities of the state. However, it irritates the fact that we all call for strict fulfilment of citizens' obligations to the health insurance system and, at the same time, with the Health Insurance Act, we have given the state an indulgence for another ten years not to be a regular paying agent to the health of the people. Most of the colleagues here remember that next year the state has to pay 55% of the minimum contribution to the large contingent people it provides. According to the World Bank's calculations for the normal functioning of our health care needs about 7 billion. 3.9 billion is much less than what is necessary for normal functioning. However, assuming that these are the parameters that the state can provide for the public, I would like to refer to the second way of implementing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. I'm not going to talk about the positive things in the Bill. I do not want to deny that it is quite balanced and foresees many things that should happen, and for many years it has not happened. I'm going to look at the weaknesses, as I see them, because I think they can be removed between first and second readings. The main problem that I think arises is the elimination of the contractual beginning of the functioning of the National Health Insurance Fund. In the Transitional and Final Regulations there are provisions that allow the Minister of Health to control volumes and prices of health services through the Council of Ministers. I am not a lawyer, but I do not know how legally it is possible for the Ministry of Health and the Council of Ministers, who are not a party to shaping the National Framework Treaty, then to correct it. On the other hand, however, this set-up eliminates something that has existed for 15 years. The contractual start in the functioning of the national health insurance system. The fact is that I welcome the willingness of the Minister of Health between first and second readings to talk about this issue and to restore the ability of word organizations to influence the distribution of the budget and the function of the National Health Insurance Fund in general. The second moment that disturbs me. During the whole year we talked about health reform. They accepted where controversial, where undisputed changes in the functioning of our health system. They were supposed to take effect from January 1st. We just found out they're coming in from April 1st. It's not fatal. But where are these changes in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund reflected? I didn't see that. Where is the separation of diseases reflected in a basic and additional package? The promise was that the main package would be taken fully with implants, with all the supplies needed by the National Health Insurance Fund and immediately. I didn't see that. How the complex service will be performed, how the satisfaction of patients will be assessed without being budgeted, I do not understand. The other postulate, which was adopted, is that more and more diseases will be exported to hospital care and thus will be unloaded hospitals. In addition, patients will be served under conditions that are closer to home, under conditions that require less money. This is great as a postulate, only the budgets of specialized and primary hospital aid have been increased by only 1 million. They can't take on much of the diseases that should go from the one who's been sick to them. It is also not clear to me how, while maintaining the limits of hospitals, I will open a clamp here: there have been reports in the media that the limits are dropping, but if there is money, which I do not understand at all how it can happen, and while maintaining the limits, and while maintaining the regulatory standards, how will even the division of packages be achieved in general and additional. When discussing the budget of the Health Insurance Fund quite rightly, it was pointed out that control must be deepened and made better. This is not a job, of course, of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but it should, after providing financial bonuses from strengthening control, be explained how this control from formal will become actual control, essentially control of the activity, of the results, and not control of the points and commas. Finally, I would say that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is balanced, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund could fulfil the function of health care, but the parliamentary group of the ABB cannot support a budget in which the agreed start is dismissed. Therefore, at first reading, we will abstain from its support, and provided that the commitments made by the Minister of Health are respected, we will support it at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Since your time is up, would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u32	Not yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u33	So far, not good. Thank you. The next person to declare a wish to speak is Dr. Emil Raynov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Hasan Ademov from the DPS also signed up. After that, if there's anyone else who wants to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! This draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 shows the complete failure of the government and specifically the team of the Ministry of Health in the field of health. What do you have in common? The general thing is that the Ministry of Health has two Deputy Ministers who are in the Supervision of the National Health Insurance Fund. This budget for the following year clearly does not reflect in any way so loudly proclaimed and announced throughout the year intentions for health reforms. The parameters are clear. I won't dwell on them. Naturally, it is not expected to significantly increase public funds for healthcare not only in the next one, looking at the long-term framework, but also in the coming years. Public spending, as always, is about 4% -- plus minus, that doesn't matter. Health, with this low share of public funds, will definitely lead to a deterioration in the quality of discussion and reduction of the opportunities for quality and timely medical care. This for the last time shows that healthcare is not the priority of this government. In order not to be naked, even in the Health Commission report, there was a replica that began the presentation that this budget of the Health Insurance Fund aims to maintain the level of health insurance services. It is eloquent enough that we will not want anything more to happen to the Bulgarian citizen next year. Naturally, I cannot help but mention that in next year's budget, we have an increase of nearly 130 million, and this increase is at the expense of insurance contributions. At the same time, health expenditure at the expense of the population remains one of the highest in the European Union. The so quietly passed report of the World Bank for the sector...................................................................................................... the Bulgarians personal funds for health care are already.............................................................................................................................................. All this leads to what, colleagues, to an increasing impoverishment of Bulgarian citizens. Even in this report there is another scary figure that every year 4% of the Bulgarian population because of the payment for healthcare and personal accounts falls below the poverty line. You'll say that's not important. In the presented Bill, colleagues, contrary to the expectations of all those who voted on the Health Insurance Act, the amendments, in the Law on Medical Institutions, we find none of the policies, none of the requests for reforms that were so widely proclaimed when the laws had to be passed, and the latter adopted the Law on Medical Institutions only two months ago. Even then, in the Health Commission and here in Parliament, we asked the question: will all that is being adopted find a reflection in the Budget Act for next year, with the clear awareness that a policy, if it is not at stake in the budget, will not happen? Then it was explained to us how all of this was pawned, all of this is foreseen, how the shorthand was written how the Ministry had ideas about the big things that would happen from January 1st. Alas! At the moment, we see that what we predicted did not happen. The package of subnormal acts is still standing somewhere in the middle of the day. Here and there are two, three regulations, which stand with design readiness on the website of the Ministry, I am obliged to admit it.. one of them is the Ordinance on Packages, but everything else is gone. It is also missing for valuation, as there is no result of the contract with the foreign company that was supposed to support this valuation. The firm took the money, but somehow we haven't seen the result yet. We're hoping to meet him. There are absolutely no actuarial estimates in the Cashier's Budget Project for next year. Read about how much the basic package will cost, estimates of how much the extra package will cost, absolutely not. There is nothing else very important about future new activities that come next year. These are the use of the new high-tech equipment, the famous cyber knives. You know, we didn't have any until now. Now we're going to have four whole, with a European average of one in ten million. citizens. You remember the linear accelerators that were purchased, for which the administration of the team of the Ministry, only a check-in at a hospital...................the linear accelerators are standing, but the team that has to work with them is no longer there. Administrations on the fact that from 1 April will cover the insulin pumps next I will talk about this sacral date in the Project Budget April 1st. The Bill envisions an autonomy of the regional health care banks, i.e. supervision, the Central Management Fund, will distribute the money under the Regional Health Fund, and they will now distribute the money down, only in the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Act said that up until now the National Health Card, the Regional Health Cards had to be present. There is no such thing until this point, so I will be very interested in the district health registers, without this initial information, on what criterion they will allocate the funds down or allocate them on the basis of other criteria, which I do not dare think would be so. It is very interesting that in this Bill, despite the loudly proclaimed, how from January 1st there will be no limits, there will be no regulatory standards, every patient will carry with him the money, demands, a package of research and so on, we see something to pain familiar - regulatory standards in extra-hospital medical care, limits in hospital care, that is, everything that has been promised loudly since January 1st, is gone. That is, once again, to combat overhospitalization, we rely on administrative methods or we rely on something very interesting, which I heard last week in the statement of a Deputy Minister of Health and a member of supervision that hospitalization had reached such levels of saturation that it would stop by itself. Colleagues, this sounds very interesting, but practically how it's going to happen, I don't see it myself. At the same time, since we do not have any measures to deal with this overhospitalization, perhaps some time and not by medical evidence, there is somehow no talk about the medicines, where we surprisingly found that the casata pays for medicines that have not been imported into Bulgaria. And before that, we were used to the fact that medicines are being imported into Bulgaria that are not allowed, but now there seems to be another such case. Something that is not said in this Bill is that the cassa contrary to the lines that were exactly one year ago at that time when the 2015 budget was adopted, when it was claimed that the next, i.e. this year, the cassa will have no oversale, no deficit, honourable colleagues, the cassa ends this year with a deficit. The numbers are quite controversial, but they're somewhere around 70 million deficit this year, unpaid items. I do not comment on the obligations we have to other cases in EU member states because of our citizens who are being treated there, who are also chasing 170 million. It's responsibilities, colleagues! These are obligations that can't go away. And I do not dwell at all on the notorious excess activity, which turned out to be illegal and priors have no reason to be paid. Since yesterday we have learned something very new that these payments, which are on social security systems for health systems abroad, turn out that someone obliged the state without having the right to do so. I'm asking: where is control? At the same time, in the 2016 budget, it is written that the funds will not cover deficits from 2015. I do not claim to understand finance, but that you will not pay some debts does not mean in any case that they will disappear by themselves will dissolve in time. There's no mention here of the notorious duties of the hospitals chasing 500 million. Of these, only 50 of the municipal hospitals, the rest are of the state hospitals under the expert management of the new management of the sector. And I would ask the minister here a question: is he not worried that in the last report, which was dated July, only 11 hospitals out of all have no obligations? Everyone else has sunk deep under the water. Everyone else is decapitalized. Or for the first time, we'll witness something new. The textbooks say that reform is being done for something better, to stabilise things, and here we may be witnessing the new one, that through reform we are carrying out a liquidation. If that's the point, then that's great. I didn't see a single word about patients, about the quality of the service. I thought there was gonna be a complex service, a complex medical care. The patient wouldn't have wandered off in separate episodes, but he would have been put into a complete movie, maybe a series, hopefully not Latin. And at the end, we get there as we go to the more attractive things and why we won't support the bill. The famous practice with Transitional and Final Provisions continues to change basic laws. Reference: With the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Budget of the Cashier, we are once again removing the contractual start of the contract between the Cashier, the public institution and the word organizations. I say again. The first attempt was in early 2010. There was a minister Djankov, you remember, who would value in the Ministry of Finance and so on and so on and so on. And this year, when the Ministry's team put into the Health Insurance Bill to return the contractual start, believe me, colleagues, this was one of the decisions that were voted on, as they say, 110% Anblock of all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u35	You were against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u36	No! Check it out, Mr. Secretary. We were about to. And what was the surprise when we now see in the Budget Act, a few months later, that it was dropped. In no case do I want to make associations with the elections and from now on this is no longer necessary, but there is something even more important here. Dear colleagues, this Bill is supported by the supervision of the Cashier. There are two ministers from the minister's teams. He's been through the Ministry. The minister put him on the Council of Ministers. Supported by himself, that is, he agrees. Yeah, well, we're seeing a split here. I don't want to use the medical term for that word. Just two months ago, we voted on the Law on Hospitals, where it was claimed that things would happen from January 1st. Now this same team, this same minister, is bringing us something else. Well, it's not gonna happen since January 1st, so we're offering it to happen from April 1st. I do not want to stop on the date of April 1st and on what it is a winner in Bulgarian folklore, but the minister himself blames his bill adopted two months ago. He's accepted, now he's saying, "No!" It's not working. I mean, with this bill, the minister blams himself. And without April 1st, no one believes you anymore, Minister. It's human not knowing the results of the games, but not realizing the responsibility of the position you hold, that's unforgivable. This bill, honourable Members, is even worse than this year, for the simple reason that this year, with the update, at least everything was paid off to start afresh, and this year the cassata ends with a deficit. Once again, I repeat what I started with: this Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, this Project, I hope it does not become a law, is the Law of the status quo, a Law demonstrating a complete refusal of reforms and proving the apparent failure of a team, the team of the Ministry of Health. BSP naturally cannot support such a thing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u37	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Next is the speech of the national representative Hasan Ademov of the DPS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Minister! At our attention today is presented the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016. We in our parliamentary group called this budget butaforen, which in other words means something false, deceptive with its appearance, which somehow mimics the original. Before I express our attitude on the proposed project, I would like to say a few good words, however, to the importers in the face of the Supervisory Board and the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund. The motives of this Bill are presented in a very precise way, which deserves attention. The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016 instead of encouraging the achievement of clearly defined health objectives, pursues only pre-set fiscal parameters. Here are some of our notes, the other part will be taken care of by the other Members of our parliamentary group. Firstly, the proposed budget does not correspond in any way with the intentions for reforms. There are no actuarial estimates of the basic and additional package. There are no estimates of prices and volumes of new high-tech activities. He has no idea of financing the notorious complex treatment. There are no national health card and regional health cards designed to follow the needs of medical activities. There have been no final adoption of nearly 10 regulations resulting from the adopted Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act. Dear Minister, you have a majority, even you claim it is stable. There is no obstacle until the beginning of the budgetary procedure to adopt all laws and regulations. I hope that there is no opposition in the Council of Ministers that in any way prevents the adoption of the regulations, so the responsibility is entirely yours for launching a budgetary procedure without it being legally secured by the relevant regulations. Secondly, the gap between the budgetary framework and what will possibly be negotiated in the National Framework Treaty. The budget is year-round, the National Framework Treaty will only operate within nine months from January to April one inertial option, after April 1st with possible agreed volumes and prices. In practice, this is an update of the budget that we are about to adopt now. What is offered to us is a budget in two parts... an absolute precedent in the 15-year history of the National Health Insurance Fund. We are asked to vote on the framework, the rest is in style: We will see later! It is not clear by what flexible methodology the directors of regional health insurance funds will redistribute volumes of cases in which there is no execution of volumes to others in which there is overexecution. This requires additional software, additional qualifications are needed and everything else related to this redistribution. Unfortunately, to date, that's gone. A few words about the macro framework of the National Health Insurance Fund budget. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have no claims about the total amount of funds, as they say: This is what colleagues from the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund acknowledged. There are at least nine reasons why we believe that the revenues in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund are reduced. First of all, you are predicting growth in gross domestic product within 2.1%, which means that this in turn leads to growth of the employed, respectively in the Draft Budget of State Social Security You have said that these are nearly 10 000 more insured persons for 2016, and nearly 30 000 more than in 2015. The minimum social security income is agreed with an increase of 8.6%. The average insurance income increased by 30 BGN. The minimum wage increases to 420 BGN. The minimum pension for internship and age increases even with the small BGN 3,94, however this means 80 million more revenues in the budget of the state social security, respectively a larger amount of the average pension, respectively greater revenues in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Lower unemployment rate. Only under the Human Resources Development Operational Programme, note, are open schemes and measures for 560 million, with about 170 million due to be paid out in the next 2016. lv. Not to mention the other operational programs. You know that one of their goals is to increase employment, which means, in other words, increasing the number of employees, respectively, increasing the funds to be entered in the National Health Insurance Fund funds. The cost of education increases by 5.7%. You know there's talk of starting salaries of 70 leva. more, and that means that there are additional reserves in this regard as well. Next, an increase of between 6 and 10 percent in social assistance and care systems, in the National Revenue Agency, in the Office of Customs, in the Emergency Aid Office by 20%, as you have repeatedly stated, Mr. Minister. These are all reservations in the National Health Insurance Fund budget. It is obvious that in addition to the planned reserve, the Cashier's Supervisory Board is willing to reassign and re-execute the revenue portion. Let us hope that this will become transparent with the participation of the word organizations. Are there risks to the financial stability of the proposed budget and where can this pressure on the fiscal programme come from? First of all, as Mr. Minister said in the Committee on Health, the budget for this year between 35 and 37 million will at least be transferred to the next year, to the next budget. Secondly, the hospital's obligations are around 420 million. lv. Just don't tell me that the National Health Insurance Fund pays medical work, not duties, and a large part of these overdue debts are due precisely to underfinancing of this particular medical activity. If private court contractors start selling the property to debtors, then we will have a pre-financing budget, but we will have no medical institutions to implement this pre-financing budget, and you are well aware of that, honourable Members. Next, the obligations to European medical institutions under the compensation schemes in kind are around 160 million for this year and about 74 for the following year. On a cash-based basis, note, for 2015 according to information from members of the Supervisory Board 850 million have been paid for medicinal products. You know that there are still a month and a few days to the end of the year, perhaps this amount will be even greater, and the 2016 budget for medicinal products provides for 750 million more than 100 million difference will hardly be compensated by the negotiation of concessions or something provided for in the Law. In addition, the reported monthly hospital aid implementation in 2015 was around 130 million. BGN, which makes an annual cost of a billion and a half for the next year, and the funds provided for by this pen are nearly 160 million less. I hope the restructuring enables this budget in hospital care to be implemented. All these objective facts, not assumptions, cause us to be concerned about the financial stability of the sector, with all the resulting consequences. Those who support this budget take responsibility for the health of Bulgarian citizens. A few words about the cost structure. There should have been at least a little effort here and a reform approach for a change in the ratio of extra-hospital hospital care, because extra-hospital assistance allocated 20.5 percent of the expenditure in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund: for medicinal products of 27 percent, much more than the average rate in this regard in European countries; for hospital care of 47.8 percent. Notice, for expensive hospital care, the most funds are allocated, despite the assurances that some of the activities in hospital care will be transferred to extra-patient care. That is why we should have seen greater efforts to support outpatient assistance. Unfortunately, the amounts that are envisaged are perfectly symbolic. To conclude, our attention is offered a budget that looks like a budget, but is not a real budget, but a pseudo budget in two parts. Secondly, it looks like a reform budget, but without reformist content. That's why we in our parliamentary group called it a butaphorical budget. And his real name is a failure of one year's efforts and push, a failure to talk about reforms and chaotic climbing up the ladder, which, as a rule in this sector leads down, unfortunately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u39	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Minister Moskov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will take the floor and I promise that I will be brief in order to bring in some additional motives from the point of view of the opportunity to make an informed decision. Thank you for all your suggestions. They were expressed during the meetings of the Health Commission. A serious part of them is accounted for. A few words on the macrogram. The draft budget submitted by the Council of Ministers to parliament provides 129 million. lv. more as income, respectively an opportunity for expenditure for the Health Insurance Fund compared to last year, i.e. with this year, which is an average increase of 4.2%. This money does not come from the air or some blind redistribution that tells us what is a priority and what is not. It is related to clear sources of income in the way that we have discussed them together and you have voted them out. About 42 million come from an increase in the commitment of the state, which is part of the gradual commitment. Here I open a clamp. The story of how correct it is and how incorrect the state has always been a bit controversial. If I have to defend a political thesis, I would say that today's country is 5% more correct than any former state. This is on a clear schedule, adopted by you, in which way the state will express its correctness. It is a very separate question what is the correctness of the state, given that it does not spend its own money, but taxpayers' money. So we increase the cost of taxpayers' money by 5% each year for healthcare. This is essentially a hidden increase in the health contribution. We are all aware that this should happen in terms of the social and demographic structure of the population. In other words, some of these 129 million are through this source on the basis of Parliament's decision to increase the state's contribution, and the second part is from the increased collection of health contributions on the basis of changes in the Law and the different regime of reimbursement of health insurance rights, which will be valid from the beginning of next year. It's a really high collection rate. Mr. Ananiev is here and can confirm that. So there's a refraction of the poor collection curve. We are talking about philosophy, existence or lack of reforms. Let me remind you of the philosophy with which the budget was submitted last year. Let us not forget that at the end of last year he suffered a two-fold update and reached the figure of nearly 400 million. Let everyone look at their own actions in the years, because when you have made a budget that needs to be updated between 350.400 million at the end of the year, something has gone completely wrong with the budget. I don't know what I'm doing, but I know I wouldn't allow myself to put in a budget that I know will be updated by 400 million. lv. at the end of the year. This is an essential part of the budget at all. So any conversation about actuarial readings with people who have imported and supported this type of budget, for me these people are deprived of a sense of their own memory. But to recall what happened at the beginning of the budget procedure last year. Then, on the basis of the only possible philosophy, based on the start of a negotiation process between the Doctor's Union and then the Cassata's leadership, we had to enter into the philosophy of strict limits, i.e. the administration of these costs. To remind you, from the initial version of the Cashier's reserve with a parliament decision, practically two thirds of this reserve were unblocked at the beginning of the year and distributed by individual feathers. They were 170 million for hospitals, 5 million for medicodiagnostic activities, 10 million, 5 million... This is what you did as MPs at the beginning of the year, i.e. clear parameters that clearly shape what structures are and what systems have by the end of the year within the limit. So we told the hospitals, you have that kind of money by the end of the year, put it on a 12-month base. This was the philosophy of the achieved framework contract and the agreement on prices and volumes. Now in the case of the quoted numbers, whether it is accidentally or intentionally missing the fact that within the proposed budget of the Casa there is a reserve of 316 million. BGN, which budget in the distribution of the respective feathers will make the difference both in the hospital aid and in the way of spending in hospital care and in the policy in terms of medicines. All this has to do with regulation, because what was related to the parliament's commitment, he accepted it. Let me bring some clarity. The entire legislation relating to the obligation of the Ministry and the Government to draw the regulations out of the laws that you have voted are on the schedule recorded in the respective legal regulations. I can tell you exactly what this is about. Decree No 40 before the second reading of the budget will already be a fact with a decree of the Council of Ministers because the public discussion is over. On the one hand, you say: The state is slowing down, and on the other hand you say: You are violating the contractual beginning. The contractual beginning requires that the opinions of the word organizations and all stakeholders in this debate be heard, accepted and taken into account where the main policy is followed. The final opinion of the word organizations under Regulation No 40 was received at the end of last week. This week the Ordinance will be on its way to the Council of Ministers and next Wednesday a decree of the Council of Ministers will be voted, as stated in the Law. The regulation on criteria for payment of medicines for home treatment next Wednesday expires the public discussion. There is no need for a procedure in the Council of Ministers. Coming right up for publication and action. There are a number of things you have met during the public discussion and you can clearly find out what the differences are. The dispensation regulation is on the Ministry's website this week. There are also a number of other legal texts. The regulation on the methodology for the regional health card is already a fact. By the end of the year, as stated in the Law, the regional and national health card and all the volumes required by the clear expertly proven health care needs will be a fact. If there is any delay in individual areas, it will be linked to the fact that regional governors and representatives of local authorities were directly involved in the electoral process and this has slowed this job down in places. We'll make up for it. The regulation for HTS, which gives the different approach of the Fund for Drug Negotiation since the beginning of the year, the time for its public discussion expires today. The regulation on regulation and registration of the prices of medicinal products, if I am not mistaken, may have already been voted on by the Council of Ministers. The regulation of satisfaction also concludes its way of public discussion and again within a week or 10 days after taking all the opinions will be a fact. That is to say, in terms of the sub-legal legal basis, the Ministry and the Government implement and fulfil their commitments within the time limits guaranteed by the Law. A few words on the distribution. I made a small report to the Commission on the extent of the implementation of the Cashier's budget for 2015. When all the reports on the actual cash execution of the Cashier were taken into account by September 30th, the most pessimistic option presented to the Cashier's Oversight was, I repeat, the most pessimistic option was for a deficit within about 65 million. lv. ceiling. This has also been repeatedly declared to the Commission. Thanks to the re-execution of the health contributions revenue at the disposal of the Supervision of the Cashier for the distribution of upcoming payments, at the end of this month and at the beginning of December will be a minimum of another 20 million re-execution. These are the readings. Along with other measures taken, we make a scientifically justified forecast. I think I told the Commission quite thoroughly about the possible deficit to be transferred, not to be paid this year, and which will be between 35 and 37 million. I allow myself this freeness of 2 million, because there are certain specifics on which we cannot have a fully detailed assessment. Why I say that these 129 million, which is a net increase compared to this year, will not be changed in any way, in no way will they be part of the payment of these possible between 35 and 37 million. Firstly, because the revenue and expenditure part of the budget for the following year for purely accounting reasons do not take into account the receipts from the contracts concluded on the basis of the changes you have adopted for mandatory concessions of certain types of medicines with the pharmaceutical industry. To remind you that until now, for this year we have already concluded contracts, established bank guarantees and so on. The exact amount is 43 million. $700,000. lv. For next year the forecast is, and speaking of estimates, for the first time the Cashier has the opportunity based on the volumes agreed with the companies for next year, i.e. their estimates of volumes, their commercial claims, their commercial plan, their business plan to be taken into account in the formation of the drug budget. That is to say, next year, this discount will be a minimum of 65 million, whether it will be an increase in revenue, or a reduction in the cost portion, is accounting equipment. However, if this year we have a Casa deficit in the amounts I have spoken about, it will be covered by some of the money that is not reflected in the Draft Budget, either as a reduction in expenditure or as an increase in revenue. A separate additional reserve is that accepted in... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Yeah, it's reflected in the text section, but it's not reflected as numbers. That is to say, this is an additional reserve to cover a possible deficit of this year. Secondly, last-minute wage increases, remuneration in the insurance sector, teachers and other sectors have not been reflected either, because the time when the Supervisory Board accepted this was when you accepted the new levels of remuneration there. Thus, the system will have 129 million clean from the beginning of next year. The change is not so much about the amount of money, but I explained why, but the way they will be spent, with the reasons why the Cashier will pay them back and the way of controlling all of this. Where are the extra reserves in this budget? The first reserve is related to the already selected contractor by the end of this year. These are complex procedures related to specifics of our public procurement legislation for the centralised drug trading platform in hospitals. Before Christmas, we'll have the finished product. It will have a text period of about a month-and-a-half, that is, with the beginning of the new framework contract this will be a fact. Secondly, there is already a procedure for the task that the supervision of the Cashier has given is ready and probably next week the procedure for the electronic identifier will be announced. The timing is linked to the fact that within March we should already have a finished tested version for electronic identifier.. I do not want to go into details about the specifics of this thing. These are a number of things that will, on condition, lead to further cleansing and transparency of the way of spending in the system. That is, in one case, in which a centralised drug auction took place, it is clear that the price will be lower for hospitals. In the second case, provided that the identifier will identify our presence in a hospital or in a pharmacy when we are being prescribed a medicine, this will obviously lead to, at least, a lightening of the real volumes that are being handled. Otherwise, the overall philosophy is linked to the change in the fact that prices are not controlled or negotiated. It's part of the framework contract, they go there. What a price, what a clinical path. The register will buy volumes. That's the difference. Given that I have heard skeptical lines here, but because the World Bank's opinion is quoted earlier, let me say that hospital treatment volumes have reached some equilibrium point is also a conclusion of the World Bank. By the way, this is the conclusion and opinion of the Medical Union itself. Whether it is or not, but if we've reached this thing and the Cassata guarantees reached volumes at a national level of 2 million. 34,000. Hospitalizations will lead to a guarantee that Bulgarian citizens will have the required amount of treatment when they need to, will enter the hospital, and the way in which this will be controlled will, of course, pass through all these regulations, which by the end of the year in the legal term, I say again, will be absolutely ready. It's a contractual start.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u41	Minister Moskov, I'd like to ask you to navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u42	Thirty seconds, Mr. Chairman, and I'm graduating. I won't take the floor anymore. It's a contractual start. I accept all the criticisms that have been heard by both the word organizations and by the political forces here. The decision of Oversight on certain texts, which, according to word organizations, violate the contractual beginning, was linked to a guarantee that the Casa budget will be preserved as it is without entering into certain deficits, because the deficit means additional taxes for people to give something to people who perform healing activities. We were all convinced that these texts could be refined. Such a commitment was made to the Commission by the national representation between first and second readings to clear these texts, to have no doubt about the existence and continuation of the principle of contractual beginning. As an importer from the Council of Ministers defending the government's motives, I am prepared to ensure that this will also be the state's position in the talks between first and second readings. There's a lot more to talk about. Last time I checked, why April? You know, those who have been doing this much longer than I have, very well know that in the moments when the state and the Doctor's Union or the Casa and the Doctor's Union decide to conclude a framework contract with all its attributes, it is in the first text section, rather a little declarative, called the... contract, which is always concluded somewhere on the eve of Christmas. The real part of the framework contract is actually the Regulation on prices and volumes, the agreement on prices and volumes is always somewhere around the end of March, the beginning of April. This year we managed to make it through the whole cycle. If you remember the National Framework Treaty was signed at the end of the year, and in fact the real lining of the National Framework Treaty was at the end of March. The proposal of the Law suggests that the legal status should be brought to the factual circumstances. Nothing more and nothing less. Any speculation about the state's readiness with laws and regulations should not find a place here. Many new things are being introduced, in a very different way will relate to themselves the Cashier and its contractual partners. This also takes the time needed to preserve the contractual beginning. The state will be ready at the end of the year with all the regulations, when they explode suddenly on the whole system and this can really lead to tension. Both the Doctor's Union itself and the supervision of the Cassate, and we as a government stand behind the thesis that the actual situation for the conclusion of the formal contract of prices and volumes should be at the beginning of April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u43	Thank you, Minister Moskov. The word has the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Indeed, Mr. Moskov probably should have waited for all the MPs and then spoken, not to give a tone to the debates. It's a matter of protocol. And plus, and minus is a person to speak after four doctors, representatives of BSP, DPS, ABB and Party GERB. And I'm gonna do more numbers. For the health budget at the moment I have done my work in the Chamber are about 86 MPs, when the most important budget in the country is being looked at, which guarantees the health of Bulgarian citizens. However, when an hour ago I was looking at my proposal for a item on the agenda for reducing state subsidies for parties and some of these...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u45	Please, please, Mr. Enchev, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u46	There's a connection. For healthcare, you were exactly twice as much at the time, which means what are the priorities of the MPs in this Parliament. I will vote against this budget, that is beyond doubt. I hope the opposition Bulgarian Socialist Party and Ataka will cast a vote of mistrust and the first vote of mistrust should be on health policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u47	I remind you to officially stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u48	That's right on the subject, Mr. Chairman, and please don't interrupt me! The National Health Insurance Fund and the Minister just admitted it will enter with a very serious deficit in 2016. According to experts, it is 100 million. lv. For payment to hospitals, pharmacies and other feathers do not reach 64 million. lv. That's what the head of the patient organization said. More than 60 million. lv. The health care fund owes to foreign health funds. This was also exported by BSP colleagues. However, the opportunities to cover this deficit are only through a transfer from the state budget, but in the 2016 Budget Project, for next year, it is not intended to cover this deficit, as you know, budget 3 billion is set. The Commission therefore concludes For me, at least many parameters remain unclear, because of which it is difficult to plan the budget of the institution for 2016 and it is still not clear what the two health packages will include, as well as what number of hospitals will finance the Health Insurance Fund. It is also not clear why the minister used the vague term "useful identifier" before, instead of saying the most important thing, that it is about fingerprints, because the Bulgarian hospitals will also be fingerprinted, as the criminal persons in Bulgaria are registered, and, as you know, the pharmacies will also give fingerprints to the relatives of the sick. So, Minister Moskov, very please use the right terms, not those who mislead or mislead Bulgarian citizens. Here I should recall the sharp criticism of the budget and, I hope, between first and second readings to be respected by the Bulgarian dental union, which said in the face of its chairman that there is a criminal misunderstanding towards dental medicine and that for several years, and this is not respected in the budget, dentists want to increase the activity on this path for the age of 18 years with at least one activity. At least one activity! I repeat, between first and second reading dental medicine should enter very seriously, but with sums, with money, and not only with empty talk and wishes, because, I do not know if you know, in the Balkans, I am not talking about Europe, Bulgaria is the worst-standing state in terms of dental medicine. As for the payment, Bulgaria in the Balkans is the only country in which dental services are paid almost 100%. Even a country like Bosnia and Herzegovina, where there was a devastating civil war, dental medicine is 100% free. The same is true of the second Bulgarian state - Macedonia, where 100% dental treatment is free. I give you two examples that show what criminal indifference there is in this matter. I hope, for the third time, dental treatment between first and second readings will come in. I would also like to draw attention to the remarks made by the President of the Bulgarian Medical Union, who said that there are very serious remarks to the redistribution of funds in hospital and outpatient care, because, according to him, illegal texts are being observed, which aim to completely remove the word organizations from the negotiation and control process. The good news here is that Minister Moskov has promised that these paragraphs, namely § 10, will be dropped between first and second readings if, of course, he has not given up this good intention already. Let me finish with something very important: according to the World Bank data, which is very often quoted, just now and Minister Moskov quoted it, but he does not quote something very important from the World Bank. 60% of the health services are paid out of the pocket of the sick, and only 40% of the public funds are referred to the National Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry and the relevant hospitals. In the opinion of many experts, the division of diseases into two packages has its discriminatory...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u49	Would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u51	Please extend the time proportionately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u52	He has no right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u53	You don't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u54	I just wanted to finish with this, if I may?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u55	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u56	Dividing two packages is discrimination against the sick in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u57	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov is specified by the Chairman Ivan Ivanov.]] You're changing your mind. You have an opportunity to speak. I'm taking turns with the parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you misunderstand me. I had a request for a statement. Dear Minister, honourable Members, I can't help but think when this tribune speaks frankly untruths, lies, not to say a more demanding definition of bullshit. In fact, what is it good to know the public, what is it good to know you honourable Members? Perhaps some of the pre-speakers would very much like to return the Oresharski government and once again the Health Insurance Fund to end with a deficit of 400-500 million. lv. Perhaps some would very much like to return to that dark time, where payments to hospitals were stopped, hospital services, payments to oncological ones. Obviously this is very profitable for some people because the deficit for years, within 400-500 million, is paid not by anyone else, namely those poor people, whom some here are supposed to care for and try to protect them. What, though, is the truth? The truth is that a parliamentary group in the face of the DPS and other such support, for more than half a year, has been sabotaging the adoption of the Health Insurance Act. Thanks to this sabotage and these modest 35 million, with which the Cassata ends as a deficit, would now not exist because half a year was working on the old schemes, set by the vicious practices of that triple coalition BSP, DPS and Ataka. If the Law had been adopted, as planned February-March month, this deficit would have been melted. The facts are indisputable, and when the facts speak, the gods remain silent. Huge collection of health insurance contributions. Let's move on. For the first time in years the Health Insurance Fund ends with a minor deficit. You're nothing! What's more, we should...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u59	She also graduated with an excess deficit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u60	Don't call! Please, take a look at my colleague Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u61	Continue, Mr. Bayraktarov. Please calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u62	For the first time in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund there are positive changes which we have made so much effort for: an increase of 80 million in the collection of health insurance contributions, and in the Commission I even said that there is a reserve, God forbid it should be fulfilled. I'm sure it'll be overrun in this direction. For the first time 700 million are being allocated. lv. for outpatient medication. In this regard, I will open the clamp that for the first time so much money is being allocated to the cancerous Bulgarian citizens. For the first time! For the first time free medicines are provided, and this, notice, makes it a right-wing government, free medicines for people suffering from cardiovascular diseases. Is that bad? Is that what you're complaining about? For the first time, there is maximum control over spending. Don't you want that, too? We will therefore support this budget in the first vote. We have made our observations to the Commission. I hope that they will be accounted for, but for the first time there is a budget through which there is a policy for the benefit of the Bulgarian people. Naturally, I also wish things would happen much faster, and I would like to make some efforts in terms of demonopolitization of the Health Insurance Fund. [[single applause from DPS]] Because this is the right way, and we're going to work this way. For the first time, it is envisaged to develop a clinical path to provide diabetic children with insulin pumps. Where are the social thinkers, the left thinkers who haven't even moved a finger for years to think about this thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u63	Then there were no pumps.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u64	So when someone comments, it is good to prepare well, to learn to read the numbers correctly, and not to develop another dose of populism, because it does not help in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u65	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? I can't see. As there are still a minimum of three people who wish to speak, I declare a recess. At 12:00 we continue the debate on the bill. Colleagues, just to remind you of a message that relates to the holiday: On the occasion of 100 years of the First World War and the Liberation of Macedonia at 11.30 pm in the Northern lobby of the National Assembly will be opened the photo exhibition "The Great War 1915" in 1918. The exhibition is titled "Macedonia" behind the front and is under the patronage of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr. Krasimir Karakachanov. You're all invited to the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u66	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. The word for speech is Mr. Valentin Pavlov from the group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The NHIF budget is undoubtedly one of the most important budgets for our country. We are all very concerned about the health of the Bulgarian population, about healthcare as a whole. We all know that there is nothing more important than health, but what happens and what we hear from this tribune, especially from the opposition? A budget that was a complete failure, a budget that was a butaphory was insufficient, was not well thought out and almost from January 1st in Bulgaria the health care will not have healthcare, almost the hospitals will be closed. Certainly, colleagues, there are people in this room who say that some of the indicators for certain medical activities are inadequate, hospital, dental and so on, or others are higher than others. There are activities that are increased compared to 2015 by two and a half percent, and others that reach over 15%, but ultimately this budget is in line with the country's budget macrogram. Today we will vote at first reading the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund. We of the Reformation bloc will strongly support this budget. Of course, between the two readings, we will submit our proposals to change some of the texts with which certain remarks have been made in the texts so proposed. During the debates in the Committee on Health, we have been briefed on the opinions of the word organization, we have heard their concerns, we have heard the opinion of the Ministry of Health and the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. It has also been clearly stated then, and now from the National Assembly's stand that all these concerns will be commented and some of them adjusted between the two votes, but in order for all these steps to take place, we need to support the NHIF draft budget together today. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not speak of this tribune only politically and populistically, let us show real concern for the Bulgarian population, for Bulgarian healthcare and support the budget of the NHIF for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u68	Thank you, Dr. Pavlov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech has the people representative Georgi Gokov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Please extend the time proportionately to all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The state of health is catastrophic. The system works inefficiently and is highly bureaucratic, and corruption is very high. There is no real and equal access to quality education for almost one third of the Bulgarians. This condition is seen by every impartial Bulgarian citizen. By carefully analyzing the budget of the Health Fund for 2016, I see a budget of the status quo in which there are no policies to improve this catastrophic state. I find that, according to this budget, health is hardly a priority for the government. If importers say otherwise that their health is a priority, I will define this as cynical. In the budget, I see policies that greatly worsen health functions and cause public damage rather than a solution to health problems. I therefore argue that this budget does not stand for a good social strategy, but rather the opposite, it supports controversial social practices. On top of that, the budget was published late enough, of course, because of the elections, but in violation of the Law and budgetary traditions. In this way, serious public discussion and legitimate criticism were avoided. Moreover, the opportunity to be consistent with public attitudes and expectations. With this budget and with the talking on it there is an attempt to instill Bulgarian citizens in several things. Firstly, that health money will be more, secondly, that health reforms continue and, thirdly, that healthcare is a priority for the government. The budget repeats the revenue and expenditure of last year with minimal, minor increases, except for the money for the medicines. However, in this drug policy that currently exists, it leads me to believe that there is a more massive drain of funds from the Casata, which is 3.6 billion for healthcare, or that is about 4% of gross domestic product at an average of 7.3% for the European Union. When a country raises its standard, as the government says, it is necessary for government spending to increase, especially in the areas of education and healthcare. In other words, the higher relative share of public expenditure, as a percentage of gross domestic product in these areas, is a guarantee of improving the well-being of the nation in a given country, and this is not an approach and healthcare is only a priority of fairy tales. By simple accounts about 500 BGN, or that is 250 euros, is per person per year for health care, unlike the other countries in the European Union such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia - all from our rug, the funds are around 1000, 1200 euros. This results in disproportionate private costs for people who are insured over 50%, and perhaps 60%, with an average of less than 28% for the European Union. Once health insurance is paid, the second time people pay out of their pocket for health insurance. This reminds us several times in his reports and the World Bank. There are also limits for hospital and outpatient care. Once again, the principle will apply: "The more you work, the more debts you will accumulate, and the Health Insurance Fund will owe you, especially for state and municipal hospitals. And one more thing. What if you have a disease from the main package, but the limit is exhausted? The hospital brings you back and tolerates sanctions or treats you and owes you? There's no other alternative. And if there are limits to the basic package, then why is there a separation of the diseases of a basic and additional package, if there will be limits for everything, that is, everyone will wait or everyone will pay extra? And the fact that health reform continues in this budget sounds quite threatening, especially after the two basic laws adopted, the one about health insurance and medical institutions which are being appealed by the opposition in the Constitutional Court and I hope that there will be a solution to this matter as soon as possible. In this context, in this budget, I do not see any estimates of the costs of the so-called...... and additional packages............................................ and additional packages........................................... We must wait again to see the vision of this distribution, but we're tired of waiting. And the people got tired of it not being packages, it was not complex service, IDs, prints, all wonders, but results none. I do not believe to find a Bulgarian who claims that in one year the management of this government health care has moved an inch forward, even worse going down. From the very beginning, you have tried to master the health care fund, an organization that manages public funds. You didn't do it administratively. You are opposed by the opposition.. all in fact, part of the government, medical community, patient organizations, employers' organizations and trade unions, but you have not learned a lesson and with this budget again turn the Health Insurance Fund into a dependent institution, into a division of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. One more thing. In this budget, you are making an allocation of expenditure in the district offices, not in medical activities. Wrong. This, in addition to all other negatives, will lead to the regionalization of medical activities and thus to the regionalization of doctors and patients, and this is a gross violation of the principle of free access to treatment laid down in the Health Insurance Act. Guess who's gonna hurt this distribution the most? Naturally, small settlements where access to treatment is already difficult. And as the cherry of the cake in this budget, the transitional and final provisions, according to an old Bulgarian tradition, are made significant changes to the recently adopted Health Insurance Act. I'm saying that's because it's 27. Whatever the reasons for this, it is unacceptable, at least because only 2-3 months ago we adopted this Law and dealt with it long enough. What has changed in these three months is unclear. All this and many other things make me vote strongly against the proposed budget of the Health Fund for 2016. Thus will the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, unlike the group of colleagues from GERB who silently and stoically accept this butaforen, as Dr. Ademov called it, a budget and in all likelihood will vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Just to let you know that your group has a minute of limited time. I now give the floor to the MP Semir Abu Melih for a speech, precisely from the said parliamentary group of GERB. To inform you that besides you, Mr. Kardzhaliev is listed. Is there anyone else who wants to know? I won't. Mr. Abu Melih, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as every year, the time has come to vote on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for next year. Some support him, others don't support him. Basically, nothing new under the sun. Does this budget satisfy the needs of Bulgarian healthcare? The answer is, of course not. We need more money. Has anyone asked themselves the question, especially from the opposition now, why the same talk about the budget we talked about last year when you accepted your budget of the Health Insurance Fund? Strangely, the fact is that money is not enough, the administration of this money is not correct, you have a problem with one of your clinical aisles, one of their activities is not funded, the oncology has a problem, etcetera and so on. This whole thing comes from just one...... of two systems in the Republic's territory at once. One system is free, market oriented, in the sense that I choose who will treat me, which hospital I will go to; the doctor, the performer of this work and the nurse choose where to work, which hospital, what salary, even in which country in the European Union. From then on, however, the payer of the service gives you no choice. You have two liberal systems that work that can't be ruled out and a monopoly system. There's no synchronization between them posthumously. This system, sooner or later, this or the next National Assembly will bring it down. The Monopoly of your cassa is the problem. The Monopoly of your cassa is the problem! Not the Cashier's budget, not the Minister's regulation, not the law. The Cashier's budget is as much money as it makes the state. And the last budget was the same way. What's the difference? The difference comes from the fact that the Bulgarian already has a choice that no one here in this room can take from him. I have the right to go where to heal. When someone offers me a better treatment, I have the right to go and want it. Accordingly, I turn to my caretaker and say to him: "If you please, pay my bill, because I have been straight with you so far. Suddenly the caretaker says: "Yes, see now, the money is not enough! " - What are we going to do? What do I care, you've taken my money by now? You took my money, you know why I don't pay my insurance and you can't finally handle the money you took from me! Who is responsible for the state, the patient, even before becoming a patient while he is alive and well, or the performers? It's nobody's fault! It's just that this system can't work like this. There must be a diversification of payments. When you have 10 BGN, you go to a store and you want to buy groceries for 12 BGN, you have three options. One option is to borrow two levs and shop again. The other option is to reduce your purchases and make sure you get them into the ten levs. The third option is to steal half the money and with the other half to shop for what's left. It's not that big of a deal. At the moment we continue to administer a house of money to the Bulgarians. In a different way, we try to administer it, which better, who worse, who is trying to do it sincerely, but it is central administration of something that cannot be administered in this way. Any of you, honourable MPs, throughout this entire debate, all the experts here who have ordered to speak, have you mentioned the name of a patient? Have you heard from the patient who is using the health care system? I won't! Millions of billions, millions of billions! Orders the laws, regulations the laws, regulations the laws! Where's the user? Give him that right. There are five political forces in the National Assembly that are for the demonization of the Casata, there are two that I beg you, and they are the biggest to think about this topic. This is the path of all advanced countries. It's not the 50-60s after World War II. We have so much medicine, and that's the situation. People do. Every month, new inventions come out in this industry, something new comes up. It's science going, who's gonna pay for the new jobs? But I want them as a user! The cash register? The register has no money! Then why is he taking my money? Do you see what the subject is? Divergence of payment is nothing bad. If there is one MP who can prove to me that in demonopolising the Casa will not come up, I am ready to resign to the National Assembly. Mathematical account to prove. There isn't one! All economists know that diversification in payment is the right way to preserve an object. When you have a lot of money, put it in three banks; when you want more money, you work in three places and so on, you've got to diversify energy, you have to diversify everything in this society, so you can get the real service that we're looking for. What's our other option? This system can continue to work this way, however, we need to ban the rights of all downstream hospitals, you have no right to complain, what they do to you at the hospital, that's the end of it. That's it! That's what we're suggesting, is that what we want to do? Of course not. So I implore you to think of the Cashier's monopoly. And I repeat, let someone come out and mathematically prove that when the Casa monopoly falls, we will not have healthcare. Let's get one out of here. One! To score a mathematics and to say. "Behold, the figures prove that this does not work in Bulgaria. There isn't one. There isn't one! The budget of the Health Insurance Fund by 129.. 130 million more than last year. If there's more money, I don't see the logic of anyone saying, "I'm going to vote against the fact that there's a benefit to it is part of this messed-up system. Whether this administration will get better in the future, absolutely not! The system doesn't allow it to become a better administration. There's no way that's gonna happen! I will vote for the budget to get things going so we can see where we're going and where we're going. But the cashier's monopoly, understand, that's your problem! If this National Assembly votes the fall of the monopoly, even part of it is not necessarily entirely, you will see that it will remain history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u72	Carthage must be destroyed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u73	- What's the line? Here you are, Dr. Raynov the first line, you have one minute of the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u74	Thank you. One minute is enough for me. Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Abu Melih, it is good that you finally said that you would vote for the budget because I was worried about you as an opposition or as a governor? Finally, I was genuinely worried about your last sentence. We are going to vote on it and see how far we go. With such a thing, let's give to see how far we get, it shows that you are not convinced of where we will go. Do you expect to see how far the health system is going to go? How far can he take it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u75	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u76	Dear Mr. Raynov, you speak as if you were not in power at all. You've been driving the Department of Health here all year. [[BSP LB lines]] Did you even know where you were going? [[BSP LB.]] At least there's a theme here that's gonna happen. You disagree, you expressed your opinion. There's nothing wrong with that. But at least there's a theme. In the last term, did you, when you ran this ministry, have a theme? Was there a theme? [[BSP LB.]] Everything is as it was, and so it will continue. The important thing is that we are in power. I don't want to get into this conversation, and I don't want to mess with you. Understand, you are represented as a political force in the National Assembly to improve the life of the Bulgarians. I'm begging you, I'm telling you, think of the Cashier's monopoly. Somebody prove that mathematically this can't happen. The money doesn't come out. Well, I'll give up, it doesn't make sense! But I know that's the solution. Because it is not a Bulgarian solution, it is a solution of all the advanced holders of all who want their citizens to live on an average of 80 years. Let's get the statistics out of them so that they can live on an average of 85 years, what healthcare system serves them? I'm very interested! Right? That's how you see things. This system that we are currently working with has shown the results. That's it, she's exhausted already. Every year we want more and more and more of it. There is no one who would dare a politician who would say: "No, I will not give" because it is not right. But at the same time, she can't stand the thesis and she bends, she bends, and she's finally gonna burst. So what? We're setting up a crisis headquarters here to save the day. It's not right! It's not right, understand! Good luck in the next election, Dr. Raynov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u77	To speak, Mr. Tooncher Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to hear the opinion of all the parliamentary groups on this draft budget bill of the Health Insurance Fund. I was not convinced by the Health Commission, nor here by the Minister's words that this budget is the most appropriate, the most appropriate one in the end the most effective for Bulgarian healthcare in 2016. No one, I notice, does not contest the numbers compared to the previous budget for 2015 but really has the expectations of a small increase in certain segments in emergency aid, in drugs for malignant diseases, in hospital aid. I personally expected an increase in the dental aid segment because this sector compared to 15 years ago, when its share was 9%, fell significantly and is now 4.4 percent. We will make a proposal between first and second readings in this direction. Really, maybe that's the smart thing to do. The opposite would be populism, provided that for 8 years there is an increase in the budget for health twice, and the country's gross domestic product has climbed by only 20 per cent, it is unreasonable even for an opposition party to ask for an increase in the absolute value of funding in healthcare. I was impressed by a previous speaker that he used multiple repetitions for the first time, for the first time, for the first time. Nothing is the first time in this budget. Everything's happened, we've seen everything. The unique thing, if we are talking about some uniqueness and for the first time, is that all the opinions that have been asked by opinion organizations, employers, trade unions are negative. That's the unique thing about me. Everyone has a negative position. I will list them: Bulgarian Medical Union, National Association of General Practitioners, Bulgarian Industrial Association, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, National Association of Private Hospitals in Bulgaria, CNSB, Association of Healthcare Professionals. Only the NHIF has a positive attitude, and there is no other way, because literally the importer, albeit in a non-constitutional way, are the Supervisory Board and the Health Insurance Fund itself. So as an expression I will not give an assessment, but I know that incompetence is treated by reading and through long and thorough reading. It's not my style, and that's why I don't want to do qualifications, but there's no unique thing. In a meaningful plan are our concerns, which are why we will not support this budget of the Health Insurance Fund. This is the assessment in terms of strategic objectives and harmonisation of this budget with the so-called 'health reform'. It is no accident that I am speaking like this because our assessment really, as Dr. Ademov said, is a butaphorical health reform. First of all, as a common traditional practice already, this Bill has not been consulted anywhere and with anyone. If we ignore, if we ignore the word organizations, the employer, trade unions, then at least the MPs of the ruling majority should be aware of the fundamental problems it poses to solve this bill. Secondly, there is no guarantee of these reforms that we have been talking about for so long. Dr. Ademov came to that point. At the risk of compromising myself, saying I don't understand the matter, does anyone see an accent, does anyone see numbers talking about reform? Does anyone see a marker to paint, to give a characteristic of this reform and to trace this reform next year? I don't see any numbers like that. To a question in the Health Commission, the Minister of Health replied that you see, those over 300 million. lv. were set aside for reform. Presumably, money that's reserve, and that's under art. 25 of the Health Insurance Act should not be used for reforms. They are, as the Law says, for unforeseen and urgent needs and not for generating reforms and a formal exit from the situation. So this argument I don't accept. The tendency to impose humane-administrative, authoritarian style in Bulgarian healthcare continues through certain members, including this Bill, and also the ultimative situations, which, if not to blow up, will at least seriously compromise the dialogue between the countries in Bulgarian healthcare. I'm referring to art. 4 of the Bill, and I pay attention to the importers. The costs of NHIF are distributed between regional cases in health activities, and according to the ICA is in a completely different way. This way, this approach would first regionalise these activities. As a follow-up mechanism, there will also be regionalisation of medical aid contractors, and then, of course, the free choice of patients in this situation will be discredited. The most vicious text, where the handicaps will only mark them, is § 10 in the Bill. This paragraph, which corrected the Health Insurance Act, which was adopted, should remind you just a few months ago. For us, this way of correcting the Law is vicious. Provided that it was existential for the Bulgarian healthcare and for the reform, what requires three months after it was adopted not one, not two, not five, not seven, not twenty-seven texts to be corrected in this Bill? This is an incorrect proposal to the National Assembly for me. I call on the ruling majority to give particular consideration to this § 10. They're here, but I won't go into details, contradictions with the Law on Laws, lack of motives. Here are also the limitation, which leads to a very serious paradox if it is not corrected between first and second readings, namely at an exhausted limit falling into a paradoxical situation. This is a nightmare for hospitals. Refusal will be sanctioned because the person on the main package has not been accepted, and on the other hand, if he accepts a patient, despite the exhausted limit, the hospital will again receive a penalty because he will not receive his money. I draw attention between first and second reading these texts, if possible, if you think like me that they are not reasonable, to correct them. I want to end up with a message. I am particularly addressing the MPs from the ruling majority, according to the............. to GERB............................................................................ I was surprised by Mr. Semir Abu Melih that he still used 6-7 minutes of the 40 minutes of GERB. I expected no one to speak, and I would be very sorry for the lack, the deficit of this verbal force, which can be used by the Chairman of the Health Commission, and Dr. Ivanov, and Dr. Dobrev. It's a pity you're not getting up and defending this budget. I know why you guys can't get up. You realize he's in a lot of trouble. Even when there are no witnesses, you've shared it with us, but there's no way you can express these concerns out loud. My grades are sometimes even beyond my euphemisms. The opposition may not even be heard in relation to this Law, it was because of traditional attitudes, it was because of stereotypes in Bulgarian politics, it was even for an edification that they did not accuse you of conformism, cowardice and insignificance. However, you should hear the word organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria "The Bulgarian Medical Union, the Dental Union, medical specialists, trade unions and employers" they also do not accept this budget. Moreover, the President of the Bulgarian Medical Union said categorically in the Health Commission that this way of making a budget will not be accepted by them and cook including protests. When we get to this subject, that kind of tension is one of the few factors that I know...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u79	To increase the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u80	It's prolonged.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u81	Such tension is one of the few factors that makes the Peacekeeper of the state Mr. Prime Minister unhappy. I know that then everything happens. I also know from experience that it is not good for him to be unhappy for GERB or for the Bulgarian state. Please take into account between first and second readings for correction at least art. 4 of the Law and paragraph 10, if not all, at least Art. Art. 19, art. Art. 54, Art. 55, para. 2. Thank you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to prepare for a vote. [[Noise and excitement.]] I put to the first vote a draft budget bill for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016, inc. No 502-01-88, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. Vote 177 MPs: 117, against 45, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. First negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Boychev. [[Mister Peter Moskov is coming out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I voted against this budget of the National Health Insurance Fund because you promised for 2015 that the budget for the Casa will go along with your reform management programme. And if for 2015, Minister Moskov had an excuse, now for 2016 I do not see any justification for the lack of his management programme for reforms. The 2016 budget does not offer any of this. On the contrary, the aim recorded there is to maintain the levels of health services achieved in the country. I voted against the 2016 budget because this is another budget that generates deficits in the country's health system. I voted against this budget because it eliminates the contractual beginning. Moreover, we are signing an empty check to the Minister of Health, because basically, after 1 April all parameters will be renegotiated in individual contracts with medical institutions. Perhaps Minister Moskov needs these 3-4 months to see his dream reforms, which have come to changes in two laws. The Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act, which, notice, are in the Constitutional Court, will not be abolished and this could cause another chaos in healthcare in Bulgaria. I voted against this budget because there are no actions to improve the financial management of medical institutions. At the beginning of the mandate Minister Moskov found the hospitals by 410 million, at the moment managed to increase this amount to about 500 million. I voted against this budget for 2016 because there is not a single proposal and measure within it to combat corruption. On the contrary, once again, we are offered an increase in the funds for medicines - 750 million BGN or 27% of the costs of health care. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I voted against it because instead of proposed reforms, we are offered a model of administrative and centralized health management, in which the minister decides with whom and in what way to conclude contracts. [[(Applause and cheering by Bravo (BSP LB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Second negative vote, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u85	Thank you, Madam President. I also voted against it because of the lack of budget reforms. This lack is expressed in a severe anti-reformist cost structure, which shows the preservation of the status quo and does not take a single step forward! I voted against the imposition of command administrative, authoritarian style in healthcare, which ignores objective opinions on the state of the system. I voted against the ultimative proposals that make the dialogue in the system meaningless. I voted against the regionalisation of performers, which creates a prerequisite for feudalising the system itself. I voted against the frequent swings and inconsistent actions in terms of legislation, which are expressed in 27 amended texts only three months after the adoption of the Law. I voted against the ignoring of the word organizations, the ignoring of social dialogue, which is an eloquent assessment of the way this budget is imposed, but which will cause problems in its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u86	Third negative vote? I won't. Moving on to: First reading of the LawProject on the Budget of the State Public Procurement for 2016, No 502-01-87, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u87	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure to be admitted: Mr. Biser Petkov, Manager of the NSI, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Governor of the NSI, and Mrs. Antoinette Gancheva, Chief Actuary of the NSI.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u88	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 104 MPs: 97 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u89	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance under the State Social Security Budget Act 2016, No 502-01-87, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At a meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Mrs. Antoaneta Gancheva, Director of the Directorate of Public Works, Planning and Prediction at the NSI, and Mrs. Snezana Malakova, Director of the Legal Directorate at the NSI. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Donev. Revenues: The following policies are proposed: 1. The size and ratios of social security contributions are planned to be maintained. 2. The amount of the contribution to the Fund is maintained at the level of 2015. 3. The amendment and Appendix of the CSR shall introduce changes to the fund organisation of social security as follows: - a fund is created for the persons under art. 69 (a.k.a. - a right of free choice is introduced to change the insurance between the funds for additional compulsory pension insurance and the funds for Pensions and Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. - amended art. 21 as regards the transfers from the State budget to the Fund of the Fund of Pensions and the participation of the State in its financing with a transfer of 12 per cent on the sum of the insurance benefits of all insured persons; - no change is envisaged between employer and employee for other insurance risks, and they remain 60 to 40 percent respectively; - the minimum insurance incomes proposed in the Bill on the main economic activities and groups of professions increased by an average of 8.6 percent with an effect on the revenues of around 80.0 million. lv. increase. The lowest minimum insurance income is equal to 420 BGN. This amount is expected to be the minimum wage from the beginning of 2016; - the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 300 to 330 BGN. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). - retain the amount of maximum insurance income for all insured persons - BGN 2600.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for 2016 no contributions shall be made to the Fund. The maximum amount of guaranteed claims is BGN 1200. Amount of revenue and transfers 2016: The total amount of revenue and transfers is available at 10 046,4 million. BGN, or 413.2 million. lv. in more than 2015 In the context of the total amount of EUR 10 046,4 million lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or with 2 308.0 million. lv. less than 2015 In the Bill, the indicator of the state budget of 12 per cent on the sum of the insurance incomes of all insured persons for the year of the year of injection is dropped, which was 2,707,8 million in the budget of the DVO for 2015. lv. and for 2016 the amount goes to the indicator Cost: The following policies are proposed: - The required age and retirement experience for all categories of work shall be increased and a minimum retirement age for the persons under art. 69 CSR. - The update of pensions is made from 1 July 2016 with a percentage equal to 50 per cent of the consumer price index and 50 per cent of the increase in average social security income in 2015 by 2,5 per cent. - The minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age shall be increased from 1 July 2016 by the percentage determined under art. 100 CSR. - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is maintained at 35 per cent of the maximum insurance income. Article 3 is amended as follows: 69b in CSR, on the basis of which after 31 December 2015 early retirement pensions of persons working first and second categories of work who do not meet the conditions for retirement from a professional pension fund continue to be allocated. - From 1 January 2016, an opportunity to grant a retirement pension of less than 12 months of age is introduced and their pension is reduced by 0.4 per cent for each month of deprivation. - An opportunity is introduced to recalculate the pensions granted by 31 December 2015 with a reduced individual coefficient for persons who, by 31 December 2016, choose to transfer the funds from their individual accounts to a universal pension fund in the Fund. - The possibility of multiple choice is envisaged, but no later than five years before the age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the CSR, persons born after 31 December 1959, if they are not granted a pension for internship and age, to change the insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund 69 and back. - The possibility of a single choice of persons who worked under the conditions of first and second categories of work is envisaged if they are not granted a pension for retirement and age or early occupational pension to change the provision of a professional pension fund in the Fund. - The minimum daily amount of the compensation for unemployment is preserved - BGN 7.20. - Save the period from which short-term benefits are calculated in case of temporary inability to work for 18 calendar months, in case of unemployment and pregnancy and birth 24 calendar months. - The mode of payment of the cash benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. 5 of the CSR The three working days required shall be paid by the insurance provider an average daily gross wage of 70 per cent. - The period of payment of the monetary benefit for pregnancy and birth of 410 days shall be maintained. - The amount of compensation for raising a young child up to two years of age is preserved at 340 BGN. - Save the amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person at BGN 540. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market In the amount of the expenditure with the largest relative share are the cost of pensions of 8,740.0 million. BGN, or with 347,0 million lv. in more than 2015 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. or an increase of 65,9 million. lv. As compared to 2015 The cost allocation for the main short-term CSR benefits groups is as follows: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborable workers - 416,8 million. BGN, which is 110.1 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2015; - compensation for occupational accident and occupational disease - 8.3 million BGN, which is 115.3 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2015; - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth - 38.7 million BGN, which is 102.0 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2015; - benefits for raising a young child up to two years of age and for adopting a child from 2 to 5 years of age - 144,8 million. BGN, which is 95.6 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2015; - money benefits for unemployment - 324.8 million BGN, which is 95.2 per cent compared to the expected implementation for 2015; - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 17.9. lv. The cost of programmes, activities and social security services, support and employment is 73.6 million. BGN, or an increase of 2.3 million lv. Compared to 2015. The cost of staff employed by employment and service is increased by 3.2 million. lv. in relation to the amount of funds for 2015 On the budget balance. For 2016, the budget balance has an excess of 2.1 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The budget balance will be fully used for long-term loans from banks and financial institutions from abroad. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received:........................ 11 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2016, No 502-01-87, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We will now hear the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u91	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, allow me to make an additional procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Nikolay Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u92	Each chairman of the committee shall make his proposal for admission to his report. I shall put the proposal to the vote. There's no quorum, we can't let the Deputy Minister in the room. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u93	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill 2016, No 502-01-87, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 11 November 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Galab Donev and Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Ministers of Labour and Social Policy, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Finance, National Insurance Institute, representatives of social partners. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Biser Petkov. The draft budget of state social security sets out the following social security parameters: average annual number of insured persons 2 million. Seven hundred and 295 or 9450 more than expected for this year; growth of average insurance income in 2016 "4.4 per cent, or expected size 755,42 BGN.; average annual number of pensioners - 2 million 186,000. 245 or an increase of 7355; the number of average annual unemployed persons entitled to unemployment benefit 91 618 or a reduction of 7780 compared to this year. In the field of revenue, the policies relating to changes in CSR from July this year, starting in 2016, as well as the reserved amounts and ratios of social security contributions for the funds, are laid down in respect of the current legislation. The draft budget shall reflect the new structure and the new social security fund organisation related to the creation of the new fund. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. With regard to the transfers from the State budget to the Fund, the Pensions of the DVO shall reflect the State's outstanding contribution to its funding of 12% on the sum of the insurance benefits of all insured persons. The Law proposes an increase in minimum insurance income in basic economic activities and professions by an average of 8.6% compared to 2015 and an effect on revenues of around 80 million. lv. increase. The agreed minimum insurance benefits are for 48 economic activities and have an average increase of 7,50 per cent compared to 2015. For the remaining 37 economic activities where no agreements have been reached, an administrative increase in minimum insurance income of the same percentage has been applied. Because of the wagering and minimum insurance income equal to the bets of 420 BGN. the minimum wage rate since the beginning of 2016, the average increase is 8.6 per cent. The differentiated minimum insurance income for self-insuring shall be retained. An increase of minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers of 300 BGN is envisaged. At 330 leva. from January 1st next year. The amount of maximum insurance income for all insured persons at the level of this year 2600 BGN shall be retained. It is not foreseen to make contributions to the Fund "Guaranteed claims" for employees in 2016, with the maximum amount of guaranteed claims remaining BGN 1200. As a result of the implementation of the above-mentioned revenue policies, an increase in revenue by around 400 million is envisaged. lv. Or it's 261 million. lv. in relation to the expected implementation of the revenue budget for this year. The main expenditure policies laid down in the draft budget of state social security are the following: They increase by two months the required age and insurance internship to acquire the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and para. 2 of the Social Security Code. It is increased by two months the necessary age for acquiring the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the CSR 65 years and 10 months for men and women. A minimum retirement age for those working in the sector is introduced. The early retirement pensions of the persons of the first and second categories who do not meet the conditions for retirement under art. 168 CSR. Early retirement with a reduced amount of pension up to 12 months before the required age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code. Employment pensions shall be updated from 1 July 2016 by a percentage equal to 50 percent of the consumer price index and 50 percent of the increase in average social security income in 2015. The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age from 1 July 2016 is increased from BGN 157,44. At 161,38 leva. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received at the level of 1 July 2015 shall be maintained. BGN 910 Introduction of the possibility of recalculating the pensions granted by 31 December 2015 with a reduced individual coefficient of persons who, by 31 December 2016, choose to transfer the funds from their individual accounts to the Universal Pension Fund of the Fund of Pensions and Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. 69 "The State Social Security'. The amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age is maintained at 340 BGN. The amount of one-off aid in the death of a insured person shall be retained. The fiscal parameters and costs in respect of pensions for 2016: estimated average amount of pension per pensioner - BGN 331,62; growth of the pensions - 3.5%, at expected size for 2015 BGN 320,55.; Updating pensions from 1 July 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Seven hundred million. lv.; pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP..9.9%. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the Take a look at the amount of the total expenditure, including: staff costs of 51.7 million. lv.; alimony - 15.2 million lv.; capital expenditure lv.; Defence and Security............................................................................................... lv. The consolidated draft budget of state social security for 2016 is expected to end with a deficit of 4 billion. The Commission 200,000. lv. In order to balance the draft budget at zero, this deficit should be financed by the State budget in the form of an additional transfer to cover the lack of funds. After the presentation of the bill was held a discussion in which took part MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Georgi Gokov, Hasan Ademov, Dimitar Tanev. Questions were asked and comments were made regarding disability pensions, the ceiling of pensions, the size of the minimum social security benefits of farmers, the deficits of the individual social security funds, the reserved spending and income policies, the Swiss rule, the social effects of the budget on the various public groups and others. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 7 votes.... 7 votes against..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. On behalf of an importer, perhaps Mr. Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute? Do you wish to argue, to motivate the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft budget of the State Social Security for 2016 has been developed in accordance with the decisions of the Council of Ministers on the budgetary procedure and it reflects the policies and measures already adopted in the Social Security Code by you to amend and supplement the Social Security Code, which entered into force in August of this year, as well as the measures that have been in force since the beginning of next year. In the field of revenue, as indicated in the committee reports, the amount of contributions and the distribution between employers and persons insured accordingly shall be maintained. What has a significant impact on the revenue side of the budget is the increase in the minimum thresholds of insurance income in economic activities and groups of professions, which, compared to this year, is 8.6% more, which provides additional revenue in the budget for next year. The differentiated amount of minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons shall be maintained. As stated in the reports, the proposal is to increase the minimum insurance income for farmers from 300 to 330 BGN. from January 1st next year. I would like to point out here that as a result of these measures and policies in the revenue section of the budget bill for the next year, about 400 million have been laid down. lv. more income from insurance contributions. As regards the expenditure part and budget 2016, the basic expenditure shall continue to be for the payment of pensions, taking into account respectively the changing conditions for the acquisition of pension rights relating to increasing the required age and insurance service from the beginning of the following year with two months each and the introduction of an age as a condition for the retirement of the persons under art. 69 of the Social Security Code. The most significant share in the increase in pension expenditure is the envisaged update of pensions from 1 July next year under the Swiss rule by 2,5%. Also, the increase in pensions expenditure for the following year, which is around 350 million in total. BGN is also due to the year-round payment of pensions of an increased amount than this year due to the update, as well as the natural growth of pensions and as a result that the newly retired pensions are generally higher than the terminated. The envisaged flexible retirement related to the possibility introduced from 1 January of the following year for persons who do not reach one year to the total retirement age but have fulfilled the requirement of internship to be able to retire with a reduced amount of pension. As regards short-term benefits and aid, no changes are actually proposed in relation to the reference period, in respect of law-making periods they shall be maintained taking into account the change in the macroeconomic framework and the minimum wage for the following year. As stated in the reports, for the first time in 2016 we expect the budget of state social security to exceed 10 billion. BGN, like this 10 billion. 44 million. lv. expenditure in the budget for the following year shall be financed from insurance contributions revenue. 49,5% is the share of the income from insurance contributions, the rest of the 50,5% is planned to be financed by transfers from the state budget, which in their main part are to cover the capital needs mainly in the Fund "Pensions" and in the Fund "Pensions" of the persons under art. 69. Accordingly, the nominal amount of the transfer provided for by the state budget is increasing compared to this year, but in relative proportion this contribution decreases to 50.5%. As regards the amendments to the Social Security Code, which are proposed by the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Budget Act, they are reduced to changes relating to the implementation of the budget for the following year and also specify some of the norms in the texts of the Social Security Code. That's a shortcut. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u96	And I thank you for your argumentation on behalf of the importer. I open the debate, honourable Members, at first reading. Anyone who wants to make a statement? A second time, willing to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is very disturbing what is seen here in this Chamber. This gap between words and deeds in politicians, which I would call a little sharper political hypocrisy. According to the government's demographic question, unemployment and the state of the pension system are three of the most important problems in the country, and in the cases the management could not raise a quorum in the Commission, the specialized one, the Social one, in order to adopt this budget. You could not gather a quorum today to enter the Deputy Minister, and the Minister himself is absent from this debate at all. By your actions you show that these topics are not important to you. That is why we say that this budget is the budget of retreat and the budget of taking from people. I've heard some of my colleagues say that the Health Insurance Fund budget is the one on the status quo. Here even this is not even preserved the status quo, but is taken away: from mothers, from all who work and are provided for unemployment benefits, from all who are provided for a pension from the baby to the adult. Why am I saying this? First topic, the demographic problem that we all claim to be very concerned about and that we urgently need to take action because the nation is melting. During the budget of state social security, concrete measures can be taken to at least delay this process. Here's the opposite of not only being taken, but being taken away from the mothers, because the compensation for raising a child between one and two years is maintained at the amount of 340 BGN, this is its level since 2014, provided that the minimum wage of 420 BGN is raised. What does that mean? The workers will contribute more insurance for maternity benefits because the minimum wage is raised, but they will receive the same compensation as the one from 2014, that is to say you charge them more money, but you give them less. Those more who come home from future mothers are 8 million. 400,000. lv. The topic "Unemployment" is maintained the minimum amount of compensation for unemployed at BGN 7.20. It, colleagues, is determined, however, on a minimum salary of 240 BGN and you increase the minimum for 2016 to 420 BGN. My logic here is the same. People will pay more insurance for unemployment benefits if they stay unemployed, they will pay more money, but they will receive BGN 7.20, which is 53% of the line of poverty. That is, you get more from them than they pay now, and you give them the same BGN 7.20, which are from 2014. You take in more than two and a half million of all employees who pay insurance someday if they stay unemployed. Thirdly, the Fund for guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of company bankruptcy is no movement, also freezing. And the money accumulated there is held on a deposit, interest, and the state collects these interest rates into the budget. Here you take from the employers, but the workers do not change anything in payments. Once again, withdrawal of money from another group in this case by the employers who made those contributions. As for the pensioners, current and future, all fairy tales about a great pension reform that will reduce the deficit in the NSI and provide a pension of BGN 1200, you understand that it does not happen. Our prognosis that this is just fairy tales now shines into numbers. What about the current pensioners? Social pension increases by 2 BGN. The minimum pension becomes BGN 161. It is increased by 4 BGN. It's a minimum pension of $25,000. Souls. You give them 4 leva. The great promise of an increase. With a pension below the poverty line that you raise to 300, there are 1.5 million left. Bulgarian pensioners. The Swiss rule is, of course, 2-3 leva updating the pensions of the current pensioners. As far as future pensioners are concerned, you're taking two months more because you're raising their internship and retirement age for 2016. So you're paying them two extra installments. However, this does not guarantee them a higher pension one day, because the analysis of this sector shows that the NSI gives it in its forecasts that within a decade the deficit will not move, on the contrary, will deepen. And for 2016 it is increasing. What happened to the pension reform?! What is the effect on current and future pensioners? None at all! Perhaps in your speeches you will tell them the usual accusation against us: "The Socialists want to spend a lot. We raise money and socialists spend it. Now they're offering to raise pensions and benefits, but what about the state? The state will go bankrupt. Yeah, but no! See what you say in the big, state budget: For 2016 on the state budget, without including EU funds, there is a record 2 billion bet. 570 million. lv. for capital expenditure. According to 2015 these costs were increased by 1 billion. Seven hundred million. This is an unprecedented high raising of capital expenditure in recent years, and without at the moment being able to understand where this money will go, what will be spent. That is, if we bind the two budgets, through the budget of state social security, you take this is the budget of the claim by mothers working, from current and future pensioners, from socially weak and farmers, to give it through the large budget unknown to whom 400 million. BGN, you take from the poor and socially weak people to give probably to selected and close to few companies of power, which next year will spend 2 billion. 400 million! It's an expression of politics. Some of you in charge said that the budget was not policies. He was accounting. Mr. Kolyo, I quote. The budget is a high form of policy making. What you show as numbers and behind which we can read action, it is anti-national and anti-social working and young in favor of few chosen ones!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. There's a word for it, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I regret that, in such a quorum, we are listening to the debate on the adoption of the state social security budget. There are many things on this budget that determine our position of the parliamentary group and the party not to support the budget for state social security for 2016. In some cases, things are repeated that we talked about a year ago, starting from the most minimal things, about the minimum insurance income of farmers. Colleague Rumen Yonchev proposed a classification of the different types of farmers in terms of their turnover and the previous increase in minimum insurance income. Now there's an increase again, there's still no categorization. I think the regulation was from 2008. It is sufficient reason that in the 2016 budget of state social security we do not see any policy promoting birth rates. We at the BDZ have repeatedly stated that problem No 1 of Bulgaria now and for the next decades will be the demographic disaster. A lot has been said this year. There were questions to the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. We have such a deputy prime minister, but it's as if half of this cabinet's mandate will go under such a policy that nothing is done about demographics. I understand there's a round table scheduled on the 24th. But a round table with no funds put into the budget without a real proposal will only result in a year, a year and a half. Both this year and the next most likely there will be no budget update. It is worrying that benefits and family benefits for children have in no way changed for the better. We have spoken on several occasions in this plenary that a package of measures is being prepared, but family aid to children does not solve the demographic problem, that increasing maternity benefits does not solve the demographic problem. I would very much like to ask the Minister today, but he is not there, and you did not allow the Deputy Minister in the Chamber................... how will we help with the budget of the DOO, stimulate the Bulgarian mother to give birth more? How will we stimulate Bulgarian families to raise more educated and intelligent children in the country? Even demographic policy alone is enough for us not to support this budget. I don't know how to fix this emptiness between first and second readings. Yes, there is an increase in pensions, but it is not expressed in increasing purchasing power. What can you buy with two or three levs?! Our only hope was that with the structure of the cabinet Borisov 2 was the request for demographic policy of this government. I can say that for half of the mandate of Boyko Borisov's cabinet there will be nothing done for demographic policy. Our vote on the IPO is a clear sign that we do not agree with this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Any socially thinking person and MP should reject this budget for many reasons. I'll just list some of them. Indexing of the pensions Mrs. Cornelia Ninova well noted that the draft budget for the DVO envisions an increase of 2.5% for the next year. This is an increase of 5 BGN and for small pensions is perhaps less than 5 BGN. It's too miserable, even if it's reported as news. It is also said to be by the so-called Swiss rule, but the level is African, with all due respect to the African continent. The cost of pensions is indeed 9.9, let's say 10 percent of the country's gross domestic product. As I have already said, the indexation under the Swiss rule, which will be 2.5 from 1 July next year, when the minimum pension for internship and age will grow from 157 to 161 BGN. With 4 BGN, notice and the social pension from 115 to 118 BGN. With 3 leva. It seems to me that such numbers do not exist anywhere. I am not talking about the European Union, and I do not know another country. Perhaps the head of the National Insurance Institute, who is most competent in this matter, can make such a comparative analysis and correct me eventually, if I'm wrong. The pension ceiling will not increase and will remain BGN 910. One very important remark, the ceiling for a very thin layer in Bulgaria does not exist and this is in the Social Security Code, and you know that there is no ceiling for the President, the members of the Constitutional Court and the head of the National Assembly for them. I ask myself: why do we allow such a favoration of these three categories of civil servants, and is this not a social inequality? I answer myself: of course the answer is yes. The maximum insurance income will not be raised, as we understand from this budget, which, however, concerns the wealthy Bulgarians, the so-called property incomes, if I must be more precise, as some of us are expressing ourselves. However, it is changing, notice, the minimum social income for farmers, those who earn a living with both hands with hard work. This income, namely the minimum insurance income, will increase by 30 BGN. And it's going to be 330 leva. That is, the people of labor are burdened with a new burden, while those of the millions, the wealth levels, to be executed, are saved by raising the maximum insurance income. If you have to touch something, it's just their income. Another antisocial measure, the state does not bet, does not bet at all to increase the amount of compensation when watching a small child. That is, it remains BGN 340, and it does not change the period of its payment. The minimum amount for the daily unemployment allowance will remain unchanged. It's £7.20. There's-there's not for three sandwiches a day. Isn't that misery, social misery, and a spiritual one? What good is this budget talking, as I said, about a Swiss pension indexing rule? The increase is as real as a pack of cigarettes, and now with the new excise of cigarettes that you imposed, perhaps less than a pack of cigarettes. Finally, to add something that may not be directly relevant to the budget, but talks about social inequality, an outrageous social inequality, the time-supplier. As we understand, the additional time served for Bulgarian police officers will remain and it is right to stay. But on what grounds do you already know that this does not apply to members of the ministers' political offices, by virtue of legislation, that does not apply to other categories of privileged civil servants? I ask myself the question: isn't this a different discriminatory treatment of public sector employees in terms of paying the additional remuneration for acquired service and professional experience, and are not the statements of members of this cabinet anti-social?The cabinet Borisov No 2 who claim that the added amount of time served in the presumption should be dropped because it cannot be drawn, it cannot be understood who is better the young worker or the older one with experience, as this was discrimination towards younger workers? It seems to me that the opposite is the discrimination against people with experience, with professional qualifications, with doctoral titles, with scientific titles and contributions to the real economy. On the contrary, in any respectable state, in any prosperous private company, people with experience, with the so-called "time added" are much more valuable than those who are yet to enter the labour market. Finally, to repeat what I started with: I will vote against it and I hope to hear more arguments about this decision of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Hassan Ademov, from the Party DPS parliamentary group, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Petkov, honourable representatives of the National Insurance Institute! The draft budget of state social security is presented at our attention for discussion and vote. Of course, after the state budget, this is the largest budget. It's the first time the psychological barrier has been overcome, if I may say so, by 10 billion. The proposal for next year is that this budget be 10 billion. 46 million. Traditionally, importers, in the face of the National Insurance Institute and the Supervisory Board of the NSI, have prepared a tight and well-written budget, which is based on legislation in force, as well as the expected implementation of the State Social Security Budget for 2015. Dear colleagues, I said this is the largest budget for a reason, because its scope practically covers all Bulgarian citizens. As the poet said: Before I was born and after that, this budget pays for pregnant children, mothers working, pensioners, unemployed, pays even widowly allowances, that is to say, after completing the natural path of each citizen. Therefore, the interest in this budget must be greater. Unfortunately, whenever this budget is discussed, the interest in plenary is about what it is now. The main objective of the budget of the state social security and of each budget of the state social security is to improve the level of social protection of the insured persons in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, in the proposed project we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do not see such a change in the social protection of the Bulgarian citizens provided. It's not a coincidence that we named it a budget for frozen social payments, a budget for stasis. This 2016 budget is very similar to the 2009 budget. The first budget of the state social security of the then Finance Minister Djankov. When I say the then finance minister, I start to think that in Bulgaria there is a very interesting situation in which the finance ministers are the ones who in one way or another stimulate reforms in individual sectoral policies. The finance minister was the one who proposed changes to the Social Security Code, in particular in Title II of State Social Security at the end of last year. It is the finance minister who proposes changes in sectoral policy, defence and security. By the way, the health minister, not to stay behind, began to propose tax laws. Somehow, the powers of the individual ministers have gone wrong, but it is a proposal of the Council of Ministers anyway, so we can understand the positions of the individual ministers. For the first year, I repeat, the budget of state social security crosses the limit of 10 billion, of which 10 billion 8 billion. 400 million is the cost of pensions. Unfortunately, this budget is, as they say in such cases, a coppi-pass of budgets from previous years. There's a matrix at stake from the Ministry of Finance. It lists the numbers that the Ministry of Finance offers. There is no reason for us to see any change in the individual groups, in the individual layers of society. We do not see any change in policies towards mothers with children, we see no change to pregnant women, we see no change in terms of support, in terms of stimulating the unemployed, to those who, in one way or another, although they have contributed social contributions, are far from the insurance market and deserve unemployment benefits. We do not see any serious changes and support adequate to expectations after the pension reform and the group of Bulgarian citizens who are over 2 million. 100,000 Bulgarian pensioners. What is set in the draft budget for next year is far from satisfying the desire of the Bulgarian pensioners. I would like to say a few words about the macro framework of the budget and, in particular, the revenue section. According to the revenue section, the expected implementation for 2015 is nearly 140 million more compared to the planned plan and what is envisaged for 2016. An increase in the income from insurance contributions of around 260 million is proposed. lv. more than the 2015 implementation. According to us, these revenues, and not only in our opinion, but also in the social partners in the face of colleagues from the CST, are underestimated for the following several reasons. The growth of gross domestic product is estimated by about 2%, which inevitably leads to an increase of the employed and insured respectively, as stated in the State Social Security Budget Project with nearly 10 thousand is forecast to be more employed in the coming years. I suppose that these employed will be much more, because next year almost all operational programs and only from the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" are expected schemes and measures of 560 million. They have already started, and payments for next year only under this operational programme are intended to be around 170 million. BGN, which inevitably leads to an increase of the employed, leads to an increase of insurance contributions in the funds of the state social security. Given the fact that other operational programmes can make a contribution, we believe that at least 140 million additional revenue can be put on the table so that social payments can be supported at least with the amount of inflation for next year. The average insurance income, of course, goes up by 30 BGN, minimum insurance income, minimum wage, increased cost standards in education, increased remuneration in the social sphere. I can't help but mention a very strange fact here. One such extremely tight and non-numbered administration, such as the administration of the National Insurance Institute, is supported by only 0.73% of the costs. Unfortunately, for another year there is no additional funding provided if we exclude the 2 million. 300 thousand, which is expected to increase by 6% in wages in this area, but given the fact that the Fund was reduced by 10% last year, and this year is forecast to increase by 6%, or by 2 million. Three hundred thousand, we can imagine a rather sad and unjoyed picture. These are people with sufficiently serious expertise and they deserve more serious remuneration because it is no secret to anyone that since they became civil servants, they and those in the National Health Insurance Fund have virtually no opportunity at all, because the class of "qualification" is included in the overall remuneration and there is no possibility to increase the amount of remuneration they receive and a large part of the experts in this area are leaving. Therefore, my request is to make a little more effort and at least achieve the level of 10%, which is, for example, in the NRA, in customs, in emergency aid, is 20%, in education and so on. I would like to say a few words about deficits. All funds of state social security, with the exception of the "Trudy accident and occupational disease" fund, have a deficit. Despite the pension reform carried out, despite the strategic expectations for increasing the amounts of benefits and for the amounts of social payments, we are actually seeing some funds of state social security that continue to be deficitd. About the macrogram. This year, with the latest changes to the Social Security Code in July, in practice, these 12% state participation, as a special insurance provider, are already in the general deficit and this general deficit next year, despite pension reform, is increasing by 9 million. So it's written in the numbers that are represented by our attention. More than that. The deficit, which is the planned deficit on the state social security budget to cover the lack of funds, is 87 million more than last year. We do not see the strategic results, the strategic policies, we do not see the visionary application of the measures that we suffered in the summer of this year, and not only the summer of this year, in relation to the increase in age and internship for the retirement of the mass third category, of course, and of the sector On the one hand, we increase age and internship, on the other hand, the number of pensioners is increasing. Of course, the reasons are very deep. Here the arguments are in support of the fact that a serious cohort of the 1952 and 1953 set, which are retiring in the following year after the military teams, are a serious enough cohort that has an impact on this size, but increasing the age and the retirement internship had in some way, at least in the short term, to have its expression in the next budget. We have repeatedly stated that the budget of state social security and each budget is an instrument for implementing a certain type of policies. Unfortunately, the various social groups I listed just now find no support through this budget. In other words, this budget does not contribute to raising the social protection of Bulgarian citizens and it is not for a reason that we refer to it as a I'd also like to say a few words about disability pensions. The colleagues who put this issue in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy now do not see them, unfortunately, in this House. They did not support this budget and I do not know why they are not in the Chamber now to make their arguments. Several are the numbers that can be commented on the so-called invalid claims. Honourable colleagues, disability pensions due to general illness......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are 453 506 disability pensions due to a general illness from 1 January to September 2015. Notice, this is less than 5% of all Bulgarian citizens. The remaining part, the so-called Social-Culpritsy Payments, is 502 961, compared to the same period of 2015. There are 12 thousand less pensioners, these pensions rather because they are the so-called addition to the basic amount of the pension, amounting to 25% of the pension received. As regards disability pensions due to a general illness, they increased by 1650, which is virtually less than the increase of previous years. So this heated discussion that wheelchair pensions are increasing should take a slightly different look, because the facts about disability pensions say very different things. In terms of minimum insurance income. It is good that the minimum social security benefits of individual economic activities and professions are increased by 8.6%, but this is a discussion that is not final, because it is the European Commission that makes continuous remarks and proposals to once again look at these minimum insurance benefits and whether they do not negatively affect the labour market because, despite the fact that they are negotiated on the basis of objective criteria, employers are indisposed by this increase and especially by the administrative spread of the increase of minimum social income on industries and professions where such negotiation is not achieved. There is no way that I will not say a few words in the most difficult issue in my opinion in this proposed budget. The increase of minimum insurance income for farmers from 300 to 330 BGN. From our parliamentary group, we have repeatedly expressed our arguments, including with serious readings, I have them, and at the moment, we can provide them with your attention, if someone is interested in them, farmers and registered tobacco producers with the activity they are carrying out cannot realise income to cover this increased minimum insurance income. In other words, the money they receive to carry out the activity as farmers and farmers cannot cover even the insurance contributions that are provided for under this amount of minimum insurance income for farmers. So we are going to suggest that this increase is dropped. I also have a transcript from the meeting of the National Assembly of 2 July 2015, where the Minister of Labour and Social Policy states in the following text: "There are employees to whom we also understand. In my opinion, for agricultural workers, where last year we increased the minimum social security income, it should be maintained. So especially small producers and Bulgarian agriculture have the opportunity to take air and stabilize. This is the opinion of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Unfortunately, another ministry proposes these changes, which we will propose at second reading to be dropped. With regard to the maximum amount of the pension, of course, here the discussion is extremely difficult, as I have repeatedly stated that there is no true solution, there is no really fair solution. There's a less unjust solution. However, I do not think that with this approach of freezing the maximum pension, we will be able to stimulate, and the main obligation of one such budget is to ensure, especially those who are now starting their insurance service, to be stimulated to provide for real income. I would also like to say a few words, of course, about the minimum pension for internship and age. Unfortunately, the increase here is 3.94 BGN. It is something that is extremely worrying and worrying, even though on a national scale the amount of this payment is within 80 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u104	Mr. Ademov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u105	Mr. Chairman, I'll ask for an extension, but I'm done. I conclude in the hope that, despite the proposed budget of freezing social payments, between first and second readings, we will find opportunities to improve, on the basis of additional revenue, some of the social payments, which will approach at least the level of minimum expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ademov there was a bit of a commotion in your speech, it seems that the budget will go on water, and I apologize for that. - What's the line? I can't see. They signed up for a statement Mr. Georgi Gokov, as well as Mr. Kanev. Are there any other people? I won't. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, I will not support the Act on the Budget of the DVO for 2016, because this is once again a budget of the stagnation, of the freezing and of the validation of poverty. It reflects the entire philosophy and policy of the government in the social sphere. There is no way I am not going to start with the total gap between the proposed draft budget of the DVO and the Programme Declaration of the Parliamentary majority and the Management Programme of this government. Do you see anyone in this budget who is declared there, I quote, guaranteeing adequate levels of social benefits and social benefits and pensions, a sustainable increase in labour income and employment benefits, a positive increase in social inclusion programmes to support vulnerable groups in society, a reduction in unemployment, a countering the demographic catastrophe. No, nothing to do with the intentions and promises with which they came to power and with which this government was created. This budget sets low and inadequate targets. This budget is antisocial. This is not a budget of reforms, this is a budget of freezing, of stagnation, of stagnation. The political, economic and social conjuncture once again serves as an excuse, but it should not be so for ignoring the firm and public attitudes and expectations of a sustainable increase in labour incomes and pensions. I do not know how long the Bulgarians will endure the talk that the only solutions in the pension system, pension insurance are an increase in retirement age and internship and the freezing of income and social security contributions will stimulate competitiveness and economic growth? For a second budget in a row, it is evident that this government lacks even the beginnings of some long-term policies. Once again, we are witnessing partial and, for the most part, chaotic actions behind which we see again the philosophy of the absoluteization of fiscal and macroeconomic stability and again at the expense of the most vulnerable groups of the population. This philosophy was a patent of Djankov, but we can safely claim that it has become a philosophy of the current ministers of finance, of labour and of social policy. The budget of state social security must guarantee citizens' social rights and increase the quality of insurance protection, so that the DEA system and, above all, pension insurance does not generate poverty and social exclusion. There are no such guarantees in the 2016 IPO budget again. On the contrary, you can be sure that at the end of the budget year the poor Bulgarians will have increased their number. A few comments on the revenue side of the DOA budget. I would like to start by pointing out that, once again, economic and demographic indicators are not seen on the basis of which revenue and expenditure in individual funds are estimated. In this budget, there is no hint of discussion on the levels of contributions and, apart from the Fund, there are serious deficits in all other funds. I am convinced that a mechanical increase in social security contributions will not solve the problems because a return of confidence in the insurance system is needed. I do not see any ideas on the indisputable need for measures to increase the collection of the income of the IPOs and to limit the possibilities for avoiding obligations and violations of legislation. How can we explain the reluctance to increase the maximum insurance income? Except as a curtsy to the high income groups of Bulgarians and genocide to the low income groups. If you care about people with low incomes living around the poverty line, you will have to raise the maximum insurance income. And a few criticisms on the spending part of the budget. In general, the proposed Bill for a consecutive year does not propose a decision on the adequacy of payments, as are the expectations of society. People expect not to freeze the amount of payments, but a more serious increase in both the indexing of pensions and the amount of all social payments. I'll start with the pensions. In 2016, and for the next 15 years, according to the budget, there will be no increase in the existing pensions, other than the update of the Swiss rule. This cannot help but strengthen the differences between old and newly released pensions, which is a cynical injustice and will lead to conflicts between generations. Unlike 2010 - 2013 for the second year in a row, you are still planning to update all pensions from 1 July 2016 under the Swiss rule by 2,5%. That's probably for congratulations, because it's 2.5% unlike 1.9% last year and it's certainly more than nothing in your previous term. This is hardly how the Bulgarians will be compensated for the growing cost of maintenance in 2016. This is about the Bulgarian pensioners. This will lead to an increase of the minimum pension from 157 to 161 BGN, with a total of 3,94 BGN, not to mention the social pension from 115 BGN. BGN 118, i.e. BGN 2.85. There's no way you can convince these people, the pensioners, that's almost 2 million. 200,000. the person that these two or three leva monthly compensate for inflation and will be enough to live as they lived this year. You probably don't want to hear it, but I'm going to say clearly and firmly that at the time of a minimum pension, there are over 250,000. pensioners, and with a pension to the poverty limit of 300 BGN. They're over a million and a half pensioners. Is that normal? Is it not a genocide to deliberately behave in poverty millions of Bulgarians? There is no way that the question of the correctness of this whole up-to-date approach will not arise and once again, the question comes to the fore - why do you management not link up the consumer price index of the so-called "small basket" and not as it has been with the consumer price index of the European Union's common consumer basket? And one more thing. The continuing increase in age and internship of pension and maintaining the low level of pensions will inevitably lead to an increase in distrust in the insurance system, demotivation and denial of insurance. I'm moving on to frozen payments. Last year, in the last budget, we counted 14 of them, and now, this year, the same again! Listen carefully to what this is about. First, the compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age is held at 340 BGN. For a second consecutive year, for a second consecutive budget, as you had frozen it for three and a half years in the previous management. Once again you will gather the mothers to the Council of Ministers, don't doubt it! The expenditure in the budget for raising a child after the first year reduces the demographic crisis and the amount of compensation remains 340 BGN. That's cynical! Second, monthly child support up to one year of the uninsured mothers - 100 BGN, frozen! Third, the amount of one-time assistance in a child with permanent disabilities. 100 BGN, frozen! Fourth, the monthly supplement for children with disabilities - 240 BGN! There's a freeze here, too. Have some mercy on these children and their parents! It is difficult for healthy people in Bulgaria to survive, and what about the sick?! How can this be your attitude towards those parents who have employed to raise their child with disabilities rather than leave him in some social institution, and you are talking about taking him out of the institutions?! Fifth, help for first graders - 250 BGN, frozen! No comment! Sixth, the amount of single help during pregnancy. 150 BGN, frozen! No comment again! Seventh, one-time help for twins frozen without comment! Eighth, one-time adoption aid of a child - 250 BGN, frozen! The 9th frozen aid is the one-time aid for student mothers "is frozen and is legally aggravated to receive it. Tenth, the dimensions of the one-time childbirth assistance - frozen sizes, with 100 BGN. increases the one-time aid only for the third child from 200 to 300 BGN, but in this policy you are leading, how many third children are born in Bulgaria?! Now tell me, how does this so far relate to your declarations that you see and will work towards overcoming the demographic problem? It's not your policy and you're not helping demographics. We're going to wipe this people out! Who should hear the parents and mothers of disabled children, of the socially weak? They're not an organized table, they can't go out to protest to protect their interests, they don't have guns, so there's no one to hear them. The police went out to protest and the Prime Minister ordered concessions, but there are no concessions for mothers. Well, what if they were cops?! Have mercy, protect them! The minister is left-oriented, but it was such that only until entry into this government. I'll continue with the frozen payments. Eleven, minimum daily amount of the unemployment allowance - BGN 7,20, no change for a consecutive year. Is that normal? No inflation?! Let's make an account: BGN 7.20. BGN 154 per day. per month or this is a total of 36.67% of the minimum wage. Last year was at least 40,53%. You're violating the standards of the International Labour Organisation, and I don't know why the trade unions are putting up with you?! [[Relations from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] I don't know why, with an upper limit of the compensation of 60% of the average insurance income of the person is set, why not set the lower limit of 60% of the minimum wage? Otherwise, the motivation for the necessary unemployment insurance for such low benefits, which are 51% of the poverty threshold, is depreciated. Twelveth frozen payment, the annual food vouchers quota for workers "240 million." lv.! For another year, no change! I'm gonna ask you again: are the unions sleeping?! Thirteenth, the compensation received by the beneficiaries of the Fund Guaranteed claims of employees and employees in the event of the insolvency of the employer and frozen! What prevents it from being increased at least with the accumulated inflation? There are plenty of funds accumulated in the Fund that are earmarked for this very purpose. But we are not protecting this Fund, which is part of the fiscal reserve, but the people who have done honest work to wait and receive inadequate benefits! Even though they have encountered incorrect employers, they will now face the incorrect state! In conclusion, public social security, social assistance and social care systems play an important and crucial role in reducing inequalities. The policy pursued by the government from the point of view of the proposed draft budget of the IPO could not eliminate the income inequality in the medium and long term, but would only deepen it. A new policy on income, taxes, insurance contributions, new mechanisms in determining the minimum wage, salaries in the budget sector is needed, as well as incentives for industry bargaining on wage growth in the real sector. This is clearly not in the power of the government of the ruling majority because they offer neither vision nor policies or measures to solve problems; they do not answer the main questions of stabilisation of insurance funds and the adequacy of benefits and pensions. All of this, and I can list more and more, are motives that make me vote against the adoption of this budget. That is what I recommend to all Members of the National Assembly. I don't know if they'll listen to my words. When discussing a second reading of the budget of state social security by the Parliamentary Group, we will make motivated proposals: the compensation for raising a child from one to two years to be linked to the minimum wage and to be at the following rates. [[Relations from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] You're in a hurry, but you'll hear it, no matter how embarrassing it is! The monthly supplement for children with disabilities to increase to 70% of the minimum wage. To reduce the period for calculating benefits for pregnancy and childbirth from 24 to at least 18 months. The maximum insurance income to be linked to the minimum wage of 10 minimum wages. The minimum unemployment benefit should be increased to 60% of the minimum wage. daily. The compensations received by the members of the Fund shall be increased by at least the amount of inflation of employees and employees in the event of insolvency of the employer. The annual food vouchers quota shall be increased by at least 25%. Help for first graders to increase at least the amount of inflation. Of course, this does not limit all the proposals that we will make between first and second readings. The last thing I say to you: please do not support this antisocial budget! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u108	- What's the line? I won't. Before I give the floor to Mr. Radan Kanev, I would like to remind the MPs that during the vote on our weekly programme this morning, I announced that we will work with extended working hours today to the vote on the budget of the Casa, which is already a fact, the Bill on the budget of the state social security and presentation of the reports of the Standing Committees on the State Budget Bill for 2016. We're listening, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to point out that the budget of state social security does not give in to the Republican budget at least! At the very least, because the deficit that state social security generates and, accordingly, the transfer that the Republican budget makes to the funds of state social security, lastingly and undoubtedly in the foreseeable future, exceeds the entire deficit of the Republican budget. Therefore, when we are talking about the budget of state social security, we are also talking about all the underfunded areas of the Republican budget, in so far as the eligible deficit is significantly exceeded at the moment when the transfer to the Fund is formed, even only to the Fund of Pensions. Unfortunately, we also find that, in this year's budget of state social security, the budget that we are now voting on for 2016, this deficit is increasing and is not increasing due to the elimination of the 12-percent transfer and the fact that we are already calling the whole deficit by its real name and all the transfer by its real name, for which we must congratulate the government for this decision and our own vote in this direction when the amendments to the Social Security Code are being amended, but because the cumulative deficit is increasing, that is, the general transfer of the Republican budget to the public funds will be increased in 2016 and as an absolute amount, and as a percentage of the DVO budget. I must point out that I see a certain understatement of revenue in the budget of state social security or a complete lack of effect from the changes that we voted on in 2015. I believe that it is rather an understatement of revenue and that this budget will be overrun, which means that there are certain reserves in it, either to reduce the transfer from the state budget, or to increase certain payments laid down in the budget of state social security. There may be a slight increase in payment for minimum daily compensation in case of unemployment, which the Bulgarian trade unions are calling for. This must be reconsidered between first and second readings. I do not believe that sufficient account has been taken of the effect of the criminalisation of the non-payment of insurance contributions, which has shown very strongly in excess of expectations in 2015 and should have a lasting and sustainable effect regardless of the natural boom that occurred this year. The effect of the so-called "possible free choice" between a universal pension fund and the "Pensions" Fund is not clearly visible, but here I suppose that the representatives of the Ministry who are absent today will be able to give us a little more clarity between first and second readings. In any case, the deficits generated and the upcoming increase in these deficits, regardless of the increase in the pension contribution and the increase in retirement age, are due to much larger demographic problems. We have an understanding of this fact, and we are not too keen to dwell on the fact that the deficit is still increased despite the measures taken. There is also no doubt that the lasting solution is in strategic and educational policies and not simply in policies directly related to state social security. It is clear that the policies at the entry and exit of today's labour market cannot give a solution to the problem of the deficit or even to its limitation in the foreseeable future, if we want some decent update of pensions, let us say, under the Swiss rule, as set out in this draft budget. However, I would like to point out that both state social security policies and labour market policies in 2015, regardless of the series of commitments adopted in the formation of the government, in the preparation of the government programme and the programme declaration, the majority did not allow the extension of the horizontal scope of the persons involved in the provision, which are in the light of the collection of insurance contributions and which can accordingly extend the scope at the entrance of the insurance system. In this budget, such measures are again not laid down. I would like to stress that in the six years that I have been dealing with a policy on state social security and have been in contact with every expert and every political blade in the Bulgarian political life on these issues, there was a lasting consensus on measures that is systematically violated when the relevant political power came to power. At the moment, from our point of view, from the point of view of a political party in power, this is extremely worrying. I would like to emphasise that both with GERB and ABB and with the Patriot Front, and in this case especially up-to-date is ABB, we have never had a contradiction on the need for regionalisation and minimum wage, and on the minimum social security income for self-serving persons, and on minimum social security benefits by professions. We didn't have a contradiction when we were all in opposition. So it should be when we all form the majority and are in power, and since we have been managing and carrying out relevant reforms in this area for a whole year now, we have voted on numerous changes both in the Social Security Code and in the Labour Code, we should have taken at least a small step in this direction. In my statement on the state social security budget, I explicitly stated that in 2015 we expect steps in this direction. Unfortunately, steps have not been taken, and then there were such assurances that 2015 is the year in which we will pay attention to the severe geographical imbalances that have their immediate effects on the employment and development of the regions when raising the angro minimum insurance income. I would like to say that I support the budget in the part where the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons does not increase, because if that were allowed, we would have taken, in general, the last opportunity of people with really very low incomes, a very low volume of work and very low turnover in their business to remain in the light at all. Currently this income of 420 leva. is about on the brink of bearableness of all people who have free professions or other types of employment hidden behind free professions, in poorer areas of the country and in smaller towns. Conversely, the lack of differentiation makes this income extremely low. For Sofia, Varna, Plovdiv, Burgas and other major cities, as well as for the economically well-developed regions of the country without certain regionalization and without certain division by occupations of these incomes we cannot achieve an adequate level of insurance collection. And we support both the expulsion of people into the grey economy, as their real income is significantly below minimum insurance income, and the concealment of insurance on a particularly large scale by self-insured persons whose income is significantly above minimum insurance income. The question is quite separate, the obvious inability of the NRA to exercise adequate control over the hiding of the top over minimum insurance benefits. The same, even more so, in this draft budget applies to minimum insurance benefits by occupation. There is no way for us to hide from the fact that for the same activity the incomes in Sofia and Vidin are three or four times different and that when we impose uniform minimum insurance income, we allow employers in Sofia to continue to hide a significant amount of insurance contributions and employers in Vidin to leave the area because the opportunities of the labour market in this area do not meet the possibility of actually hiring people at so high minimum insurance incomes. This, by the way, does not only apply to Vidin. This applies to the whole Northwest of the country, as well as to a large part of the Northeast and mountain areas. It is particularly relevant for Silistra, to a significant extent for Targovishte, Shumen and Razgrad, to a significant extent for Smolyan, Haskovo and Kardzhali. These are areas where new levels of minimum insurance income will drive employers out of these areas and lead to an increase in severe geographical imbalances in economic development, employment, labour quality and life prospects. Also when we were in opposition, we all agreed on the need for different insurance treatment of start-ups, because Bulgaria is in a continuous spiral of reduction of real start-ups, even with a relatively favorable economic situation, as was the conjuncture in 2015 and as predicted by the Republican budget is expected to be the conjuncture in 2016. The same applies to traditional crafts of the poorest sections of the population. None of these people generate £420. I am not talking about income, from traditional activity, which means that they all remain in the grey economy, all of them remain clients of social assistance, come more expensive to the state, but more importantly whole communities of the population are maintained in a regime of illegal employment and systematic removal from state regulation. In other words, violence becomes the norm of life. This thing also remains sustainable due to the lack of differentiation in crafts and taking into account the availability of numerous crafts that do not generate minimal insurance income. That is, the exception provided for farmers and tobacco producers, where there is only a 10% increase from 300 to 330 BGN, should be provided for people with many other activities that are not agricultural in nature. I don't want to bother you and enumerate them, I think many of you think of many such activities. Colleagues, we don't want to behave like the ABB with the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act. We do not want to make political demonstrations, although in this particular Bill we have much more solid reasons for doing so. Since, as I said at the beginning, the budget of state social security is the most important element of the Republican budget because it generates the entire deficit and a significant top on this deficit, we believe that positions of the type are voting on one budget, but we do not vote on one of the small budgets and do not have any content other than the actual content of a political demonstration. For this reason, despite the frank reluctance of many of the MPs in the Reformation bloc to support this budget, I will call on them to vote for the public security budget, with only the group's co-chairs voting in favour of abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, I have listened very carefully to your speech. Firstly, I would like to congratulate you on being the only one who, by the ruling majority, has dared to take the floor on the Law under discussion. I have a few questions for you: You said that in this Law revenues are underestimated extremely much. I would like to ask you: if we submit a proposal between first and second readings to increase the amount of revenue in this budget, will you support it? In your speech, you said that the ruling majority formed has not even taken a small step forward in relation to the measures that you envisaged when you were in opposition, and when you are in power, you are not implementing them anyway. If this finding is true and so, on what occasion and why do you support this budget if the policies that you wanted to implement are not implemented and are not in the budget? You said that you support the policy of not raising contributions for self-insured persons, but that is not exactly because farmers are self-insuring people too, but there income is rising. Please comment on these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line, Mrs. Nino, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u113	Mr. Kanev, obviously your speech has caused the same feeling and reactions in this House because my line is similar. The first is the positive impression that you have taken a view of the State Social Security Budget Act, unlike the political party GERB, which all day did not speak out on one of the most important laws in the country, which shows perhaps two things. The first is that they have no arguments to defend what is offered there if they do not want to speak. The second is that they disagree with what is being proposed there, so yes, you are the only one who has laid out a position. That is the positive side of this statement. There is a strange thing about this statement, however. You broke this budget in all its parameters, such as criticism and disagreement with the policy that is at stake inside, with the essence of what we should do in Parliament, but in the end you said: "We will support it because of some of your coalition considerations. Do you understand how depreciating the position of the Reformation bloc, of your presence here and of making politics in parliament? You are essentially not in agreement with this policy at all, but just like that, proforma, you will support it in the name of some political consensus that you know what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Kanev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will try very briefly to answer the basic questions. The first one in terms of farmers. He's basically on the draft budget. We must emphasise something that we have repeatedly stressed that the levels at which farmers are provided in Bulgaria do not significantly correspond to the level of the replacement income of the minimum pension they receive. Even the level of £420. minimum salary and minimum insurance income at the current estimates in the Bulgarian pension system does not provide as a contribution, as a contributive element does not provide a minimum pension, which means that the level of 300 BGN. does not provide it, drasticly! [[Heckling]] In the Reformation Block Programme, in principle, there is a complete correlation between the insurance contribution and the income received, i.e. it should be either lower than or lower than the current minimum pension in the event that the insurance income is below adequate or higher levels of all minimum social security benefits, which would reduce the minimum pension. [[DPS lines.]] Of course, we need to find some balance and this balance we find it precisely in maintaining the level of minimum insurance income that we support, and I stress insufficiently, insufficiently increasing the minimum insurance income for farmers, which we also support. And here, to a large extent, I answer both you and Mrs. Ninova on the question: why do we support this budget? We haven't broken it at all. If the goal was to break it down, we'd sound completely different. We support some key, basic parameters in it, including maintaining the minimum insurance income for self-insuring, the minor increase in income for farmers, the preservation of maximum insurance income at 2015 levels. I have directed really very sharp criticism not to the parameters of the budget while maintaining the current model, to the philosophy of state social security, but to the fact that we really fully preserve this model. That is, not only are we not taking a major reformist step in the field of public security, but we are not taking a small step in this direction. This budget handled well with expectations, handled well with revenue and expenditure parameters for next year. He will deal with in the end, however, there is no beginning of a bolder policy on expanding on the basis of insurance that we have always held and with which, by the way, we have also been in agreement with the parties of today's opposition, which they also did not apply when they were in power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. I don't see anyone else. At least there's no request. I'm closing the debate on the bill. Please, honourable Members, prepare for a vote. We are voting at first reading the Draft Budget of State Social Security for 2016, No 502-01-87, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. Please, voting mode. Vote 165 MPs: 111, against 41, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote first, Mr. Turnover. For the second negative vote, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. The third is now vacant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u117	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it, because in the budget of the State Social Security for 2016, the majority responsible does not offer vision, policies, measures and does not answer the basic questions of stabilisation of insurance funds and the adequacy of benefits, payments and pensions. Where are they, gentlemen managing, promised long-term policies for adequate levels of social assistance and payments, for a sustainable increase in labour income and payments, for a reduction in unemployment, for the promotion of responsible parenthood, for tackling and countering the demographic catastrophe? I voted against it because you lied to the hopes and expectations of the most vulnerable, to the most helpless people with disabilities, mothers, children, socially weak Bulgarians. Because in 2016 the promised and assumed commitments of the government remain only on paper in the signed Program Declaration of the parliamentary majority of 7 November 2014 and in real life continue the freezing of 14 social payments to the most vulnerable and defenseless compatriots of ours. With rising prices of the main food products and expected inflation to 1.2% on an annual basis, frozen income, the impoverishment of the Bulgarian will continue, and as if you do not want to understand that the problem of the problems of our society is poverty, but obviously this does not interest the non-existent and non-existent majority. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u118	Second negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it on behalf of the thousands of small farmers who were hit by raising the minimum insurance threshold. I voted against it because of the non-binding of the minimum wage on behalf of 39 thousand. mothers damaged each month with 80 leva. in the case of child care aid from one to two years; on behalf of 23 thousand. children with disabilities who are damaged with BGN 54 monthly from its monthly addition; on behalf of 30 thousand. Children from low-income families by placing the monthly average income to acquire the right to social benefits below the minimum wage; on behalf of 21 thousand. unemployed, who will also be harmed by BGN 89. per month by setting the minimum daily average of the unemployment allowance; on behalf of 300 thousand pensioners with 161 leva. minimum pension and on behalf of more than 1.5 million pensioners with a pension with which they live next to the poverty line You have once again shown that for you the poor do not matter, for you the rich matter. That's why you didn't raise the maximum insurance income, because you're interested in having rich people to feed you, and you don't care about the poor. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u120	Third negative vote? I won't. Procedure Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u121	Madam President, on behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group, please rest for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u122	I declare an interruption of the meeting until 14.45, and then we continue with the First reading of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with the presentation of the reports of the committees. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u123	The sitting continues with: FIRST READING OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2016 There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, to present the report to the Commission. I ask that all further reports be presented in summary according to the provisions of our Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u124	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At a meeting held on 12 November 2015, together with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by Minister Vladislav Goranov, Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev, Minister Petar Moskov, Minister Bozidar Lukarski, Minister Nikolina Angelkova, Dimitar Radev, Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman of the Court of Auditors, and other fellow officials. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Minister Vladislav Goranov. The main dimensions of the 2016 Consolidated Financial Programme indicators are: It's revenue. The amount of total revenue, aid and donations under the Consolidated fiscal programme for 2016 is 33 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. (37.4% of gross domestic product) and is greater by 1 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. of the amount of the revised assessment of revenue, aid and donations for 2015 The amount of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. is the result of the increase in tax income by 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and the non-tax revenue of 861.9 million. BGN, as well as the reduction of aid and donations by 761.2 million. lv. On expenses. The amount of the total expenditure and contribution to the European Union budget to the consolidated fiscal programme is 34 billion. It's 815.7 million. lv. or 39,4 % of gross domestic product and is greater by 292 million. lv. of the amount of the revised assessment 2015 Budget balance. In the consolidated fiscal programme for 2015-2018, for 2016, the Council of Ministers has adopted a budget balance to be a deficit of 1 billion. 800 million. lv. Regarding the estimated amount of gross domestic product, the deficit is 2.0 percent. The budget balance is formed by the deficit budgetary balances of the national budget of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and the accounts for EU funds amounting to BGN 150,6 million. Decision of the General Budget of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2016 under the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2016 under the heading of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2016 on the financial year 2016 under the heading of the general government services and on the general budget of the Union and on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and on the general budget of the Union and on the general budget of the Union. Budgetary relations between the state budget and the municipalities for 2016 provide for a 2 billion-dollar relationship. 662.1 million BGN, of which the amount for local activities is 403.6 million. lv. and the State-sponsored activities 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that The total amount of the increase of 176,5 million. lv. As of 2015, it was allocated to all indicators of budgetary relations, namely: for the total subsidy for state activities 156.1 million. lv.; for a total matching subsidy of 5,0 million lv.; winter maintenance and snow cleaning transfer 5.1 million lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2 revenues and aid are proposed to be at a total of 20 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that In addition, the tax revenue is 18 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that The total cost is 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and is allocated: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; for growth of the state reserve 19.2 Budgetary relations (transfers) net of 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and are the result of transfers of 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The budget balance is proposed to be a deficit of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that A budget of the judiciary for 2016. The Council of Ministers offers a total revenue amount of 140 million. BGN, the total cost is 518 million. BGN 508.9 million lv. for current expenditure; 8,5 million lv. For capital expenditure and 0,6 million lv. Reserve. Budget of the National Assembly for 2016. It is envisaged with total expenditure 53.4 million. BGN, of which budget relations with the Central Budget 51.9 million lv. Changes in the state budget framework for 2015. According to the estimates of the managing authorities to refinance expenditure under the programmes and to ensure the corresponding national co-financing of the projects, additional transfers of 714.7 million are needed. lv. In addition, additional funds of 110 million will be needed. lv. for the financing of VAT for rural development beneficiaries under the Rural Development Programme and 110 million lv. additional payments on the completion of the investment projects under Operational Programme In order to address the challenges related to the provision of additional transfers at the expense of EU funds and to incur unplanned costs related to the optimization of staff in different sectors, it is proposed that the 2015 State Budget Act should increase revenue by 832.8 million. BGN, and the costs of 387,8 million. lv. It is proposed to allocate these amounts to the indicators as follows: - In Section I, the total amount of income, aid and donations to be increased by 18 billion. It's 247.6 million. lv. at 19 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that - In Section II, it cost 9 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 In Section III, budget relations (transfers) net the amount of 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN 124 million of this amount. lv. are given under point 1.12 "Account for the European Union funds of the National Fund, of the Ministry of Finance. On the draft was held an extensive discussion in the committees in which their opinions expressed the great honour of the participants, namely: the representative of the Supreme Judicial Council Dimitar Uzunov, the manager of the Bulgarian National Bank Dimitar Radev, the representative of the Industrial Capital Association Vasil Velev, the representative of the CNSB Luben Tonev, the representative of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Vassil Todorov, the representative of the Syndical Office of Security at the Ministry of Interior Galentin Grozev and others. Opinions and questions also spoke the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance. After the discussions were concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:....... 11 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 by the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism "spoken representative Petar Kanev. With a request, as the Chairman has asked, only summary of the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u126	♪ I can't believe under Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86 The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held together with the Committee on Budget and Finance on 12 November 2015, examined and discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The bill was presented by Minister Vladislav Goranov, who stressed that the proposed budget guarantees financial stability and is a prerequisite for good governance. By the end of 2016, the maximum debt amount is expected not to exceed 26,6 billion. BGN, with the maximum amount of the new government debt, which can be assumed under the Law on Government Debt, is 5.3 billion. lv. The forecast for the real economic growth for 2016 is 2.1% and for the next two years it is envisaged to maintain relatively stable levels in 2017 and 2.7% in 2018. Economic growth is expected to reduce unemployment to 9.1% in 2016 and to 8% in 2018. Minister Bozidar Lukarski defined the two main policies of the Ministry of Economy in 2016: Sustainable economic development and competitiveness. Minister Nikolina Angelkova commented that the implementation of the main policy of the Ministry of Economy will be achieved by developing a diversified tourist product for positioning Bulgaria as a preferred year-round tourist destination. In its position, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria believes that the expectations for GDP growth in 2016 are increased by 2% and we should stick to more modest expectations of growth between 1.3 and 1,5%. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria appreciates as an acceptable long-term trend for growth of gross domestic product in the medium term, but believes that the rate of growth is not enough to restore employment and the labour market. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in its position on the 2016 Budget supports certain parameters and expresses reservations towards others. Support shall be given to maintaining low tax rates; budget deficit efforts within 2% of GDP. The representatives of the trade union organizations in the Ministry of Interior requested the removal of paragraphs 9 to 16 in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law. In the subsequent discussion, the representatives of Coalition BSP left Bulgaria (Bulgaria) declared failure to support the bill. The representatives of the DPS reject the update of the 2015 budget due to the expected deficit of 3.3 and the likelihood of a criminal excessive deficit procedure. The representatives of the Reformation bloc support the bill. It is considered that the economic growth at stake is real, as well as the revenue and expenditure at stake. The questions were answered by Minister Goranov. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Draft Budget of the judiciary for 2016 under Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2: supposed to be 12 Members of the National Assembly,...................................................................................................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. On the basis of the above vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Draft Budget of the judiciary under Article 3. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The report from the Energy Commission will introduce us to the Chairman of the Energy Committee, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its meeting held together with the Monitoring Commission of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 12 November 2015, the Energy Commission discussed the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov and others; Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and Mr. Borislav Stanimirov from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova presented the parameters of the budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2016. She pointed out that the Ministry of Energy will guide its activities towards sustainable and competitive energy development. The main aspect of the policy of the Ministry will be the effective development of the energy sector as one of the most important prerequisites for increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. For the implementation of state policy in the field of energy, the Ministry sets the following strategic goal: creating conditions for safe, efficient and eco-friendly energy. In order to achieve the strategic objective, three operational objectives are set as follows: guaranteeing the security of supply in competitive energy markets, efficient and eco-friendly development and management of energy resources. The revenues of the Ministry of Energy amounted to 244 263 000 BGN, or to 122 239 000 BGN, the project of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. More, the increase is due to the funds provided for in the 2016 draft budget to implement the National Investment Plan. According to the type of sources, revenues of 244 263 000 BGN. are distributed as follows: 85 382 000 BGN they are due contributions, according to the Ordinance on the order of establishment, collection, spending and control of funds in the Fund. are revenue from state fees for administrative and other services and activities, including under the Energy Efficiency Act, the Energy Act, the Underground Treasure Act and others. In conclusion, Minister Petkova assured that with this budget, the Ministry of Energy will be able to meet the main goals and priorities of the government in the sector.................................................................................. The Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission presented the parameters of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's budget for 2016. Mr. Ivan Ivanov noted that the analysis of the new Commission's Rules of Procedure shows that it will be necessary to attract new experts, as well as the necessary financial resources for a major renovation of the building, the expansion of infrastructure, the furnishing of jobs, the introduction of electronic total customer service and others. The representatives of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency also expressed their position on their planned budget for 2016. Mr. Borislav Stanimirov gave an opinion that the Agency's revenue is twice as much as the costs that are determined: 7.4 million. lv. About 4,127 million. He noted that what they want as a change in the budget is to be allocated another 400,000 leva for the pen The MPs from all parliamentary groups have expressed their support for the increase of the budget to both the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and that of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, with a view to the need for greater financial resources, for the better functioning of both departments. After the end of the discussion and after the vote, the Energy Committee expressed the following opinion: with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 7 votes against, and without abstention, the Energy Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u129	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The Committee on Legal Affairs Desislava Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. As the report of the Legal Committee is five pages, requesting a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The draft budget of the judiciary for 2016, prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council, was presented by Ms. Sonia Naydenova and Mr. Lozan Panov and Minister Hristo Ivanov presented the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the same project. The 2016 budget has been drawn up in an updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2016 - 2018, as the main priority of the fiscal policy carried out in the medium term is the effort to maintain stability of public finances. In terms of revenue, the project of the Supreme Judicial Council proposes a reduction in the amount of the revenue compared to 2015 by 30,0 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Revenue from the activities of the judicial authorities, of which 93.0 million is intended to be revenue from judicial fees. The proposal of the Council of Ministers is to preserve the level of revenues from 2015 amounting to BGN 140,0 million, of which 120,0 million. lv. from court fees. On the cost side, in its project, the Supreme Judicial Council proposes a total cost of 542,5 million. BGN, of which 520.7 million lv. For current costs, which in absolute value represents an increase of 57.3 million. lv. from 2015 approved, i.e. a growth of 12.4% is available. The proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council is in line with the need for financial provision of the main policies set out in the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. In particular, the request is based on objective needs relating to the number of magistrates and judicial officers appointed in relation to the number of legal proceedings, strengthening the professional qualifications of judicial authorities, control of judicial authorities. In addition, the SJC foresees an increase in capital expenditure by 11.9 million. lv. to those approved for 2015 for the information strategy of the judicial authorities and for improving administrative service by building an information system with electronic services. The Council of Ministers, taking into account the requests requested by the SJC to secure the payment of remuneration and social security contributions, for the announced contests for junior judges and junior prosecutors, according to the legal requirements and budgetary capabilities with a view to the fiscal policy to safeguard the stability of public finances, provides for an increase of 45,0 million. lv. the total cost compared to 2015 or a total of 518.0 million. BGN aimed at increasing the funds for staff. The Council of Ministers also envisions 8.5 million. lv. capital expenditure, in addition to the powers entrusted to the Minister of Justice in the management of the property of the judiciary under the draft budget of the Ministry of Justice, is planned to cover capital expenditure for the judicial authorities. With regard to a contingency and/or emergency reserve, the SJC project provides 900 thousand. BGN and the opinion of the Council of Ministers - 600 thousand. lv. According to the budgetary relations (transfers), the difference in the budgetary relationship with the central budget between the two projects is 54 million. Five thousand. BGN, representing an effective amount between planned revenue and expenditure on the budget of the judiciary. As regards the texts proposed by the SJC to art. 2 of the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, the Council of Ministers supports the proposal of the SJC on this. 4, 5, 7 and 8 should be retained by proposing the proposal of the SJC for para. 6 to be dropped, a.k.a. 7 and para. 8 to become respectively para. 6 and 7. About para. 9, The Council of Ministers does not support the SJC's proposal on the grounds that the powers of the Council of Ministers are limited to the possibility of approving additional expenditure on the budget of the judiciary at the expense of the central budget when the balance of the state budget is not violated, in which case the resulting changes to the budget of the judiciary are carried out by the authorising officer with a budget of the judiciary. After discussing the budget of the Supreme Judicial Council, the MPs supported the proposed budget of the Ministry of Justice. Following the discussion on the State Budget Bill, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 6 votes........... and 9 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 11 votes in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, 2 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers with included a draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will present to us the chairman of the Committee of National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House? At its regular meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502 Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and her alternates Mr. Nankov and Mr. Asparuhov, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Department of Finance of the Municipalities and Mrs. Ginka Chavdarova, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, presented to the Commission the draft budget of the Ministry and information on the funds provided for in the project for the main policies, programmes and activities carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (MRF). The costs of the activity are divided into three main policies and nine budget programmes carried out by the ministry. Attention was paid to the funds provided in the project for the implementation of the activities of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency and the National Building Control Directorate. Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Department of Municipal Finances in the Ministry of Finance, presented to the MPs detailed information on the projections of the Draft in its section on the relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities. The draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 provides for a general subsidy for the activities delegated by the State to municipalities of 2 billion. The Commission 918 thousand. lv.; transfers for local activities, including Total matching subsidy 269 million lv. and transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads 28 million. 128,000. BGN, as well as, of course, a target subsidy for capital expenditure of 142 million. Ninety thousand. lv. Ms. Ginka Chavdarova - Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria presented the opinion of the municipalities under the Law. The proposals of the municipalities to increase transfers in certain activities, the reasons and the specific amount of the necessary additional funds are set out in detail in the Protocol for the consultations on the bill signed between the Minister of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. During the discussion the MPs raised a number of questions related to the different parameters of the budget, to which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works responded. Special attention was paid to the issues related to the possibilities for the realization of sites in road infrastructure, the Energy Efficiency Program and the renovation of residential buildings, as well as to the proposals of municipalities to increase transfers in certain activities. Proposals were made between the two votes of the bill to seek additional mechanisms and opportunities to provide additional funds both for certain activities carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and for the Bulgarian municipalities, taking into account the specific characteristics of the formation of the budgets of the individual municipalities, with a view to ensuring the necessary financial resources for them to operate independently next year. Based on the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government: - without votes and 3 votes against and 12 votes abstention, propose to the National Assembly a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, including the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2, not to be adopted in the first vote; - with 10 votes in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, 3 votes against the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstentioned, proposes to the National Assembly a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502.01.86, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2 to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u133	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. The Foreign Policy Committee report will present its President, Jemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u134	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law No 502-01-86 on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At a regular meeting held on 11 November 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov. For the purposes of programming budgeting and taking into account the administrative functional distribution in the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 10 programmes, distributed in three policies, have been formulated to achieve greater accountability - Development of an effective service, Public Diplomacy and Active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy. The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 defines: revenue, expenditure, transfers and subsidies from the central budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main parameters of the 2016 Budget Project in its part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are as follows: - own revenues amount to 62 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - costs of 122 million. Six hundred thousand. 500 leva.• • • • • • • - The subsidy amounts to 60 million. Six hundred thousand. 500 leva. The allocation of expenditure on policies and budgetary programmes shall be confirmed as follows: - Policy in the field of development of an effective diplomatic service 953 thousand. £900. - Public Diplomacy Policy - 730 thousand. £700. - Active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy policy - 18 million. 915,000. £900. The maximum costs that can be borne in 2016 and the maximum cost obligations that may be incurred in 2016 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which amount to 101 million, shall be confirmed. 862 thousand. £900. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, which cannot be spent for other purposes, and not more than 5% of these funds may be spent to administer the aid. Under the implementation of the central budget, the following funds are planned to be provided for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: - 2 852 540 leva. on the entry into force of a judgment concerning claims of co-owners of properties owned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs granted to the Chinese party to the 2006 Agreement; - £3,000. for long-term missions under the programme "Management of foreign-border representations and support to Bulgarian citizens abroad'. - £700,000. in connection with an upcoming increase in costs for NATO Headquarters in Brussels. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 11 votes......................... 5 votes against...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. With the report of the Defence Committee, we will be introduced to her President General Miho Mihov. Here you are, dear Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At a regular meeting held on 17 November 2015, the Defence Committee discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. In their speeches, the MPs agreed that there was an increase in revenue by 44,000 thousand. lv and costs s 1 003 089 thousand. BGN, in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, compared to 2015, which is positive as a trend and reaction in accordance with the complicated security environment. In the updated medium-term budgetary forecast 2016 - 2018 has been reaffirmed the defence policy related to the maintenance of modern and combatable armed forces. In order to achieve this goal nine directions have been developed for the period 2016 - 2018. The central budget provides for additional costs up to 491,4 million. lv. replacing MiG-29 with a new type of fighter and acquiring multifunctional modular patrol ships for the Navy. The positive thing is that these funds are being allocated to the central budget, which speaks of the government's maximum commitment and its intentions of control. With the funds from the Central Budget, the share of defence spending reaches 1,345 per cent of GDP, which is growth compared to the previous year. Budget 2016 will help increase the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Army in a complex and difficult predictable international environment. The Defence Committee notes as a weakness that the Ministry of Defence's recommendations to launch the process of acquiring a new armored ground troops machine by providing additional funds, respectively, to 40,000 thousand. lv. And 60,000. BGN, are not laid down in the Central Budget for 2017 and 2018. We are obliged to note that the practice started several years ago has continued to plan staff funds in the Ministry of Defence's budget only for the actual staff available.... about 38 thousand people, not based on the established state staff of the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces and the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence. Such an approach suggests that the existing incompletion in the armed forces instead of decreasing annually will increase. By the end of this year, the network is more than 4,500 people and will probably not be completed in 2016. Military formations will experience problems with the preparation and battle assembly. The draft State Budget Act 2016 did not take into account the modification of the base for determining the basic monthly remuneration. It must correspond to the minimum wage, which is planned to grow to 420 BGN and is offered to remain at the level of 2015. The Defence Committee considers that the proposed changes recorded in § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the State Budget Act for 2016 should be dropped. They are not in line with the reforms carried out in the Ministry of Defence system, where deviations from the requirements of other laws and servicemen and civil servants are already excluded from their respective positions with perfect contracts. The proposed amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act are hasty, sharp and will lead to the demitivation of the personnel, followed by the submission of reports for leaving the Bulgarian Army. After the end of the discussion, a vote took place in which 15 MPs participated. As a result of the vote, the Defence Committee, with 10 votes, 4 votes against, and 1 vote abstention, adopted the following decision: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on October 30, 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u137	Thank you, General Mihov. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you are, General Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee at its regular meeting on 11 November 2015 examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from: the Ministry of Finance "Nadezhda Genova, Head of Department of State Expenditure Directorate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would like to explicitly point out and stress that the meeting was invited to attend and present the State budget, Mr Finance Minister, and his absence, apart from the fact that it was a demonstration and attitude towards the Commission, almost failed the sitting itself and that the Commission could not take the attitude and prepare a report on the state budget. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, the Interior Ministry presented the position by Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. In the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2016 the estimated expenditure of 1 billion. 127 million, including 999 million for staff, 120 million for maintenance and other expenses, and 15 million for capital expenditure. The expenditure provided for the budget for the Ministry of Interior for 2016 by the Draft Law is 316 million. lv. less than the declared optimal needs of the structures of the Ministry. Several measures are provided for in respect of the planned staff funds to optimise those costs, which are foreseen for 2016. In 2015, action was taken to optimise the activities carried out in connection with security at the state border. A gradual optimization of 91 posts with around 509 officers of police positions to be replaced by persons working in the employment relationship is envisaged. A bill was prepared to amend and supplement the Ministry of Interior Act for optimizing the activities of the Ministry by removing some of them in state enterprises. The estimated number of staff as of 31 December 2015 is around 46 thousand employees, representing a 3.3 percent reduction compared to those currently actually employed. The estimated cost of maintenance is 191 million. lv. less than the requested optimal requirements for ensuring the structures of the Ministry and the determined capital expenditure funds are 75 million less than the requested. The cost of maintenance and other costs is reduced by 7 million. BGN and for capital expenditure are reduced by 1 million. lv. This means that the costs of maintenance and capital expenses thus determined under the draft budget for the Ministry of Interior for 2016 cannot be financially ensured the implementation of the main activities carried out by the Ministry's structures. It is extremely necessary to provide a new technique for police structures and at least 1500 new police cars to replace the old ones. The latest delivery of new cars to the Ministry of Interior was carried out in the distant 2008. The requested funds for maintenance under the budget of the Ministry of Interior have not been provided, leading to the inability to secure the uniformed staff with the necessary pleasure. The planned expenditure for the 2016 budget cannot provide funds for the maintenance and development of the National Early Warning and Disclosure System within 1 million. lv. In view of the above, Minister Bachvarova proposes that the expenditure on the draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2016 be increased: for maintenance by 7 million. lv. and for capital expenditure by 1 million BGN, or a total of 8 million. lv. A total of 30 million should be provided for in relation to the need for advance provision of activities in 2016 under projects and programmes of the European Union implemented by the structures of the Ministry of Interior. lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 The draft law is proposed to create a new para. 2, which provides for substantial changes to the security environment and the conditions for implementing specific policy areas and budgetary programmes, that the senior authorising officers concerned may make a reasoned proposal for changes to the established classification of expenditure by policy and budgetary programmes. On the planned amendments to the budget for the Ministry of Interior for 2015, the additional amounts, which, when updated, totalled 180 million. lv. Of that, 120 million. are for staff and are expected to be financially provided for the actual staff employed. The compensation obligations reported on 31 October 2015 to the staff of the exempted employees amounted to 30.5 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment In order to pay taxes, fees, administrative penalties, the Ministry of Interior's obligations to suppliers of fuels and lubricants, electricity, heat, telecommunications postal services, hardware maintenance, peripheral communication devices, there is a need to provide about 35 million more. lv. This is the real state and the budget assessment, and the desire to update is specifically targeted and justified, covering the highest level of urgency of needs. When presenting the draft budget of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the President of the Commission Evtim Kostadinov clarified that they were provided as a budget for the Commission 3 400 000 BGN. The planned funds will enable the tasks assigned to the Commission to be carried out for 2016. However, the President of the Commission also raised the question that this budget does not provide security funds for the sites mentioned in the Law. As regards the Personal Data Protection Commission, the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 provides for budgetary resources of BGN 2, 283 000, of which BGN 2 133 000. for current expenditure and 150 000 BGN for capital expenditure. The President of the Commission Mr Karadjov supports the budget policy at stake, but draws attention to the negative trend of the indicator "Personal" and notes the entry of new activities in 2017 and 2018, as the adoption of a new Data Protection Regulation is under way, which will require additional activities from the Commission. The draft of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 for the activities of the State Agency "State Reserve and Wartime Stocks" provides for budget funds of BGN 40 365 800. Mr Peev, President of the Commission, said that it does not reflect the real needs of the state in this area. The main problem is the commitments under the Law on mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum products, where there is no replacement for a third year in a row, that is, there is a default. The deficit is 112 million, which means that under this commitment that the state has undertaken in the pre-accession treaty to the European Union, it is obliged to store 30 days of oil and petroleum reserves. The representative of the Ministry of Finance Ms. Genova briefed the members of the committee on some major macroeconomic indicators. In the context of a limitation of expenditure for 2016, namely, to be 40% of gross domestic product, these are the opportunities that this bill has set out for the departments that have been commented on. The budget of the Ministry of Interior is increased by about 10%. The demands are much higher, but there are 95 million. Total increase compared to 2015. It's a 30 million-dollar allowance. increased. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance In this absolute increase two structural changes have been made to the budget of the Ministry of Interior. The return of DGBOP to the Ministry and the exit of the State Agency for Refugees, which next year will be in the budget of the Council of Ministers. In addition to all these amounts, there are 20 million. for national co-financing, which are for the implementation of projects under the Funds. They're in the budget, but they're in the form of transfers. There are 6 million in the central budget. for the Traffic Safety Fund. Also 3 million. Schengen. The discussion was attended by the President, Atanas Atanasov and the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who expressed a position related to the need for the withdrawal of § 9-16 in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 between the first and second votes of the Law. It was also expressed that at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order it is appropriate to attend the Minister of Finance, Vladislav Goranov for taking into account the issues raised by the MPs. As a result of the debates held the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with the vote 9..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u139	Thank you, dear General Atanasov. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. With the request of the rapporteurs, we have 15 reports to hear, summaries of reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention a summary of ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 November 2015, discussing the quoted bill. The main parameters of the bill in the part of the project are the following: 1. The draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The revenue foreseen for 2016 amounts to 160 million. lv. The proposed cost ceiling is close to 247 million. BGN 136 million for staff lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. lv. For agriculture and rural areas, 4.7 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. For the preservation and increase of forests and farmland and 15.5 million lv. for.................................................................................... In the context of current expenditure, 15 million have been established. lv. for the provision of a public service to protect against the harmful effects of the waters entrusted to the Irrigation Systems. These funds cannot be redirected for other purposes. The maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2016 is 108,5 million. BGN, the maximum amount of the new liabilities is 110,7 million. lv. 2. Under the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. The proposed cost ceiling of FTAs for 2016 is 367.5 million. lv. For the financing of non-financial corporations 300,4 million are provided. lv. The maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2016 is 326,4 million. BGN, the maximum amount of the new liabilities lv. Under the common agricultural policy. The single area payment scheme in 2016 provides for 1 41,6 million to be used. lv. European funds for direct payments to farmers. For the financing of market measures, the total budget for 2016 amounts to 124,8 million. BGN, of which 84.4 million lv. European funding and 40,4 million lv. National co-financing. For rural development, the funds that our country plans to absorb under EU programmes and pay for 2016 are 628.8 million. BGN, of which 517 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. national co-financing and advance payments. Under the Common Fisheries Policy. As of 2016, the Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Programme for the period 2014-2020 will be implemented and for 2016 the funds that our country plans to absorb under the European Union programmes and to pay are 17.6 million. BGN 13,2 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. national co-financing and advance payments. In addition, it is envisaged to maintain the tax preference for a reduced rate of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production, with 84 million established for this purpose. lv. It is also intended to extend the period of application of the VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops within the maximum permissible time limit until 31 December 2018. As an element of the main assumptions in the updated medium-term budget forecast, it is envisaged to increase the minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers from 300 BGN. at BGN 330, starting from 2016 3. On the update of the state budget for 2015 The Transitional and Final Provisions make amendments to the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, offering additional resources for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of 4 million. BGN, for payment of benefits in connection with staff cuts made in 2015 in the ministry system. The additional funds provided are 110,8 million for FTA. BGN required to finance the cost of the value added tax of municipalities under approved projects under the Rural Development Programme and under the Operational Programme for the Development of the Sector.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition, an increase is proposed in the planned transfers from the state budget to the European Union Fund Account of the Paying Agency to the Ministry of Agriculture at the amount of 370,7 million. lv. The funds are needed to refinance expenditure under the European programmes and funds and additional national co-financing, with a view to finalising by the end of 2015 the projects under the Rural Development Programme and the Development Programme for the Sector Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 5 votes against and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u141	Thank you, Mr. Christov. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mr. Hasan Ademov has the floor. The report of the Committee on Education and Science follows. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with an importer of the Council of Ministers The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 11 November 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Ministers of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova and Galab Donev; Biser Petkov and Vessela Karaivanova from the National Insurance Institute, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the social partners. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Minister Kalfin outlined the budgetary framework of policies to be implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2016 and the forecast data for 2017 and 2018. The general budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in 2016 is proposed to be 1 109 914.8 thousand. lv. This is an 8.5 million increase. lv. As compared to 2015 As regards the employment policy for 2016, expenditure of 99,484,0 thousand is foreseen. lv. The amount for the National Employment Action Plan of 73 million shall be retained. lv. In addition, in the area of the labour market under the European funds, funds of around 170 million will be provided. lv. For 2016 the effect during the programmes and measures will be expressed in the following: persons employed in the primary labour market 194 thousand; number of unemployed persons enrolled in adult training courses with funds from the state budget, 8 thousand. With regard to social protection policy and equal opportunities: Next year, 178 766,8 thousand will be allocated. lv. The funds are from the Republican budget. As regards the funds for raising children, the volume of the financial resource from 2015 is maintained, but the scope of the families who will receive support is extended. Increased help is envisaged for families with one child and families with three children. One-time childbirth assistance and one-time child adoption assistance increase. From the middle of the year the ceiling of income of people from family will grow from 350 to 400 BGN, which will extend the circle of families who will receive support for raising a child. The figures for the necessary funds are made at the amount of the guaranteed minimum income "65 BGN." For 2016, the average monthly number of persons and families to receive monthly social benefits is 57 thousand. 400 BGN, with the necessary funds of 52 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. One-off aid will receive 8,500 persons and families, and the funds for them amount to 2 million. lv. A resource of 618 million is available for life-level, income and demographic policy. lv. As regards the policy of integration of people with disabilities, the financial resource of 2015 amounted to 194 million. 502 thousand. £700. After the presentation of the 2016 Budget Project, a discussion took place, attended by MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Mariana Todorova, Hasan Ademov, Cornelia Ninova. The debates outlined remarks regarding the lack of analysis for the implementation of the state budget for 2015. No measures were laid down in the Draft Budget 2016 to generate economic and economic growth. No measures are provided for to stimulate consumption. With regard to the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the policy related to reducing social inequalities and improving quality of life does not appear to be a clear intention. With regard to employment policy, there must be an increase in funds for the National Employment Action Plan. As for increasing social service standards by 2.3%, MPs believe that this percentage is insufficient. Other questions were asked to which the MCC team will provide additional written analyses and answers. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 8 votes for the vote, 7 votes against the vote, and without abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. The report of the Committee on Education and Science follows. Commission President Milena Damyanova will brief us on the report, after which is the report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u144	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its regular meeting held on 11 November 2015, the Committee on Education and Science examined for first vote the Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Minister of Education and Science, Vanya Kastreva and Prof. Todor Tanev Kostadin Kostadinov "Deputy Ministers of Education and Science, Krasimir Valchev "General Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Alexandra Dimitrova " State Expert at the Department of State Expenditures " at the Ministry of Finance, Konstantin Iliev " Chief Expert at the Department of National Fund " at the Ministry of Finance, Akad. Stefan Vodenicharov Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Akad. Mr. Damian Damyanov Vice-President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, representatives of the academic community, trade union and employers' organizations in the field of secondary and higher education. The Commission received written opinions from the General Assembly of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, National Branch Syndicate The Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 in the part of the function "Education" was presented by the Minister of Education and Science Prof. Todor Tanev. The draft state budget increases the cost of education and puts it as a priority in government policy. Although, as a percentage of GDP, education expenditure is maintained at 2015 level, in nominal terms, the same growth is growing compared to this year. The total estimated expenditure for education 2016 is 3 120,5 million. BGN, which is 3.5% of GDP. The increase in education costs under the consolidated fiscal programme for 2016 compared to 2015 is 75.6 million. lv. The funds allocated to the pre-school and school education system for 2016 increased by 139.4 million. lv. and reach 2,295 million. lv. or 2.6% of gross domestic product. In the field of pre-school and school education, the following basic activities will be financed with the funds allocated: - the maintenance of activities for the education and training of children and students in kindergartens and schools lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - support equal access and support for the personal development of children and students - 266.9 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - development of kindergartens and schools............................................................................................ lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the implementation of national secondary education development programmes - 46 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - preservation and development of the cultural identity of children and students in Bulgarian communities abroad - 6.5 million. lv. The expenditure for higher education provided for for 2016 shall be maintained at the level of 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.). The transfer to state-owned universities amounted to 407.4 million. lv. As a result of the negative demographic trends next year, there will be a decrease in the number of students on the basis of which the support subsidy is also determined. The policies set out in Budget 2016 are in line with the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020 and are aimed at: - an increase in the part of the support for training provided on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market; - reduction in the funding of professional directions in higher education schools, which have received low quality assessment of training; - support the consolidation and optimization process of the system; - promoting training in priority professional directions and supporting the maintenance of protected specialties. For scientific activity in 2016 211.1 million BGN were provided. The budget subsidy for BAS increased from BGN 72,847 million. At 73,287 million. lv. The estimated expenditure for science under the Ministry of Education and Science's budget for 2016 is 28.2 million. lv. In the course of the discussion the MPs drew attention to the fact that for the first time education is one of the priorities of the government and this is reflected in the 2016 budget. Some of them expressed their approval of the fact that funds are provided for an increase in teachers' salaries, which will be secured with a growth of 5.7 per cent of the Single Cost Standard. It was said that three conditions are needed to implement the reform of secondary education: legislation, financing and good operational management. The first two of these conditions are already in place. The MPs expressed support for reforms in the field of higher education: the process of optimization of state universities; the additional funding of priority and protected specialties. A positive opinion was also expressed regarding the increase of the means of maintenance provided on the basis of a comprehensive assessment of the quality of the learning process. Part of the MPs identified the subsidy amount for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as insufficient. The question was raised as to the possibilities for increasing the subsidy provided for the "Science" function. The team of the Ministry of Education and Science answered the questions asked by the MPs and the guests present. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with results:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u145	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Next, a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. It will be presented by the Vice-President of the Commission Mr. Ivan Cholakov. The next report belongs to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its regular meeting, held on 11 November 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. Minister Krasen Kralev presented the Draft for the State Budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. He informed the MPs that the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 set costs of 71 million for the Ministry of Youth and Sports. 211,000. BGN, which is 7% more than 2015 In conclusion, Minister Kralev said that the priorities of the Ministry for 2016 are legislative changes to provide more funds for children's and youth sports. The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov presented this part of the draft budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which concerns the implementation of the employment policy for unemployed young people up to 29 years of age and in particular the implementation of the European Youth Guarantee. This budget programme provides for 73 million. BGN intended for all active measures on the labour market. The budget for 2016 of the State Agency for Child Protection is 1 million. 415 thousand. BGN, including 250 thousand in this amount. lv. for the national telephone line for children. By the Ministry of Health Mrs. Valentina Antonova presented the budget programme "Medico-social care for children in disabilities" included in the draft budget of the Ministry of Health for 2016. Following the discussion, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports voted as follows: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:................................................................................................................................................................... 3 votes.......................................................................................... 2. under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with an opinion from the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:............................................................................................................. 9 votes................................................................................................................................................ The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u147	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Following is the report of the Committee on Health, which will present to us her president, Dr. Daniela Daritkova. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 At its regular meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Health Committee examined and discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The bill and its motives were presented by the Minister of Health. In the course of the discussion, he noted that the draft budget for 2016 of the Ministry of Health planned a level of expenditure to ensure the financing of the programmes and activities that are paid by means of the budget of the Office under the current regulations. The total estimated expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2016 amounts to 436 541.3 thousand. BGN, of which 421 541.3 thousand lv. .. current costs and 15 000,0hil. lv. Capital expenditure. The budget of the Ministry of Health will finance the activities carried out by the public health budget structures, emergency aid, stationary psychiatric assistance, medical and social care for children, treatment abroad and others. National health programmes will be financially provided, providing vaccines for compulsory immunizations and reimmunizations, as well as training to acquire a specialty in the health system for the designated places of government procurement. During the discussion, Deputy Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mr. Kiril Ananiev noted that for 2016 budget funds of 4.5 percent of the country's gross domestic product were provided for. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 &amp; 2:.............................. 12............................................................................................................................................ 1. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Health suggests to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 by the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u149	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. The Vice-President of the Commission will report the People's Representative Svilen Ivanov. The next report is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva Minister, Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov and Mr. Boyko Malinov Deputy Ministers, Mrs. Iva Talanova Director from the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Nikolina Apostolova, Senior Expert at the Directorate of State Expenditure and Mr. Angelov, State Expert at the Directorate of National Fund. Minister Vasileva presented the draft state budget in the part of the Environment and Budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, stressing that the prosperity of Bulgarian society in the long term depends on the prevention of environmental degradation and the introduction of sustainable models of production and consumption, tailored to the capacity and opportunities for restoring ecosystems. The State Budget Act 2016 defines revenue of 48 000 thousand. BGN, at 10 030 thousand lv. for Budget 2015, or a significant increase due to a new approach in the accounting of public fees collected under the Water Act, which is in favour of the Environmental Protection Activities Management Organisation. The part of the expenditure includes staff, maintenance and capital expenditure, with the total expenditure included in the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water amounting to BGN 44 482 000. The estimated expenditure of the Ministry of Environment for 2016 is the highest for the policy on the conservation and use of the components of the environment and 20 163 thousand. BGN, at 19 766,9 for 2015, for the policy in the field of the National Environmental Monitoring System and Information Security. BGN, increase by 300,0 thousand lv. Compared to 2015, and to the programme BGN, at 14,600.0 for 2015. The other significant costs are for storage, strengthening and restoration of ecosystems, species and genetic resources, integrated water management and waste management. Mrs. Vasileva further pointed out what will be realized with the help of transfers and funds from PUDOS and what funds are envisaged for environmental projects of municipalities. After the opening of the debates regarding the bill took the MPs: Borislav Velikov, expressing support for the project and raising questions about the water sector, the funds for environmental projects, their distribution and subsequent control, the co-financing of the Operational Programme Chavdar Georgiev, who expressed an unpleasant opinion on the budget as a whole, with questions about the budget funds and the connection with the operational programmes and will implement the priority activities; Georgi Bozhino for the expected revenue from fees and the solution of waste problems, including the funds from the PPOOS; Ivan Stankov on the main directions of expenditure and strengthening the vulnerable directions; Manol Genov with a question about the closure of illegal landfills received comprehensive answers from the Minister. Mr. Svilen Ivanov, after calling for other speeches and gratitude for the participation of the management of the Ministry of Environment in the meeting, ended the debates and announced the vote on the bill, after which the Committee on Environment and Water supported it by 10 votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission supports the Draft Law and its environmental performances and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The President of the Commission, the People's Representative Grozdan Karadjov, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We apply the Commission's report in writing, and I will read only a summary under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting of 11 November 2015 was attended by Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with a team from the Ministry. They presented the bill. The allocated own revenue under the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which is administered by the Central Management and the Secondary Officers for each of the years of the period 2016 - 2018, amounts to 55 613,5 thousand. lv. About 42% of them are intended to be generated from state fees collected under Tariff No 5 for fees collected in the system of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Of the total expenditure for 2016 1 439 132.7 thousand. BGN, 752 331,2 thousand is envisaged. lv. to be provided by accounts for EU funds and 431 590.3 thousand. lv. It is the central budget of the European Union. The funds received from the Republican budget in the form of a subsidy to the State-owned company "Transport construction and recovery" amounted to 1,400 thousand. lv. and for the State-owned enterprise "Societal construction and recovery" "Successful construction and recovery" "500 thousand." lv. The funds are intended for the performance of the public tasks entrusted to them. During the presentation of the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, it was also noted that under the Postal Services Act, the postal operator with an obligation to carry out the universal postal service. "Bulgarian Post Office" receives compensation from the state budget when the obligation to carry out this service leads to net costs and constitutes an unfair financial burden for it. The amount of the subsidy for the Bulgarian Posts is 12 500 thousand, which was read with the Draft State Budget Act for 2016. lv. The budget of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2016 was presented to the members of the Commission. The revenue provided for the CRC's budget for 2016 amounts to 60 000 thousand. BGN, including revenue from state fees lv. The planned capital costs amount to 1,651 thousand. lv. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes, 1 vote abstention and 3 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. The President of the Commission, Polina Karastoyanova, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u154	Colleagues, I present to your attention a summary of the Commission report. The full text is provided in accordance with the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. ♪ I can't believe under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The Committee on Culture and Media at a meeting held on 17 November 2015 discussed a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Finance, Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television and the Council for Electronic Media took part in the discussion. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mr. Boel Banov presented the budget to the Ministry of Culture. The State budget for 2016 was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The 2016 draft budget provides for expenditure by the Ministry of Culture of 139 million. 547 thousand. 500 BGN, of which for current expenditure is 134 million. $863,000. £800. and for capital expenditure 4 million 683 thousand. £700. The estimated amount of the central budget for the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency amounts to 4 million. 385 thousand. lv. and is intended to finance activities which the Agency carries out as a national independent information institute of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the Council for Electronic Media, the 2016 State Budget Bill provides for revenue of 1 million. 200,000. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the 235 thousand. lv. The 2016 State Budget Bill provides for a transfer to the Bulgarian National Radio at the amount of 42 million. 112 thousand. lv. The expenses of the Bulgarian National Radio are for the implementation of the main objectives of the public operator for the preparation, creation and dissemination of national and regional radio programmes. The capital expenditure under art. 70, para. 4 t. 2 of the Radio and Television Act amounted to 3 million. 900,000. lv. For the Bulgarian National Television in the State Budget Bill 2016 the amount is 65 million. 147,000. lv. Capital expenditure, including under art. 70, para. 4 t. 2 of the Radio and Television Act amounted to 8 million. $100,000. lv. The funds for the Bulgarian National Television are mainly for the creation and distribution of the national programs BNT 1, BNT 2, BNT HD, BNT World and regional programs. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: there is no objection to it; there are no abstentions; there are no abstentions; 2. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:.......................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 by an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. Report of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Commission President Boyka Marinska will report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its regular meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints discussed a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Lydia Ateva, Head of Department at the Department of State Aids and Real Estate, Mrs. Margarita Borisova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Aids and Real Sectors, Mrs. Evgenia Orlova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditures, by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Nadezhda Petkova, Senior Expert at the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids, and Ms. Milena Arsova, Chief Expert at the Directorate. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Orlova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditures. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 is accompanied by the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2016-2018. The 2016 Budget Framework is based on the updated forecast with the main macroeconomic indicators, a realistic estimate of revenue, as well as on restrictive spending planning. The expectations for the real growth of gross domestic product in 2016 is that it will reach 2.1 percent. In the medium term, the policy for gradual consolidation, expressed in an annual step to improve the budgetary position around 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product, is maintained. The revised deficit target for the consolidated fiscal programme amounts to 2% of gross domestic product, at 2.5 per cent in the spring of this year. The proposed revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme for 2016 as well as in the medium term retain a relatively sustainable level. The revenue for 2016 proposed in the Bill amounts to 33 million. lv. General spending in the medium term shows a trend of reduction from gross domestic product in 2016 and make a major contribution to consolidation to achieving the deficit targets. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 provides subsidies for non-profit legal entities of 65 million. BGN, including: on the budgets of the ministries 54 million lv. And 10 million. lv. on the central budget. The terms and procedure for the allocation of funds from the central budget and the budgets of the relevant ministries for non-profit legal entities are determined in accordance with special laws which correspond to the provision of art. 4 of the Non-profit Legal Entities Act. In Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1 of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 lists 28 non-profit legal entities with subsidies from the central budget. These are organizations that are for people with disabilities, war veterans, rehabilitation and rehabilitation units, disadvantaged citizens, as well as the Union of the People's Chitalishtes, the Bulgarian Red Cross, the Rila World mansion, the Rila Monastery, the National Donor's Fund The funds provided for are intended to support the implementation of the relevant policy. Compared to the previous 2015, the state budget project envisions an increase of more than 2 million. lv. for non-governmental organisations defined in the relevant special laws. The Ministry of Youth and Sports receives 46 million. BGN, which is 1 million. $800,000. lv. more to finance associations and federations. For the first time is provided funding to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as a distributor of funds to associations and associations 435 thousand. BGN, as well as the National Association of People with Disabilities with Disabilities " 52 thousand. lv. According to Annex 5 to art. 49, para. 2 of the Bulgarian Red Cross Bill provides for a capital transfer of 1 million. lv. After a debate, opinions and opinions were held, the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organizations and citizens' complaints with 8 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Here you go, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At a regular meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Mrs. Emil Velinov, Director of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Mrs. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Mr. Emil Velinov, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Nikola Kazakov, Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs and other representatives of the above institutions. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev. Of the institutions represented, the budget of which is examined in the Commission, only two are the authorising officers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. As regards the secondary authorising officers with a budget, it has been noted that the set parameters are not definitive and a change of their budgets is possible after the assessment of their principals. Mr. Tanev said he would answer all the questions asked to him. For the institution Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is provided a budget of 2 million. Seven hundred and seventy-three thousand. BGN, 426 thousand. lv. more than the 2015 budget, Mrs. Maya Manolova expressed satisfaction with the planned increase in the budget for the institution, which will allow it to effectively carry out its main functions. For the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, estimated costs amount to 2 million. 248 thousand. BGN, increased by 156 thousand. BGN, compared to the 2015 budget Ms. Dzhumalieva said that the 2016 budget is slightly increased compared to the 2015 budget, but is also not sufficient to meet the Commission's commitments. In the absence of sufficient funds, regional representatives have not yet been appointed in all district cities. Ms. Dzhumalieva said that a budget of 3 million is needed for the normal activity of the committee in charge of it. lv. The subsidy granted for faiths registered under the Religions Act is of the same amount as in 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. £500,000. For the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad are divided 850 thousand. BGN, for repair and construction of temples and monasteries of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the country...................................................................................... Four hundred and ten thousand. lv.; for repair and construction of prayer homes of the Muslim religion in the Republic of Bulgaria lv.; for repair and construction of prayer homes of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Bulgaria....................................................................................... lv. Mr. Velinov informed the MPs that 291 temples, 22 monasteries, 45 mosques, 10 prayer homes of other religions were renovated by 31 October 2015 and 9 new churches were built. The State Agency for Refugees under the Council of Ministers has planned the budget for 2016 at the amount of 8 million. lv. Mr. Nikola Kazakov said that the planned funds are extremely insufficient for her activities. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their support for the 2016 Budget, expressing concern and committed to looking for an opportunity to increase funds for the State Agency for Refugees between the first and second votes of the Bill. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 6 votes against the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502 01 86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Commission report on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at its regular meeting held on 12 November 2015 examined at first vote the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of two state committees. By the Commission for Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests: Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, interim acting President, and Mrs. Diana Kunzova, Director of the Financial and Administrative Services Directorate; by the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, Mr. Ivo Ivanov, Vice-President, and Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova, Member. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission has parliamentary control over the activities of these committees and, accordingly, the MPs have taken into account the parameters laid down for them in the State Budget Bill. During the debates, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov was heard, acting President of the Commission on a temporary basis, who gave an opinion that the envisaged budget of 1 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. for 2016, it is fully sufficient to secure the normal activity of the Commission. Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, assessed the planned budget of 6 million. 132,000. lv. sufficient for the Commission's work. He noted that if this proposal was adopted by the National Assembly, these funds would take the Commission out of a very critical state that it is now in. This budget will enable the number of inspectors to be increased and hence the scope and quality of checks. Members of the National Assembly Valentin Nikolov, Ivan Ivanov, Metodi Andreyev, Atanas Zafirov and Yanko Yankov took part in the discussion. After the end of the debates, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee held a 5 votes vote with results, 3 votes against, and no abstentions, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here's a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u162	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its meeting held on 13 November 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds (KEWKEF) examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission participated: Mr. Kiril Ananiev "Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Manuela Milosheva "Director of the Department of National Fund" in the Ministry of Finance, and Mr. Angelov "State Expert in the same Directorate." The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, which is accompanied by the updated medium-term budgetary forecast (SBB) for the period 2016 "2018," provides for the following parameters under the consolidated fiscal programme (SFP): - Revenue, aid and donations: 33 015,7 million BGN, or 37,4% of gross domestic product (GDP); - expenditure and contribution to the European Union budget: 34 815.7 million BGN, or 39,4% of GDP; - deficit: 1,800 million. BGN, or 2% of GDP. The forecasts for GDP at current prices for 2016 amounted to 88 282,4 million. BGN, with real economic growth expected to be 2.1%. The planned values of both the deficit and government debt remain within the reference values of the Stability and Growth Pact of the European Union. Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the general budget of the European Union. Our country's main financial commitment to membership in the European Union is expressed in the national contribution to the European Union budget. For 2016, it is intended to be 1 009,7 million. lv. Bulgaria's estimated contribution figures include an additional amount in relation to the expected entry into force in 2016 of Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the EU's own resources system (2014/335/EU, Euratom), which will apply retroactively from 1 January 2014. In this respect, the European Commission will recalculate the annual contributions of the Member States for 2014 and 2015. According to preliminary forecasts of the European Commission in 2016, Bulgaria will have to pay an additional total for 2014 and 2015 around 33.2 million. lv. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 October 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). It is envisaged that the aggregate amount of revenue, aid and donations under EU funds for 2016 will be 2 512.4 million. BGN, or 2.8% of the forecast GDP. These include accounts for European Union funds of the National Fund, the State Fund of the European Union and other international programmes and contracts to which the European Union's accounting regime applies. The estimated aggregate expenditure for 2015 under European programmes and projects amounts to 4.2% of GDP. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. European funds and 1 037.5 million lv. National co-financing. National Fund: When planning for 2016, account is taken of the replacement of the old and new programming periods, the different rules for each of them and the stages in which the different operational programmes are located. In this regard, the total revenue of the National Fund for European Union Funds for 2016 is estimated to be 1,931,3 million. BGN 2 963.3 million and the costs incurred by BGN 2 963.3 million. lv. The State Fund is expected to be 418.4 million in the European Union Fund account for 2015. EUR 500,0 million. lv. Common agricultural policy: Under the first pillar of the CAP, funds will be paid to support farmers under production-linked direct payments and market support schemes. The single area payment schemes in 2016 provide for 1 billion to be used. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The total budget for financing market measures for 2016 amounts to 124,8 million. BGN, of which 84.4 million lv. are EU funds and 40.4 million. lv. represent national co-financing. Common fisheries policy: The funds our country plans to absorb under EU programmes and pay for the common fisheries policy for 2016 are 17.6 million. BGN 13,2 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. national co-financing and advance payments. Other international programmes and contracts to which the regime of European Union funds accounts applies: Revenue, expenditure and corresponding co-financing from the State budget under other European Union funds accounts and other international programmes and contracts subject to the European Union fund accounts regime, among which are: European Fund In 2016 the planned revenue amounted to 162,7 million. BGN, and the costs of 237.3 million. lv. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 10 votes for the European Union, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Report of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll introduce you to a summary of: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Security Services Control Commission, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Electronic Communications Act on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Julian Haralampiev, Deputy Head of the National Security Service, Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence, Mr. Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Commission on Information Security, Mr. Georgi Gatev, Deputy Chairman of the National Office for the Control of Special Intelligence, Mr. Tsvetan Kitov, Chairman of the State Agency of Technical Operations, Mrs. Nadezhda Genova, Director of the Department of State Expenditures at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ivan Benchev, Deputy Director of the Department of Planning, Programming and Budget in the Ministry of Defence, and Mr. Georgi Krastev, advisor in the Ministry of Finance. The representatives of the interested institutions presented the Draft of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, in the part of the budget of the security activities implemented by the State Agency of National Security, the National Security Service, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the Ministry of Defence, the State Commission on Information Security, the National Office for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds and the State Agency of Technical Operations. Ms. Nadezhda Genova, Director of the Department of State Expenditures and Finance presented the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, marking its main indicators. In connection with the consolidation of public spending in the medium term, changes are proposed to some provisions in the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on State Agency of National Security and the Law on the National Security Service, the Law on State Agency of Intelligence and the Law on Special Intelligence. During the debates, regarding the bill took the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Dimitar Lazarov, Dimitar Dubov, Atanas Merdjanov, Kostadin Markov, Stefan Zhelev and Atanas Atanasov. The main issues that were addressed were the budgetary indicator of current and capital expenditure. As an expression of the overall reduction in expenditure incurred for the SANS, the issue was raised with regard to clarifying the need to fill in the stats not employed by the Agency in view of the lack of funds. The issue of securing insufficient resources for the implementation of DAR's operational activities is also discussed. After the discussion, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence funds and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 12 votes, 5 votes against and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Dedev. Report of the Commission for Monitoring of the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission "Please come in, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its meeting held with the Energy Commission on 12 November 2015, the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The meeting was attended by the same people who attended the meeting of the Energy Committee because the meeting was a joint meeting. The bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 in its part for the energy sector was presented by the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. Its presentation showed that the costs to the Ministry of Energy amounted to a total of 210 million. 192,000. BGN 94 million 633 thousand. lv. They are from European funds and 115 million. 641 thousand. lv. they're from the Republican budget. They will be used to secure the activities of the Ministry and the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development, as well as the subsidies for non-financial enterprises for the Fund for the Development of Nuclear Facilities and the Fund for Radioactive Waste, subsidies for non-financial enterprises, provided for to compensate for the costs of the MEK as a public supplier of electricity from renewable sources at preferential prices and funds for implementing financial measures under the Energy Act and the Energy Efficiency Act. In conclusion, Mrs. Petkova said that the defined framework continues for the Ministry of Energy to perform its functions fully. Mr. Ivan Ivanov presented the budget of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, explaining the way the Commission is financed and the implementation of the legal provisions. In its opinion, the Commission's budget, as provided for in the 2016 budget. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 234 thousand. BGN is an extremely insufficient point of view of its increasing powers and obligations and asked to be reviewed by establishing a fair one. The Commission's proposal for energy and water regulation, which is justified by an in-depth analysis, is that the budget amounts to 6 million. 202,000. lv. Mr. Boris Stanimirov, Vice-President of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, presented its budget, which is set at 4 million. 127,000. lv. In the case of covered revenue from licence fees, fines and other charges of 7,5 million. lv. In view of the responsibilities of the AYAR for 2016 in relation to the assessment of the NPP's application, the request for an extension of the period of operation of the fifth energy block, as well as of other important nuclear activities, was justified to increase the budget to 4 million. 571 thousand. BGN, as the increase of 444 thousand. lv. It is fully used to increase staff costs. In the subsequent discussion, representatives of the Bulgarian Socialist Party said they fully support the justifications of the KEWRC and AYAR for the need to increase their budgets, but also stressed that they would not support the State Budget Bill for 2016, as it now reflects a very conservative approach in the formation of the spending part. The representatives of the Patriotic Front and GERB support the Draft Budget with recommendations to the budget of KEWRC and AYR, which should reflect the fully justified requests for increase on the respective feathers. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: for 10 votes, against 7 abstentions. As a result of the discussion, the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. The last 23rd report has the honour to present to us the Chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad, the national representative Rumen Yonchev. Here you are, Mr. Yonchev, and thank you for your patience to wait for the last time to submit your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and for your patience. I'll introduce you to my fellow Members. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad on a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. At its meeting held on 11 November 2015, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 in its part on Policies towards Bulgarians Abroad. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Hristo Angelichin, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs; from the Ministry of Education and Science: Mrs. Sonya Krastanova The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad examined the draft budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Education and Science as part of their policies towards Bulgarians abroad, as well as the draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad. The draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, defined as the programme "Other activities and services" within the framework of the general budget of the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mr. Boris Vangelov. The funds allocated to the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad for 2016 are the same as in budget 2015. In 2014 the budget amounted to BGN 758 000, i.e. they were reduced by BGN 114 400. Mr. Vangelov expressed his opinion that in the perspective the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad will face serious difficulties in fulfilling its functions and tasks, given the constantly increasing activity related mainly to the certification of Bulgarian origin. He pointed out that there is a need to increase the draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad in the amount of 300 000 BGN, which will allow the creation of a third Directorate of Bulgarian Origin. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was presented by Mr. Hristo Angelichin, who said that the budget of BGN 122 600 000. is assessed as insufficient and threatens the quality of the performance of the functions and responsibilities of the Foreign Ministry. At this time, the ministry will receive an additional 4 000 000 leva. on the budget of 118 000 000 BGN, the wish is for another 6 500 000 BGN. The draft budget of the Ministry of Education and Science under the Programme "Education of Bulgarians abroad" was presented by Mrs. Sonya Krastanova, who stressed that for 2016 a budget was estimated for the Bulgarian communities abroad of BGN 9 562 000, compared to 2015, a growth of BGN 500 000 is foreseen for 2016 specifically for the Bulgarians abroad. Ms. Krastanova explained that the funds were allocated to the two Bulgarian public schools in Prague and Bratislava 1 150 000 BGN.; for the National Program "Born language and culture" which provides 154 schools in different countries.......................................................................................; for Decree No 334/11, which provides 139 Sunday schools abroad - BGN 6 500 000.; for PMS No 103/93 of the Council of Ministers for the implementation of educational policy among Bulgarians abroad - BGN 1 150 000; for the Tarakli University of the Republic of Moldova - BGN 300 000 During the discussion MPs expressed their views in support of the increase of funds for the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. Mr. Yonchev expressed his opinion that the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not provide for a separate programme for working with Bulgarians abroad, but only in the program "Management of foreign representative offices and support of Bulgarian citizens abroad." After the discussion, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 4 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-18.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Yonchev. Thank you, fellow Members, for participating in today's plenary day. Tomorrow, Thursday, November 19, 2015, the beginning of the plenary day of 9:00 p.m. We continue with the motives of an importer and debates on the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, No 502-01-86, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2015. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
