ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! There's a quorum. [[Ringing]] Which means we can begin our first session of the Fourth Session of the Forty-third National Assembly. You all look very nice. I hope that we will also work controversially to adopt the laws that will become laws for the benefit of society. You know that it is the first Wednesday of the month, which is why the groups have the right to make proposals for inclusion on the agenda in descending order. On this first Wednesday of the month, the first proposal is entitled to make the parliamentary group of political party GERB, which proposes the first item to be the Second Voting of the Draft Law on pre-school and school education, with importers Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The bill was tabled on 21 November 2014 and adopted at the first vote on 5 February 2015. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria proposes a second point to be the First Voting of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 21 May 2015. There is a proposal received by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which does not meet the requirements of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There are no proposals from the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center and the Parliamentary Group of the Party I suggest to your attention the Programme Project, which has the following type: 3. First vote on the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015, extension. This is proposed to be t. 1 for Thursday 3 September 2015 4. First vote on the Draft Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction. Importers sv. Valentin Radev and a group of MPs, 8 July 2015 5. Second vote on the Preschool and School Education Bill. Importers supposed Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, 21 November 2014. Adopted at first vote on 5 February 2015. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2014, was adopted at the first vote on 26 June 2015. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015. 8. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 May 2015. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 June 2015. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015. 12. A bill ratifying the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers, July 17th This Decision shall 13. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which will be held today - Wednesday, 2 September 2015, at 12:00 p.m. 14. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, which will be held on Friday at 11:00 p.m. Please vote on the Programme in the part to be voted on. They voted 195 MPs: 151 against 5, abstention 39. Program accepted. We have received proposals under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the National Representative Mithat Metin. He proposes to include himself as an item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period from 2 to 4 September 2015. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 554-01-141, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 22 July 2015. And another proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: "On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to include as a item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period from 2 to 4 September 2015. Draft for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 554-01-140, submitted by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 22 July 2015. Both proposals do not correspond to art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which is why he will not put them to the vote. You're welcome, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, the two proposals that we have made with colleague Mithat Metin do not really meet the requirements of art. 73, para. 6 but meet the requirements of art. 85, para. 4, i.e. partially meet the requirements of Art. 4. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I call on you, however, to let plenary decide, in view of the fact that local elections are approaching, and the proposals contained in these bills are sufficiently important and pressing. I think that all political forces have an interest in resolving this issue in view of the upcoming local elections, namely the dramatically low threshold of preferences for local elections that are coming. With such a threshold, it really does not matter whether the candidate is the leader of the councillor list or the last one on the list. All will compete on a common basis and with 20 preferences the latter can be the first. If you tell me that this is fair and is not a replacement of the vote of the Bulgarian voters, tell him health! I therefore really call on you to put these proposals to the vote. Let the plenary decide, however, in view of the conscience and political positions of each parliamentary political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Without questioning your political considerations, one of the duties of the President of the National Assembly is to comply with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. In para. 3 of art. 50 describes what such bills should comply with. They were imported on July 22nd. They didn't pass a two-month period. There are no reports of any committee. I think it's just... On this basis, I will not allow this proposal to be voted on. The communication received bills and draft resolutions from 29 July to 1 September 2015: On 29 September 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/994 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 29 September 2015 to 25 September 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 29 September 2015 to 25 September 2020. "Project to amend and The importer is Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance. Concomitant committees: the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 29 July 2015, a Bill on Accounting with the Importer of the Council of Ministers was adopted. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism are accompanying. On 31 July, a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the Implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE for the Destruction of Missile Fuel Stocks, Liquid Fuel Components, Protocol No 1 for the Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the Implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE for the Destruction of Missile Fuel Stocks, Liquid Fuel Components and Protocol No 2 for the Amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for the Implementation of the Project between Bulgaria and the OSCE for the Destruction of Missile Fuel Stocks, Components of Liquid Missile Fuel. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Defence Committee. The accompanying committees are: the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 31 July 2015, a Draft Law amending the State Staff Act with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs was adopted. The lead committee is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is attached. A Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code was tabled on 31 July. The importers are Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Shishkov, Dimitar Delchev and Dimitar Tanev. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission is accompanying. On 31 July 2015, the Annual Youth Report 2014 was submitted with the attached Draft Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. On July 31st, a draft decision was received to amend the Decision establishing a Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. On 5 August, a Draft Law for the Management of Funds from the European Structural Investment Funds was adopted with an importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance as the leading committee. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government are accompanying. On 5 August, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Assistance Act was introduced. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Legal Affairs are accompanying. On 5 August, a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2014 was received again. The Supreme Judicial Council was the importer. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 6 August there was a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylums and Refugees with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order are accompanying. On 6 August there was a Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Amendment of Punishment and Detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Once again on 6 August we have received a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Amendment and the Agreement on Amendment, Supplement and Continuation of the Agreement on Grants under the Programme "Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee is the Committee on Health. The accompanying committee shall be the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 12 August, a Public Procurement Act was adopted with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government are accompanying. On 12 August, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products of the European Union was introduced again. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is leading, and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is accompanying. On August 19th, a bill was introduced to amend and supplement the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Environment and Water and is accompanying the Committee on Health and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 21 August 2015, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the accompanying Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 27 August 2015, a Draft Law for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Gurnsey for the exchange of information on tax matters was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead, along with the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 31 August 2015, a Bill on Industrial Property Representatives was submitted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the leading one, along with the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 1 September 2015, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers, leading the Committee on Legal Affairs. We'll continue with the messages. On 31 July 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2015 to 31 July 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2015 to 31 July 2020. No. AD 507-00-10 was received in the National Assembly a Report of the Chairman of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 June 2015. "25 July 2015 and Protocol No 41 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 31 July 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2015 to 31 July 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 31 July 2015 to 31 July 2020. No 502-00-64, the National Assembly received for information a Plan for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, adopted by Decision No 580 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. The material was provided to the parliamentary groups, to the Presidents of the Standing Committees and by e-mail to the Members of the National Assembly. The Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly on 19 August 2015. The annual programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the Members of the National Assembly in the Library. On August 19, 2015, the National Assembly presented its own initiative and adopted by the Economic and Social Council Resolution on the Council Recommendation on the National Reform Programme of Bulgaria for 2015 and contains a Council Opinion on Bulgaria's Convergence Programme for 2015. The material is provided to the Standing Committees whose portfolio is embedded in the Resolution and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Final Audit Report No 066-02-00-115 was received by the National Assembly with an opinion for an audit of the report of the budgetary expenditures of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. From 1 August to 2 September 2015, four materials from the National Statistical Institute were received to the National Assembly, containing results from statistical studies concerning: (a) information for June 2015 on the following indicators: R & D indexes in the section (b) information on consumer surveillance July 2015, employees and average gross salary in the second quarter of 2015; (c) the information for the second quarter of 2015 on gross domestic product; (d) information on consumer price indices for July 2015; (e) information on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in 2015 and a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic producer prices in July 2015. The materials are available to the MP in the Library of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act in the National Assembly received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets for the half-year of 2015 of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Interior, the State Fund....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee, to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're done texting. Before moving on to the voted agenda, parliamentary tradition at the beginning of a session has statements on behalf of parliamentary groups. At the Conference of Presidents we agreed that these statements should be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio, which is also a parliamentary tradition. However, the Rules require a vote. Please vote whether the statements of the parliamentary groups should be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Vote 172 MPs: 168, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. The first statement has the largest parliamentary group. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB is the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The upcoming political season will be marked by fateful political actions and reforms for the country. We are entering a time that will show how productive the formula is. Who is working for reforms and who is opposed. There is no room for political rhetoric from the positions of populism. As president of the largest parliamentary group in the Bulgarian Parliament, I am satisfied with the agreement reached in parliament with great effort on the most urgent topics of the political debate. I am convinced that the parliamentary group of GERB is invariably working precisely in this direction. Thanks to the efforts of the National Assembly and the government, Bulgaria managed to preserve itself as an island of financial and political stability in the region. At the same time, the situation in neighbouring Greece, as well as the political crisis in neighbouring Turkey, led to new parliamentary elections in both countries. Task No 1 in the internal policy plan is to finalise the work on the amendments agreed before the parliamentary vacation in the Constitution concerning judicial reform. There is hardly a Bulgarian who is not convinced that reforms in justice can overcome the mass sense of a deficit of justice in our society. Here is also the public expectation that coherence will become the norm of political communication in our country, because changes in the Constitution are only possible when consensus between political formations in parliament. It is time to distinguish between the cheap solo populist appearances of some politicians from the parliamentary tribune in front of multiple cameras and microphones and the politically responsible behaviour of those who choose the difficult path of staged but persistent imposition of modern and working legislation. Here is the place to mention that the GERB Parliamentary Group shares the opinion of the Justice Minister that an extremely good interim result has been achieved, as there are already prerequisites for judicial reform to go to the next level. Of course, our efforts to reform the judiciary are also strongly linked to continuing the fight against corruption. This is why this week the National Assembly will consider at first reading the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among those holding senior public positions. From the GERB Parliamentary Group, we are confident that these efforts should continue in the direction of strengthening intolerance towards corruption at high levels in the state and society. A successful example in this direction, which we have already proved and practically, is the fight against smuggling and the grey economy. With the will of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov special mixed teams were formed by representatives of state institutions who investigate all signals of smuggling and irregularities concerning the damage of the state budget. As a result of these actions, the State's revenue to date is more than 2 billion. BGN, compared for the same period last year with the government of the triple coalition with Minister Plamen Oresharski. It is expected that in 2015 the state will collect nearly 800 million. lv. more than VAT compared to 2014 Social reform is plentiful by the philosophy of the possible. We strive to create realistic expectations in people. We are trying to ensure that our economic environment and the social status of people benefits and payments are adequate. We are also working steadily on changes in labour legislation to ensure a flexible and dynamic labour market and to reduce unemployment. We will continue to take into account the steps in the pension reform with the demographic and socio-economic realities in the country. We will proceed to increasing deinstitutionalization of social services for children with disabilities and children deprived of parental care. Our ultimate goal is to gradually and continuously increase the living standards of all social and age groups of the population. Understandably, health reform is at the heart of public, media and expert interest. We strongly support the model of healthcare, which is characterized by an even distribution of resources and with equal access for people to quality health care and financial predictability. The legislative decisions adopted in the last plenary session gave practical results by increasing the revenues from health contributions. We will support the introduction of binding health card obligations and financial stabilisation of the system through effective regulatory decisions to control drug expenditure. We strongly state that the GERB Parliamentary Group will monitor the transparent presentation and consensus implementation of structural reforms in emergency and hospital assistance. We will insist on clarity in determining the basic and additional package of medical activities as a guarantee of the rights of health insured persons. We cannot help but put among our top priorities the maintenance of a high level of national security. Bulgaria, as a member of the European Union, must more actively and insistently defend its national interest in seeking common solutions to the refugee crisis. Refugees who pass into neighbouring countries of Bulgaria make this task top priority. Lessons should be learnt from the current state of work with refugees in Bulgaria and targeted to seek European assistance and support. The most important thing, however, is to speak openly, because people remain convinced that this is a taboo topic. The openness and transparency of the debate on refugees could change public attitudes and contribute to more tolerant and humane moods among Bulgarians. Protests against the ghettos and domestic crime among Roma smolder and periodically revive, often and for purely political reasons. It is not for individual criminal acts that are really harassing the population to be left without consequences of justice, because sooner or later they grow into interethnic hostility and intolerance. GERB's parliamentary group will react with a package of initiatives to end the huge national tragedy caused by constant severe accidents on the country's roads. We will fight to achieve a lasting trend in the decline of severe catastrophes and to save human life. Today's vote is undoubtedly an important event on the calendar of the new political season. However, it should not be burdened with a hidden political context. Developing the election hysteria would be extremely unfortunate and directly dangerous to the key moment in which the country's reforms are located. Maintaining the tone of a permanent campaign is an expression of political frustration and a certain step back from the political consensus on national priorities that GERB seeks. From this tribune, I would like to state firmly that the GERB Parliamentary Group will not support changes to the electoral legislation at the last moment, because this is not in force of democratic traditions, nor is it beneficial for the election process itself. A month and a half before the local vote, we aim to introduce citizens to successful practices in Bulgarian municipalities. We have always claimed that one of our most important criteria for well done work is that the results of it be visible. In these elections GERB goes to win the tenth consecutive victory. This only proves how consistent we are in our efforts to keep the voter's trust and what efforts we are making to keep our local party structures in good shape. We are convinced that the local vote GERB will be able to win another round in its heavy battle with populism. Assuming that the slogans of a party's campaign are the essence of its aspirations, the political path of GERB could be described as follows: GERB guarantees open governance to prove that Bulgaria can; we have the will to build our country because there is no longer time to waste; it is time for stable Bulgaria and for visible results. The consistency of our political ideas is also evident from the continuity of these slogans over the years, and this is a prerequisite for a stable political future. We wish that the new political season would pass under the sign of reforms and not under the sign of their blaming, because we from GERB will describe as a step back any attempt the national consensus reached on important public topics before the vacation to be traded electionally. The short-term small victories of some parties have a very high price when minimizing the parliamentary consensus. It is time for people to know which MPs work for the public interest and who represent themselves primarily in parliament. It is time to adopt by consensus a modern and working budget, to demonstrate joint efforts to improve the economic environment and business environment in Bulgaria. There was a time when people needed parliamentary spectacles and it filled them up. Now such spectacles only lead to hatred and alienation. We are doomed to be united if we claim that we are working devotedly and for the benefit of the public interest! It is the only way we will have a good reputation as Bulgarian politicians! I wish success to all MPs during the new political season! [[Applause from the majority.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, the Chairman of the group, the People's Representative Mihail Mikov. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, at the beginning of the fourth session there is also a sign from this morning which shows the attitude to the National Assembly, which it managed to gather only for a year: we were welcomed with tomatoes here, at the entrance of the National Assembly! [[Noise and lines of majority.]] This is an expression of attitude towards the Assembly, which materializes the false hope of the Bulgarians for positive change, for more justice and empathy. One year is enough time to take account of the past period, and if we are honest, we can't help but think that this reckoning today does not seem at all happy for Bulgaria! Because of the voter's hope we were born more, no less a banal claim of the ruling majority for honesty, transparency, will for reforms and economic upsurge. Today, this claim, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, apart from banal, is disproved every day by the reality in which we live, and tomatoes before the National Assembly this morning are one of the proofs of this! What did the government promise us a year ago? He promised that those who voted for the ruling coalition parties would be honest with them. Today, the principles and grounds of this coalition continue to be unclear to anyone or almost anyone, because the participants in this majority are different during each session, different at the beginning, in the middle and at the end of the session. This fall will probably continue to be like this. This cannot raise the authority of the National Assembly. The promised reform of the pension system has actually been reduced to a simple increase in age of 67 years for men, 65 years for women. This clearly does not correspond to the situation with the life expectancy in Bulgaria, with access to healthcare in Bulgaria. From the promised health reform, thanks to God it has not yet ended, citizens have received a split of two people whose diseases are socially significant, and for which the state will make some efforts, and those who will pay their social contributions, and then will pay extra because their diseases are socially irrelevant. The discussion on health laws continues and we will consistently oppose this session of privatization ideas, as we did with regard to the postal and railways that were proposed for privatisation by the government. The promised reform of education is thanks to God that it has not finished yet, but here we will firmly defend our position from the previous session that the scarce resources for public education cannot be redirected to private schools as well. This will lead to increasing inequalities, to an increasing limitation of access to education, and from there to social exclusion, which is becoming a major problem for our society. In a year's time, the government ignored the demographic crisis and that is why, at the end of last session, we categorically raised the question of the necessary measures. We look forward to the commitment of Minister Kalfin to be fulfilled and this month to see the government's strategy for combating the demographic crisis and, at the end of November, together with the budget, to look at short-term and medium-term measures to combat the demographic crisis. Because this is the worst problem, which even in the short term poses huge threats to the normal functioning of the country and the normal future of Bulgaria. Honourable MPs, energy reform has been promised. It expressed itself in increasing electricity prices for the business more, for citizens less, but for everyone something. Apropo, there's been a lot of noise lately on the fuel issue. And very interesting: once again, the government transfers responsibilities for the necessary actions to some factors that are outside Bulgaria...................................that should lead to a fairer formation of profits from the cartels in the Bulgarian economy on the Bulgarian market. And if at the previous session BSP left Bulgaria achieved a result with regard to the excessive profits and pressure on the Bulgarian producers from the retail chains, then during this session we will be extremely persistent on this topic how in Bulgaria, through the dominant position of the market, over profits are achieved on the back of the poorest citizen of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, judicial reform has been promised, thank God and it has not ended, started on a major and ever-violent basis to its finale. Because it cannot be reform the replacement of the persons in the Supreme Judicial Council and this will lead to more justice in the criminal, in the civil process, to more speed of justice, to more feeling of the Bulgarian citizens that the Bulgarian court with guaranteed independence is suing for the benefit of the ordinary citizen and not the one who has more money. Dear MPs, generous of promises, the government has maintained unexplained silence on many important issues for Bulgaria, on which we from BSP left Bulgaria and at this session will continue to insist on the government's answers and the answers of the politicians from the majority: sanctions against Russia and the effects on the Bulgarian economy, Bulgaria's compensations, the Bulgarian citizens, the economic consequences of sanctions against Russia, the silence on ethnic tensions, the silence on the demographic crisis that I mentioned, the silence on those commitments that the President has taken on 2% of the gross domestic product to go for defence. We will definitely continue to defend another position that, in the poorest country of the European Union, there should not be an increase in military budgets before the problems of education and health are solved. All summer there was silence on the issue of refugees, although we insisted on an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Today, Bulgaria is suffering very severe reputational consequences of this silence of the government, the responsible ministers and leaders, and the Prime Minister, the consequences that not only this Assembly and not only this government will bear. Because if you open the European press, you will see that what happened in Austria and its connection with Bulgaria has a very serious moral impact on the authority of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union, and as a country a member claiming to become a full member of Schengen. Dear MPs, elections are coming at the end of next month. For us, the election is not a boxing match. We know that many political parties prefer sports comparisons, especially sports where there is more blood. This led Bulgarian citizens to have mistrust not only in the central but also in the local authorities, because in the elections there is less politics and more muscle and attraction. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, we believe that in local elections too, politics is important and we will continue, however difficult, to stand up for the political priorities of the left-wing standards in the local authorities. Finally, there must have been a lot of talk about what was said, what was done, what was not said, but was done, like the issue of the external debt of 16 billion. But in these elections citizens will be able to judge not only who to vote for in their municipality, but what policy in Bulgaria to vote for in order to have a future for their children. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, its President, the People's Representative Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The beginning of the autumn session of the Forty-third National Assembly coincides with the end of the first year of the administration of the cabinet Borisov 2. The most frequent, seemingly consensual assessment of this period is that management is stable. This is the most common mantra we have heard today. The question is, who understands stability? Even at the election of the cabinet, we expressed the thesis that stability is at last a matter of a quantitative parameter composed of a number of parties and the number of MPs who form the ruling parliamentary majority. And we are adamant that stability is, above all, a function of the idea compatibility and common priorities of the ruling parties. There aren't any. We would accept that governance is stable if, for example, it has a common tax policy, as a basis for a country's economic development strategy. However, if, in a month's time when we are discussing tax laws again outside, for example, the DPS has to save the flat tax because of the firm position of two of the ruling parties to move towards a progressive scale of taxation, this governance can hardly claim to be stable. Instead of getting along and setting common priorities, you choose to compensate for the lack of an idea solder with another source of management unit. Naturally, this is the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. For example, today we are opening the new political season, and yesterday in a TV studio, not to say a name so that we do not make unnecessary advertising, three prominent representatives of three of the ruling parties separated 23 of the 25-minute debates on the topic of DPS. Dear colleagues, this is not a management program. Your anti-DPS attitude is passion, hysteria, you will not deceive society. This isn't a management program yet! In addition, it is somewhat insulting for politicians and politicalists who teach Bulgarian students the values of European democracy, based on systematic democratic parties from the triad to the right center, to express those who put the right into conceptual compatibility and dependence on ultranationalists. It is precisely their entry into power that represents the first serious deviation from the fundamental values of European democracy, and this cannot not create a severe crisis of the political identity of the right, which predates the value and political crisis! And it explains why the emphasis in your speech today is stability, but not development. On this subject, I'll go further. We will save the examples of other internal coalition and active conflicts in the area of pension reform, security, social policy, the Ukrainian crisis and so on, because they would be another confirmation of the already stated the thesis that a formula of a ruling majority, which is not just a diverse one, is not a problem in itself, but with the mix of an anti-systemic, anti-European nationalist party cannot generate stability! Unhealthy populist compromise is anything but stability. But we will not save you back, we will focus on two topics that most vividly illustrate the thesis that this governing formula represents a really serious deviation from the Euro-Atlantic identity of Bulgaria. I am referring to the policy regarding the integration of minorities, in particular Roma ethnicity, and the global issue of the attitude towards ethno-religious differences in Bulgarian society. The policy of the government against the Roma is weak because it is strong. It needs, not power, but a strong policy of democratic, humane solutions. Yesterday we heard Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova say that the case Germen has shown that the state has the resources to deal with this issue. How, with what approaches with diggers, with enhanced gendarmerie presence? No. The Roma issue will not be solved with excavators and enhanced gendarmerie presence. That's why today we insist on being heard. The solution is a single educational integration to start from preschool age. You will receive our strong support if in Budget 2016 you bet on a national program for the construction of kindergartens in all Roma neighborhoods. This is not a quick solution, but it is only the possible long-term strategic solution of the Roma issue in Bulgaria, because social exclusion can be overcome only with an active policy of integration. Unintegrated society cannot be stable and cannot enjoy development. The second theme. Today, European policy is strongly challenged in its finest part... solidarity and humanism, by the refugee crisis. Bulgaria and Hungary are proud of their built wire networks to stop a refugee stream driven by a real tragedy. Dear ladies and gentlemen, against whom and against what are wire networks Bulgaria and Hungary facing? Can the European Union be closed with wire networks? A closed European Union means a dead European Union. The European Union of wired networks means the death of the European idea... the idea of humanism, freedom, solidarity and democracy. It is true that Bulgaria and the Western Balkans are facing a severe crisis, given the socio-economic situation in these countries, they cannot take on the refugee crisis themselves. It is therefore necessary for these countries to initiate an even more active development of a targeted European strategy for the solidarity of the burden of the refugee wave, not to close our borders. One is the policy of protecting the Schengen area, one is the policy of preventing dangerous radical elements through the refugee flow................. is to stop human tragedy........................................................................... Dear ladies and gentlemen, the DPS is organizing a very high liberal forum at 17 "19," which will be attended by the leaders of all liberal parties, and the main topic will be precisely that the refugee crisis has shown once again: the enlargement of the European Union to Southeast Europe, to Eastern Europe, in particular to the Western Balkans is unalternative. Southeast Europe, the Western Balkans are still part of the security of the European Union, we will insist on a new accession strategy for our neighbours to the European Union. And in conclusion, the word "stability" cannot replace the word "development." Stability is not an objective, ladies and gentlemen, stability is only the environment in which development policy should be developed, it cannot be achieved with this formula of power. In order to manage both stability and development, a new, clear, clean, ultranationalist, racketeering and thus retrograde impurities, a clear European and Euro-Atlantic profile of power is needed. As for the DPS, we will continue to develop as a modern liberal party responsible and creative when it is part of the power; responsible and constructive when it is part of the opposition. In the future, strategically correct solutions of the DPS can be relied on. For example, we will definitely fulfil the commitment, which has 36 signatures on the new constitutional project, but only this is not enough. Bulgaria needs development management and therefore needs a new formula of power and local elections will strongly confirm the correctness of this thesis. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. From the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc Radan Kanev, co-chair. You have the floor, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the first day of the forty-third parliament, not to say... since the day the election results became clear, it is clear that this National Assembly will either be a land of consent, or there will be a short, glorious life on the way to new early elections and deepening the severe political crisis of recent years. The negotiating skills, the search for compromises and agreement within this Parliament, made up of eight political forces, on the first day were a prerequisite for protecting the national security of the state. The achievement of both a policy of compromises and a policy of decency and sufficient levels of political morality in society was the most difficult challenge facing this Parliament, since the deep political crisis that called it through very rapid early elections has very serious moral dimensions, so we were faced with an unknown challenge to both impose new political ethics and achieve major compromises, given the composition of the National Assembly. The only way to overcome the crisis of confidence, which, as I said, unlike other political and economic crises, has clearly moral and ethical content, because it is about citizens' trust in the government. The past session of the Forty-third Parliament has proved that a policy of negotiations and compromises within the framework of the Forty-third Parliament is possible, proved that virtually all or almost all parties in this National Assembly understand that in a moment of deep, strong and unpredictable political crisis in our two southern neighbours, which has led to simultaneous early elections in them in practice, in time, a deep political crisis in our western neighbour Macedonia, and along with this two severe military conflicts and the greatest movement of human masses in Europe since the end of the Second World War, require all political powers within this Parliament to be able to speak and take the necessary decisions on stability, I agree that stability is not the same as development for the stability of the Bulgarian state, but precisely the current session, which begins today, must give an answer to the question about the price of the negotiations and compromises, the question: could the Bulgarian political class, if we use this terrible confidence, if we are to make use of the Bulgarian political compromises? To put it another way, if we are going to use the crisis around Bulgaria to say: we simply need to be stable, to sit firmly on the mider of power and with all kinds of negotiations, with all kinds of compromises to hold this power, using the crisis around the country as justification and indulgence for the retention of power. Or vice versa, like any wise politician, like any wise society, we will use the crisis as an opportunity not only to achieve stability, but to achieve development in order to move Bulgaria with bold steps from its position as the most backward member of the European Union to the situation of a country with an accelerated, forwarding development that is desperately necessary for it. The question: can a policy of consent and a policy of public morality exist simultaneously, does not stand? All successful societies have proven that they can. The most successful countries in the 21st century are all countries with proportionate electoral systems, fragmented parliaments, coalition governments, and yet they are surprisingly stable, are developing well and have the highest levels of transparency of governance and management morality, and these are countries both from the northwest periphery of old Europe and from the north-east periphery of new Europe, that is, postcommunism is no longer an excuse. Twenty-five years later, we cannot justify communism for our own corruption and irresponsibility. Others have shown that this combination is not mandatory. The question remains: can we Bulgarian politicians combine negotiating policy and compromises with a policy of morality? And the answer is: yes, we can, if we go back to our roots, if we go back to the basic Christian concept of morals of public responsibility, not to vain and selfish putting masks of personal infallibility, but to political courage, to understanding political morality as a responsibility in the first place to order and security, in second place to citizens' rights, in third place to the taxpayers' money that we spend every day with our vote in plenary. Political morality is the ability to courageous decisions that protect the public interest, even if they affect the electoral interest of an individual party, even if they cause scratches in the personal vain image of moral perfection. First of all, in order for the policy of consent and the policy of morality to exist at the same time, it is necessary for this agreement to be aimed at the eradication of the two public scourges of Bulgarian political life.. corruption and guerrilla in the administration, because while the political competition is a contest for pieces of the pie and for undeserved jobs, it will always be a wavering, Bulgarian politics will always be a battle in the wolf pack because it is about passions aimed at personal interest. Conversely, when the dispute is about political principles and ideas, then it is quite possible and the most fragmented parliament to give birth to political consents for the good of each individual citizen. In the forthcoming session of Parliament, we have enough concrete solutions to prove whether we can be at the height of what is required of us by the historic moment, not the abstraction of political morality, but the concreteness of political decisions that we, as well, must make. I recall that we withdrew the constitutional project and tabled a new one for the sake of speeding up the process of adopting constitutional changes. This means that we all have to keep our word, vote 180 votes at first reading, so that we can have an amended Constitution within the session, because it is only a unblocking of the process of judicial reform that is taking place during the Law on the Judiciary and the Rules of Procedure. We must give the opportunity to speed up this process. Through the budget we need to give a clear sign that we are responsible, thrifty owners of the money of Bulgarian citizens, because the continuing waste of which we are sad witnesses, especially in election periods, of common money in the name of conjunctural political success, is another huge ulcer of Bulgarian political life. Through anti-corruption legislation, which we are about to vote on at first reading this week, we need to prove that we are ready to suffer certain personal damage and inconveniences, and perhaps for some of us and certain real risks of revealing to the fullest extent our own property and our own contacts with business. Through the legislation in the health sphere to show that we have enough courage to first stop the thefts from the pockets of Bulgarian citizens, and secondly, with the available resources to provide maximum health care for each Bulgarian citizen. Last but not least, when choosing the Commission for Protection of Competition, which we are about to have, we need to turn over a 12-year trend for this body to work against the interests of Bulgarian citizens. This means, in the interests of the monopolies, both in terms of electricity and in terms of fuel and many more topics, and against the interests of business in the sphere of corruption cartels and public procurement. I didn't mention the local elections for a reason, so I'm done. They must not and cannot delay Parliament's work. The government program is four years old. There's gonna be a lot of choices in these four years. The closest sure elections are in just one year. If other elections can change the government programme, it is a sure way to fail the four-year term of this Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of the next parliamentary session, it is appropriate to analyse what has been done and identify the main tasks for our future work. The period of the work of the National Assembly, as well as the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, is characterized by certain, albeit modest achievements which, I dare say, give a good trend in our work. At the end of April, for the first time in the Bulgarian Parliament was adopted a Declaration condemning the genocide of the Armenian people committed at the beginning of the 20th century. Behind the Declaration all nationally responsible parties were united except the DPS. Their representatives not only did not support the Declaration, but demonstrably left the Chamber in a minute to pay tribute to the victims. This clearly shows the lack of perspective, the backwardness and the misunderstood service of the interests of our southern neighbouring Turkey by the most harmful political-mafia structure in the last 25 years. [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving the hall.]] Unfortunately, the delay in the implementation of some of the priorities set out in the stable management programme required, at the beginning of June, the Patriotic Front to put seven main priorities in place, namely: First, the removal of illegal buildings in the gypsy ghetto of the village of Marchevo, the municipality of Garmen, as a test of the priority for statehood over the violation of the laws tolerated by the local government of DPS. Secondly, emergency measures to control domestic crime. Thirdly, measures to solve the severe problems in the Bulgarian energy sector related to the large-scale abuse and not increase the price of electricity. Fourth, restoration of damaged sections of the protective facility along the border with the Republic of Turkey and further construction of new sections. Fifthly, completion of the necessary legal and regulatory changes to limit illegal logging and timber exports. Sixth, consideration and vote changes in legislation to counter the bought ethnic and manipulated vote. Seventh, solving the institutional problems related to the Bulgarian communities living abroad, as well as adopting the changes proposed by the Patriotic Front in the Law on Bulgarians living outside the territories of the Republic of Bulgaria. At each of these points, a relatively satisfactory implementation was found within the proposed one-month period, with the exception of issues for which a larger period of time was needed, namely dealing with domestic crime, completing the protection facility along the border with Turkey and completing energy reforms. By changing the electoral legislation, a partial success has been achieved, linked to an agreement to increase the penalties for buying and selling votes, which I hope will be realised by the leadership and representatives of GERB and the Reformist bloc. The removal of illegal buildings in the municipality of Garmen, for which all legal procedures have been completed, has been suspended by a letter of the European Court of Justice pending further requirements. I would like to assure you that the Patriotic Front will continue its consistent work on these and all unfinished tasks from the above list and during the current session of Parliament. The direct involvement of representatives of the Patriotic Front with the energy assessment ended with an interim report covering the work of US power plants Maritza East 1 and 3, as well as the RES sector. In the extended period of work of the Commission, the analysis of the other elements of the energy market will be completed and a final report and recommendations from the Commission will be proposed for adoption. A delay and retention of electricity prices for domestic consumers was also achieved, protecting one of the main programme priorities of the Patriotic Front. In the meantime, two amendments to the Energy Act were adopted, which unfortunately allowed the introduction of lobbying texts, which should be corrected most urgently. A decisive stage in the final solution of energy problems will be in our view the adoption of the Law on the termination of the long-term treaties with TPP Maritsa East 1 and 3, submitted by the Patriotic Front. The Bill is currently being discussed in the Council of Ministers and is about to be submitted to the National Assembly committees. Despite the organisational measures taken by the Ministry of Interior, solving domestic crime issues and especially in places with predominantly gypsy population, as well as small settlements in the province, is the difficult issue which will likely continue during the entire term of government. In the process of working on the above-mentioned requests on the Patriotic Front, good interaction was found with both parties supporting governance and the executive bodies, which is a serious achievement and a pledge for successful work. In solving the serious problems of national importance related to national security, an agreement was reached between all Bulgarian parties in the National Assembly, together with the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, at which a meeting was set the main tasks in the fight against crime. An unprecedented result with the crucial participation of the Patriotic Front was the collection of 180 signatures under a joint bill for amending the Constitution to solve the severe problems of the judiciary. Success has been achieved in the legislative work related to the Code of Social Security, Health Reform, Civil Registration and others, despite the existence of a large number of diverse political forces, the majority of these decisions have been reached in the National Assembly by a serious majority. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will continue its consistent work on the implementation of its election programme and in the upcoming political season to protect the interests of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian citizens in the spirit of well-meaning and seeking consensus. It is natural that the removal of DPS from all positions of power remains the most important task of the Patriotic Front, as we are clearly aware that the separation and opposition of the Bulgarian society to ethnic and belief is the greatest danger to statehood. A new and extremely serious challenge for Bulgaria is the huge refugee wave, flooding Europe and in particular our southern border. The fact that the Ministry of Interior has had serious success in limiting the migration wave is not a cause for comfort. We need to speed up the construction of the protective facility along our border with Turkey as the most serious measure against immigrants; a change of legislation is also needed in order to increase sanctions against trafficking in human beings; Bulgaria needs to make a strong request for the allocation of responsibility and burden of refugee flow among all countries in the European Union, including those located at the periphery of the community, Poland, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and others. In this regard, the United States of America must also assume its share as the main reason for much of the Middle East conflicts. Another task before the Patriotic Front and the National Assembly is to take measures to encourage and revive the Bulgarian economy and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises which are subjected to stifling administrative control and regulatory arbitrariness, as well as to continuous pressure from monopolies and corruption practices. In this regard, in the past nine months, we have practically done little, honourable Members, except for a partial change in the Labour Code relating to one-day employment. In the update of the budget, the Patriot Front will insist on increasing the funds for the Ministry of Interior for a more successful fight against migration flow and domestic crime; on the other hand, we will also insist on increasing the budget of the Ministry of Defence in the direction of restoring the battle readiness of the Bulgarian Army and its completion with more modern weapons. In our opinion, we also need additional funding from the Ministry of Culture in order to enrich the cultural and historical heritage and strengthen tourism interest and thus increase tourism revenues. The patriotic front will support reforms in the judiciary, in healthcare, education and the unloading of the social system from excessive social aid, leading to the creation of an alarmingly growing social layer of non-working, non-taxable consumers. It is up to all of us to maintain relative political stability in our homeland, regardless of serious political differences, because we will thus fulfil our duty as MPs. On the eve of the new political season, it is up to us that the severe political, economic and social turmoil of our neighbours Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, Romania and Turkey do not reach the sacred borders of Mother Bulgaria. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, Svetlin Tanchev co-chair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we are starting another political semester with dramatic, alarming and threatening foreign policy events, referring not only to the unwinding tensions and unrest in nearby Ukraine, but also to the military conflicts in the Middle East, causing huge refugee waves to our territory, which are immensely challenging our ability to defend our borders. At the same time, the major global economies are facing some of their most serious trials in years, taking into account the still unaltered Greek crisis, as well as what is happening on the Asian markets and the US. The only good news on a global scale would be that at least the main raw material is at record low levels for decades. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria this is not good news, because here fuels continue to maintain record high prices. What is even scarier is that the internal economic and political environment is not very different from what I have described so far in foreign policy. Many so-called "reforms" have been launched, but so far we do not see concrete changes and there is nothing completed. Even if the vision of some of these reforms is brought to an end, these are merely chaotic actions that can be likened to a tube in the dark. With the pension reform that has been launched, brought to nothing, the state is dangerously threatening our fragile stock exchange and the auction that is happening there. I hope we come to our senses and we don't let that happen. The initiated health reform, for which we also do not have a coherent vision, is a chaotic injection of hospitals, rapid aid without a clear and comprehensive strategy on how to really improve the healthcare service that we all pay for. Hopefully soon we'll see something concrete and clear, because people are literally dying. As far as the widely proclaimed judicial reform is concerned, so far we also have no signals and no vision of how to do it. There's no judicial reform. Instead of working on the priorities that would really solve the problems in this area quickly, such as a change in the Criminal Code, a morally outdated document, the Criminal Procedure Code and a number of other documents that would really solve the problems in the system, and quickly, we have not adopted any legal provision that is in the direction of the structure, organisation and financing of this system. We lost a year in something that took ten days to do it before vacation, and it wasn't even the real change we needed, nor was it what it took a year to make. Hopefully from now on, we'll see some determination and vision, some hope. In an intra-economic aspect, the picture is also catastrophic. Well, at least the weather's good, so people haven't paid attention yet. Here I will note the news that comes out about the failed summer season and the tide of tourists from our resorts, the problems facing hoteliers and restaurants, as well as the problems facing the home business, experiencing the challenges of the state, even in their daily work, instead of feeling the centre-right management, which should facilitate and not hinder. At the same time, the consequences of KTB's bankruptcy have not been completely overcome. There are a lot of ambiguities about how, who and where the victims will be able to get some compensation. There is still no talk of the long-awaited e-government and we have not seen decisive steps that the whole society and business are expected for a long time, both born and international. The challenges are also great in the field of ecology, where we have to catch up a lot in order to reach the commitments made to the European Union and avoid severe financial consequences for our nation in regional development, as well as in the absorption of European funds, which can also cost us dearly. It's a long list. To sum up: to accept that so far you have learned, although much of the government is not new, from now on we need a lot of work and a concrete, clear and consistent one. We appreciate that the responsibility is indeed enormous because the figures are clear, as well as the commitments. Civil society is really getting stronger and more vigilant and sensitive in this information age, and I do not think that anyone in this House, and not only in this House, wants to experience how far Bulgarian tolerance borders. As a group of the People's Union, we will continue to watch the processes, to give publicity and transparency in our work and to work constructively for the benefit of things that are real and good, and to be a firm and noisy opposition in all legal measures. I hope for fruitful, constructive and dialogue work both in Parliament and in the executive power. Hopefully we will be able to master and bring some of these huge challenges to a successful conclusion. Thank you and good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party "Attack" "The Chairman of the group Mr. Volen Siderov." You have the floor, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I understand it, besides Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio is on, right?! Since the BNR has had a Turkish language program for some time, I will also use a mother tongue address: Ladies and gentlemen of the House, this is another session that seems to have the intention of saying something new, but I do not see anything new. I see the same aspirations for consensus in the name of profit. During the whole summer vacation, there were arrangements for the local elections that followed. We still can't figure out which mayors represent. This means that what you call stability and consensus is actually an agreement which larger bone to bite into power. Not that it's anything new! We've seen this. But I can't wonder how 25 years after the event took place transition from socialism to socialism, industrially developed state to destruction and wild, savage capitalism, twenty-five years have passed since that moment, and you continue to talk about reforms?! What else are you going to reform? What more can you reform? And so far, what have you been doing? I ask, but I am not waiting for an answer, because in this House I cannot get an answer to this question. I can see that. There's no way we can look ahead if we don't go back. A year ago, there was a coup d'état here in downtown Sofia. He was organized with a lot of money paid by American foundations. A Bulgarian Maidan was organized. A legitimately elected parliament and a legally elected government were overthrown to accommodate a coalition of unclear origin, but therefore contained more than 30 parties. Here someone said just now that the parliament consisted of eight parties. No. You forget the important detail that Parliament is currently representing more than 40 parties - 48, not eight. "Attack" is the only parliamentary group that is a party, mono, monolith single party group. Everyone else is a coalition. In other words, 48 parties were granted access to the legislative power. Let's see what the score is in a year. The result is negative for Bulgaria. We went into a 16-billion-dollar loan, first. Secondly, between 60 and 100,000 young people have left their homeland again, going to seek livelihoods in other countries, i.e. working for foreign economies, not for the Bulgarian ones. Why? Well, because there's no pay here. Because when Atakas proposed that the incomes in Bulgaria be raised, we heard mockery calls and remarks here. In fact, young people flee because there they can get a better paid job, albeit humiliating for them. If they could get the same income in Bulgaria, they wouldn't be running. Then what reforms are you talking about, what perspective, what prosperity?! We're running out of young people. Bulgaria is leaving. Here a moment ago, someone came out with the shout: "Long live Bulgaria!" I don't know if in a year or two you can say this voice because it will not live. Our country is leaving. Bulgaria's huge problem is not the right and left, there are no fictional notions of political science that have long been out of coverage, just as the dollar has no coverage for a long time. 1971. The main problem of our country Bulgaria is sovereignty, lack of sovereignty. None of the speakers here said two words about that we are at the moment in war; that they made us a front line; that here every week heavy American equipment is being landed and that Bulgaria becomes part of a line of fire, which tomorrow can become the target of foreign weapons, because we are targeting foreign countries. To which countries? Well, to our liberator Russia, who freed us from Turkish slavery. To thank you, we are now doing maneuvers and teachings that show that our weapons are aimed there. They're not ours. They're American. We're just a vassal. We are the territory Americans have been using for over 20 years for their experiments. If we do not resolve the issue, the main issue of Bulgaria with sovereignty, we do not solve anything. Neither judicial reform nor amendments to the Constitution can compensate for the lack of sovereignty. And lack of sovereignty leads to a lack of own economy, a lack of opportunities for livelihood, huge unemployment, emigration of Bulgarian young people and total misery for the elderly. This is the state today in the country. I did not hear one such analysis to make one of the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Unfortunately! I have not heard a critical analysis of the fact that we are already 11 years old members of the NATO Atlantic Military Block, which had to be dissolved according to the agreement between the US and the Russian President back in 1991 along with the Warsaw Treaty, but, of course, the Americans, as always, lied to the world. They're masters of this art. I don't see any critical analysis. Shouldn't we be subject to a critical analysis of our membership in the EU for eight years now? What is the result for Bulgaria? We continue to be the poorest country in all of Europe. So it's time for a critical and objective analysis. Why do Bulgarian politicalists, economists, scientists, as there are many and who very often speak on TV, not take this step? It is time to do a critical analysis of our presence in NATO and the European Union. What did you bring and what did you take from us? I'm sure, I'm sure, I've done this analysis, but I want everyone from the political elite to be convinced of the facts. I'm sure if you do an objective analysis, we'll see that the negatives are more than the pros. Then isn't it time to ask ourselves where geopolitical Bulgaria is located? Isn't it time to ask ourselves whether Bulgaria should cooperate economically with countries that are developing intensively and offer much more opportunities than the narrow Brussels direction? From it we receive nothing but directives, reprimand reports and remarks and a request for more tightening of belts. Isn't it time for Bulgaria to reconsider its position in the world? Shouldn't he cooperate with developed economies such as Russia, China, India, Japan, which, by the way, have the desire to invest in Bulgaria, but from the Bulgarian country receive a response. Isn't it time for Bulgaria to reconsider whether it should come out of NATO and declare neutrality, because its presence in NATO at the moment brings her only danger of getting involved in war? We see a very disturbing blabbering of weapons on our territory. We see absolutely no compliance with the Bulgarian dignity presence of the American military machine. We see involvement in an experiment with which the Anglo-Saxon world, the Atlantic world, is fighting Orthodoxy. We Bulgarians are part of the Orthodox world. We are creators of this world. We cannot separate artificially, we cannot stand in another position, we cannot regard as normal and acceptable war against what saves us as people, as a nation, as a nation. It has saved us over the centuries, saved us and will save us in the future. We cannot pretend to be others, and it is high time that we realized exactly what we are - English, Scandinavians, Americans or Bulgarians, creators of the oldest civilization in Europe. It is time to ask ourselves this question while we can still think, while our society still has some conceptions of thinking, as it is constantly exposed to idiotic advertising, show programs and other lumpening media events that turn it into a non-thinking mass, an automised non-thinking mass. This is a dangerous process and this process leads to the nation's disintegration, the disintegration of the people, the disintegration of who we are all are, which is our root, our life, our future. If we want Bulgaria to exist and in the future to be able to go out here, on this stage with the shout "Long live Bulgaria!" we should not only think about these issues but also take action. What are the actions? Actions are exiting the colonial regime in which Bulgaria is now located. Coming out of this dependence in which everything that works and wins Bulgaria is in the other hands. Many times I have repeated from this tribune, many times I have called on the executive authority of the Prime Minister after the Prime Minister why not end these harmful concessions for Bulgaria, these pillaging contracts with which our energy, our natural riches are extracted and robbed and we get nothing. If we don't end this colonial addiction, we're not doing anything. It is time to rethink the road of Bulgaria. And only then can we say the proclamation "Long live Bulgaria!" because otherwise in just years we will pronounce ourselves on a national political corpse. Bulgaria simply will not exist. It all started with the program in the Turkish language of BNR, then will pass to BNT, then parts of Bulgaria will be cut off, then the rest of the territory will be declared anything but this proud mother Bulgaria, to which those who are called patriots refer. If you are patriots, work for the exit of Bulgaria from colonial slavery! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. From the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for the Bulgarian Revival there is the Chairman of the group Borislav Borisov. Here you go, Professor. Borisov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Starting the work in the new session, I will allow myself to share with my fellow Members what we think has mainly prevented us from working through the past parliamentary group so that our work can be more fruitful and more effective. It is about the style of work in our parliamentary activities and today I will share with you the vision of the ABB Parliamentary Group on this issue. In order to understand our thesis more clearly, I will illustrate it with a concrete example from our parliamentary practice and this is the decision to transfer the accounts from private pension funds to the solidarity fund of the NSI. I refer to this example not to open up old wounds, nor to seek out guilty persons and make personal criticisms. I stop at it because, first of all, this example is a concentrated expression of incorrect approaches and methods that in their collection form a style of work with a strong negative charge. Secondly, because this example is a gathering indication of how it should not work in parliament. Thirdly, this example, although first in time, has set a precedent and is no longer alone. I would even say that it is rather becoming an unpleasant trend in our legislative practice. The first thing I'm going to start with, based on this example, is a fact that definitely impresses me to a high degree because it's about the way decisions are made in Parliament. The logical consistency of making a decision as a rule requires that first the process of thinking, including the consideration of the appropriateness and consequences of it and only then proceed to the decision. Unfortunately, I have had the opportunity to repeatedly make sure that this logical sequence in our legislative activity is reversed in the opposite direction. First the decision is made, and then the process of thinking about the consequences of it begins and, as a consequence, the process of its revision, correction, complementation and so on begins. That is true, speaks not only the example mentioned, but also the dozens of additions and amendments to almost every law, and even to those adopted very recently. Or as a little rough, but quite right, the people said it.... that in this case the horse is harnessed behind the wagon. As an incorrect style of work in the example mentioned at the beginning is a characteristic and a second point and this is the use of a completely wrong approach to a solution to a system and to a single element of this system. If you'll excuse me for a moment for the tantalising part of my next speech. In front of us, colleagues, there are very serious and difficult tasks related to the implementation of reforms in extremely complex systems, the service system, the judiciary, the health system and so on. We are talking about reforms in complex systems and complex subsystems, complex components of systems, with complex intrasystem and interconnections. I am uncomfortable right in front of this authoritative audience to remind, but clearly it is necessary that when solving the problems of such complex systems the only proven and correct path is the use of the system approach, not the single solution of private cases and of individual elements of the system, but of the system as a whole, together with its intrasystem links. What, however, was the decision on pension funds, which I am setting as an example only, if not for a private case, for an element of the system, and not for the most important one, and to whom was this decision needed then and immediately provided that reform of the pension system was to be made as a whole, and this issue would be naturally resolved as an integral part of the overall reform? This is the wrong approach, colleagues, but unfortunately it is also part of the wrong style of work that I have already mentioned. When the private case of one element of the system is first solved, the reform policy of the system as a whole is now dependent on this decision of the private case, because this private case has already created another type of intrasystemic interaction with which the parameters of the reform of the system as a whole are determined to a large extent. Of course, except as an incorrect style of work, this can also be done in a very thoughtful way for knowingly determining or limiting the parameters sought for the reform of a system. This is now a matter of a particular political style of work, which I personally do not approve of either. Thirdly, it definitely disturbs me and I do not accept the often imposed speedy method for adopting certain legislative decisions. This is not about a well-meaning, organised and carried out naturally fast and effective procedure. We are talking about imposing inexplicably why by some parliamentary forces urgent deadlines for adoption, often with certain aggressive pressure to impose these deadlines, pressing others literally to the wall for a positive decision without complying with the elementary rules of parliamentary practice of prior discussion, coordination or hearing the opinion of the other. This is not a good parliamentary practice and it does not fit into the democratic style of work. In fourth place, I would point out, not in terms of importance, but as an enumeration, as a bad style of work in Parliament, the way in which the debates on the adoption of legislative decisions are held. As a rule, the professional debate on the legislative proposal is very quickly shifted from interpersonal or interparty attacks, and the professional discussion becomes a political dispute supported by modern but also by mothball facts dating sometimes from the AndreiIak period of governance. Lost for all time in a meaningless argument! An argument prompted by an imprudent, rude or insulting statement by a member of parliament. Someone, but he's not the only one. And if we are talking in general about the parliamentary language used in this House, I would, with few exceptions, define it as an ill-mannered language, a low-cultural language, a language plentiful with purposefully offensive and provocative expressions, often accompanied by unpleasant street phraseology. This is not a constructive language, it is a language of strife, of confrontation and of scandal, but it is not a language of discussion and seeking consent for the best solution or, as they say, in polzurodu. The damage that this way brings to parliamentary speaking and opposition, honourable Members, is not limited to the parliamentary chamber alone. The scarier defeats are beyond it, and they are in the souls and minds of the people, in the erosion of their faith in the wisdom and ability of the people's chosen to solve the problems of the state and their lives. Moreover, this unsightly and unpleasant political confrontation between the parliamentary forces is being carried over imperceptibly, but very successfully as a model of behaviour in society, as a permanent confrontation in it of everyone against everyone and everyone against everything. This is now the erosion of faith itself in statehood at all. The ABB Parliamentary Group believes that in the new parliamentary season it is necessary to return to the only beneficial and successfully proven style of dialogue between the political forces. This style of dialogue was placed by the mandate carrier as soon as the government was formed and its further use proved its effectiveness in sufficiently serious parliamentary situations. The pointless nude denial and political opposition and wasteland are a road to nowhere! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. It was precisely the political and professional dialogue that Ivaylo Kalfin implemented (the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Vice-President of the ABB) was the basis for a successful adoption of the basic package of laws providing for the reform of the pension system. ABB's parliamentary group is convinced that this is the right path for the successful implementation of the upcoming complex, difficult constitutional changes, reforms in the judiciary and healthcare, national security, the adoption of the state budget, and other legislative changes. The ABB will work in a constructive spirit and dialogue with the parliamentary represented political forces and will contribute to any reasonable and beneficial decision for the state and people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u19	Thank you, dear Professor. Borisov. In doing so, the statements by the parliamentary groups, which point to their priorities for the new political season, have ended. Please turn off the microphones and cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. We're moving on to our agenda. According to her, it follows: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. Importers are Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. It was adopted on 21 November 2014 and was adopted in the first vote on 5 February 2015. The Commission report will introduce you to Mrs. Milena Damyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Report on the second vote of the Pre-school and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014, adopted at the first vote on 5 February 2015. "Pre-school and school education's work. By the name of the Law there are several proposals from Members of the National Assembly that I will introduce to you. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In the title of the Law are made the following additions: after the word "Education" the words "Education" are added. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal, and it is in the title of the law after the word. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal is the name of the Law to be changed in the Law on Bulgarian Education. Proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal is: The title of the Law is amended as follows: the People's Education Act. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, and it is: the title of the Law is amended as follows: the People's Education Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u21	Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At our attention is a Bill that contains over 400 texts and more than 400 pages. This is a Bill with the claim for a comprehensive framework of Bulgarian school education. Despite the fact that there are provisions in it that are universal or for other reasons can be adopted, it does not answer the main current issues concerning Bulgarian education today. They are: the growing social inequality among children, the increasing number of dropouts from school children and young people, insufficiently combining education with the educational and social role of the school, insufficient care for disadvantaged children, the growing commercialization of education from its very beginning, the reduced social status of the teacher. Since this big bill does not help solve these issues, we still have to ask ourselves what will follow after the vote on the numerous texts? We from BSP left Bulgaria have tried to give as far as we can an answer to these questions through our proposals. Now I also justify the proposal for a change in the title, namely the Law on People's Education. It's an expression of continuity. Several laws on folk enlightenment have been adopted for more than centuries in Bulgaria. This is not just archaism, but the desire of the Bulgarian people to gain enlightenment through the acquisition of knowledge about the world, the knowledge of the skills that can be used for what the continuity in the Bulgarian education system contains and together its compliance with the current most up-to-date needs. We will also support all other proposals that have been made by the Members of the National Assembly for changes to the title, because they are trying to give an answer to what is the subject of the law. However, I would also like to make an editorial proposal, because, judging from the lively discussions in the Committee on Education and Science, none of these proposals raised a large enough majority to change the text of the importer. I think the most successful title to unite these proposals without getting into too much detail is the Preschool and School Education Act. We realize that enlightenment doesn't run out of school. It includes other institutions such as Chitalishtes, but we want to preserve Bulgarian characterology and thus show that it is the framework which is offered both before the school and the longest period of the educational period affecting the entry of children and then their development in the system of the Bulgarian school as a main part of the Bulgarian education. This proposal had the chance to be adopted in the Commission if it had not been for the disparity of the representative of the ABB - the party bearing this pronounced name, expressing communion to the Bulgarian revival, to the Bulgarian tradition, including in education. Those are facts. I therefore appeal to the representatives of all the parliamentary groups, including the majority, this Bill will further cause many discussions on some or other solutions, but let us be at the same time precise in determining its subject matter and together with expressing the supposition of this tradition, which Bulgaria has something to be proud of, which, even today, with the many problems still shows, albeit sporadic, high election results and what I think may be an expression of the desire for this law to achieve greater results. I also believe that the Minister of Education has reason to support this proposal and therefore I call on all Members of Parliament before voting on the proposal of the importer and after voting on the proposals of the individual Members of the National Assembly to support the title of the pre-school and school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u23	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Replices, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Velikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have very serious work to do on this bill. Indeed, I must say that in our Commission, we have dealt with a sense of great responsibility. We have tried to take into account all rational proposals, regardless of which MPs have been expressed. In this sense, I would also call for us to have a creative approach here, to try to respect what has already been achieved in the Commission as an agreement, and in cases where this may not have been the case, following the protection of the MPs, who can naturally defend their proposals, nevertheless accept what we have prepared in the Commission as texts. In this sense, although some of the proposals, including Yanaki Stoilov and the other colleagues have some reason, I propose that we also stick to the Pre-school and School Education Bill as a title that expresses, including those that were highlighted by colleague Stoilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u25	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. Second line..... prof................................................................................. Borislav Borisov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u26	Thank you. Somehow the blame was passed on to ABB that the name was not a enlightened name, but an education. It's not only that I don't take it as guilt, it's a very good position. Should we, honourable Members, explain that words have their essence and meaning and carry certain information? Every word when pronounced, if the other does not know the content of this information, misunderstands the meaning and meaning of the word. One is the enlightened one, another is the educational one, third is the training one. That's the mistake we've already made. It is enough to open the current Law on Higher Education, where in one text is the training, in another the education and in a third the learning process, for example. If you think about it, I think we're talking about training in the barracks. And when we talk about military education, we mean military universities, not the barracks. Obviously, there is a difference between teaching and education. If we look historically, it is first the age of Enlightenment, and then the creation of the education system begins. Enlightening someone involves, including recognizing the $2 note. And 10 leva. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But to educate him is to create a system of knowledge, skills, and some experience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u27	Your time is up, Professor. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u28	I apologize. This is an education now, and that is how I understand the meaning of this Law. Therefore, the word "education" is the intended word of the content of this Law. Otherwise, I like it. It's beautiful as a word, but it doesn't belong in the name of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u29	Thank you. Would you like a third line? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, really enlightenment is far beyond education and this Law, although very important and serious, although precisely crafted, cannot satisfy these claims. That is why I am addressing my fellow Members on the left and on the right today if we are really so concerned about enlightenment, we are thinking about culture and we are talking about the ever-growing crisis and the crisis in spiritual values, let us all, together in the tone of consensus, consent and trust that we are so concerned about, make such a law on enlightenment, but also in it, to address the problems of the Chitalishtes, the libraries, the theatres. I think this will be an occasion to reach a full consensus and let us not, today, selflessly, pick on the words, but talk about the quality of the content and pursue this quality, so that we move constructively forward. And if we have other ambitions, let them be in another project that we can offer and unite our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u31	Mr. Stoilov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Veliv's line was more procedural. It did not object to the content of the proposal, but to the fact that the Commission has assembled a majority to support the importer's proposal. Mr. Borisov and Mrs. Todorova opposed meaningful arguments to my thesis why the term "enlightenment" in this case, according to them, is not suitable enough. Yes, indeed the words have historical development, but I think it would be too narrow the approach if we understood enlightenment as a remnant of the time of the Enlightenment. Furthermore, the more general term used in Europe and in us is the age of the Renaissance, but enlightenment is not simply about obtaining initial, elementary knowledge. Even if we look at the time of the development of the Bulgarian education during the decades, it will turn out that until recently, although we talked, only in your opinion, about the education, there were a small number of illiterates in Bulgaria. Now, the more we have started to claim that we are educated and more people get diplomas, including higher education, at the same time there is an increase in illiterateness. Not to mention the so-called functional illiterateness for people who perceive some information but do not understand its meaning, and even less they can use it practically, that is, to gain some experience and be useful to them. That's the question. It's not that big of a problem with words. But there is one concern about all the things that must bear a national character. And the national character has two meanings. One is that it expresses the specific Bulgarian spirit and tradition, and the second importance of the people in this case is that there should be maximum access for more people on equal terms for what they expect to receive from the Bulgarian education or educational system. We have no grounds for such concerns if we want to meet tradition and expectations. So these arguments, in my opinion, are sufficient. This is not a matter of unnecessary pretentiousness, but really a desire for this Bulgarian verbality to be present in the present and in the future. Probably in the English or in another translation of the Law, he will again use the universal term. So don't worry about being more Bulgarians and getting closer to the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Mr. Borisov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u34	I fully respect those of my colleague Yanaki Stoilov. I like them both as a Bulgarian and as a man of science. But let's put things in their place. Education is one of the systems implementing or providing enlightenment, but it does not run out. Even look at what we're talking about when we graduate from secondary school, a mid-educational minimum of knowledge. Not a midlight minimum! This mid-educational minimum is one of the elements of the enlightened person, and to it are added many other elements given by other systems. Therefore, we should not oppose each other's words emotionally, in Bulgarian terms, in human terms. We oppose them in a meaningful way to what we consider in the Law. We look at the educational system and the exact term is the education. Otherwise, I am entirely in favour of making a wider law on enlightenment, and that is where the Chitalishtes will enter. I agree with my colleague Yanaki Stoilov and the status, about the social status of the teachers - ridiculous and insulting, but his place is here, in this Law, not just in the education. Here is the place of social status of teachers. So without opposing the two concepts, especially the beautiful word, the exact name of the Law, the term is an education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u35	Thank you, Professor. Borisov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Mariana Boyadjieva has the floor to say. I realize that in the Commission, you have used a lot of time to debate on this subject. You have the floor, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without a doubt, our responsibility as MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly is enormous when discussing this Bill, which was considered within a few months in the Committee on Education and Science. Many opinions were heard from the people working in the Bulgarian schools, the parents and the Bulgarian public, who are interested in this Bill. I think that when we examine and vote on its texts, we should bear in mind not only the traditions in Bulgarian education, but, of course, also the need for modernization in Bulgarian education, the need to reflect the changes and the spirit of our time. In this sense, however, when we talk about novelties, let's take another look at the traditions in the Bulgarian education. Here I would like to add a few more arguments to the proposal made by the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria regarding the name of the bill, but also not only because a proposal for the preservation of the name "Project" is also included in the proposal of MPs from other parliamentary groups. In our view, a guiding principle in the name of the Bill, which implies real reforms, should be the principle of continuity and, more importantly, the principle of equal access to quality education for all children in Bulgaria. In the context of global changes in information technology and the emergence of numerous global educational models, it is important to preserve the tradition and system of the Bulgarian people's education. I will add a few more words to the discussion because the concept of folk education is Bulgarian, made in the tradition of the Bulgarian school and our national construction and corresponds to the tradition of European Enlightenment. It does not contradict modern trends and realities. Moreover: It is the Enlightenment that is at the heart of modern secular education both in Europe and in Bulgaria. The enlightened work includes the spirituality of Bulgarian society and nation. Our celebration 24 May, which is unique in its nature, is a celebration of the Bulgarian education. There is no reason to replace the concept and current term of the Law, to replace national tradition and to get to the technological features of the educational system, which we can take out in the title. The term "People's Education Act" reflects, in our view, the wider functions of the education system, including the extremely important functions of education. The title of the Preschool and School Education Act narrows the perimeter, philosophy and understanding of the education system in Bulgaria as a system that only builds certain knowledge rather than a system that has civil, national and public responsibilities and functions. If we open any dictionary in the Bulgarian language, especially where we can see synonyms of the word................................................................................................. If we go back in history, the role of the Bulgarian education was not only to educate, but also to educate in a national spirit even in the years of foreign rule. In this sense, I appeal to you, Members of the National Assembly, let us once again judge and reflect on the proposal that we have made to preserve our authentic Bulgarian word as a word that must stand in the name of the new Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I can't see. The next fellow Member who expressed his wish to speak is the national representative Krasimir Bogdanov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. You have the floor, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I guess everyone in this room realizes how hard a procedure is ahead of us. I therefore took the liberty of taking the material that we need to discuss, hopefully in the short term, and calling for greater constructiveness, as the Committee on Education and Science has worked, and a very large part of the texts that have been set up in advance have been cleared. Of course, we need to pay our respects to all who have made great efforts in recent years to develop this Law and find ultimately consensus not only in the political forces, but also in the Bulgarian society, especially in the professional guilds, who are engaged in preschool and school education. Undoubtedly, it was a difficult road to go through these years, but the hope that a long and long discussion will give us a chance to adopt the best and best education law gives us confidence that our work as lawmakers in the state will be only and truly for the benefit of society. The patriotic front, looking at the original version that was submitted to the Commission and then at first reading in plenary, naturally made a number of its amendments with texts which we, as a political formation, received from numerous contacts with representatives of preschool and school education, specialists and experts, such as information from them, disagree with some of the texts. Therefore, many of the problematic topics that we discussed in the Commission also affected the conditions for decentralisation of Bulgarian education, the state funding of private schools, all topics that raise serious tensions in the Bulgarian society; delegated budgets or rather the way they form is also one of these topics, and the principle money follows the student - all these issues are extremely discussional. We defended our positions in the Commission at the first reading of the Preschool and School Education Act. What we have proposed and consider to be extremely important for the adoption of a quality law is the increase in remuneration of at least 20% of teachers above the average wage of the country; reaching 5% of the gross domestic product of the funds for education by 2018; introducing the competition start and the attestation of the managers in the education system; introducing a number of educational subjects that are missing, such as "Rodoloving," "Military training" and "Military education" and "Military protection of the population and environment"; preserving the resource centers and support schools. There we found an option in which we will combine modern European trends and traditional Bulgarian values in the system of education and, above all, optimal compliance with the rights and access opportunities of every child with special educational needs to the relevant institutions. Bulgarian schools abroad are a topic that is often underestimated and ignored in the laws that have affected the education in Bulgaria. So we insisted that they find their place in the Preschool and School Education Act. It is also very important in the new law, which will be passed by the Forty- Third National Assembly, not to allow the introduction into the system of Bulgarian education of foreign and non-traditional values for Bulgaria, the introduction of racial discrimination, various ideologies that are dangerous, which are denied by all the world institutions. Undoubtedly, the title of a law gives to a large extent its direction and affects its content, or rather points to its content. Here, two conflicting ones faced with regard to the title. Of course, the Patriot Front, such as a Bulgarian patriotic organization, made its proposal, taking into account also the opinion of the right, that in relation to the Law on People's Education, some connections can be sought, or rather some plasters in the past, ideological and other such. We propose the following version of the title of the current law...................................................................................................... I believe that in this way we fully respond to the meaning and content of the proposed texts, we bet on the Bulgarian language as leading in the education system and as the official language in the Republic of Bulgaria and show that this Law really affects Bulgarian education, Bulgarian education. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u39	And thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. First line, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. And you on the subject of education and education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Bogdanov! I take a line, but the statement of my colleague Bogdanov was rather programmed with regard to the Bill and a little by the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u41	All the way to the end was by the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u42	And at first there was a posting of the thesis, which is on the Patriotic Front. I'm taking a line to invite you to reconsider your proposal and take a look at it objectively. Not to wonder how to appreciate this concept, but to focus, to clear, if we can, our idea of this concept, both of romance and of history. Let's watch legal. The legislation requires that we use the words in their exact statement. The exact expression in this case is education. Because if we use a broader concept, we create the slightest serious systematic contradiction. What about the other legislation in this area? What about the Higher Education Act? What about the Academic Staff Act, what about the Chitalishtes Act? All this embraces and enters into the concept of enlightenment and enlightenment. If we use such a broad concept, which is a really nice Bulgarian word, it really does have a very serious meaning, historical, Revival, enlightening, but it should be on this 460-page bill for second reading at the moment to put at least another 500 into it and to make a code by codifying everything that is in the field of education. That's why I'm asking you to assess your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u44	Dear Mr. Kirilov, I accept your criticism that I really did little to resolve the issue which has been debated here, but I do, and in keeping with the statement of the other Members that it is necessary, when one law begins to be seen at second reading, to have some introductory words that also affect the political position of the relevant parliamentary group in plenary. Otherwise, I support our proposal. I really think it fits tradition. Rather, we should look in the direction of Bulgarian traditions and values for the name of such an important Law as the one concerning Bulgarian education and Bulgarian education, and not so much to bet on loans from other countries. And in the past, the ministry, which was involved in this activity, was called the Ministry of Enlightenment, long before the years after 9 September 1944. During the time from the Liberation until this period this Ministry had this particular name and was involved in education in Bulgaria. So I think that terminology is not as important as you mentioned, but this may also be the most traditional law, which has the greatest reflection and reaches every Bulgarian citizen, as each of us passes through this system. So, taking into account some of your suggestions, I support what I have done as a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u45	Thank you. The next speech is by Mr. Veselinov, I hope it will be on the title. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Indeed, it will be on the title as one of the importers of a proposal to change this title. I make the clarification that I and a group of colleagues from the Patriotic Front proved to be the formal importers of proposals which the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church made in its desire to participate in the public discussion on this Law. This is precisely the proposal of the Holy Synod, and it is in the same direction as the debate on the use of the words "enlightenment" or "education" is taking place. Perhaps it is a compromise option for both of these, because obviously education should not be considered only as education, such as obtaining a naked skeleton of knowledge, but also as something that forms the characters, creates values and ultimately shapes the citizens of our country Bulgaria as they are. In this spirit, the educational process is undoubtedly part of what the school gives the children. I think the word "education" should be part of the name of the Law. That is why we have proposed that the proposal of colleagues be supplemented so that it will become the pre-school and school education and education. There are many who can develop in this direction. They were largely developed by colleagues who maintain the word "enlightenment" as a wider one, including precisely the property beginning. I think it's a good option for them to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u47	Are you making an editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u48	No, it is a proposal which has been tabled and which will be subject to a general vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u49	Yeah, that's the first thing that's been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u50	That's right. In this spirit, I appeal to support this proposal, as in an era where values are too relativistic when families, unfortunately, have less time for their children, I think, hopes for the educational system are growing and we should codify even in the name of the Law precisely this obligation to raise children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? As the time is up, I will now end the debate, because at 12:00 should begin the so-called "Blitz" department, which will be attended by the Prime Minister and the three Deputy Prime Ministers. I'm calling off the debate here. One message: Today at 11.30 in the Club of the National Representative will be opened the documentary exhibition of the Bulgarian Unification 130 years, prepared by the Regional History Museum Plovdiv. All MPs are invited to the opening. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 12:00 the meeting continued with blitzcontrol. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u52	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL under art. 104 of our Rules. Let's say welcome to the Prime Minister, the two deputy prime ministers who are here, and we can proceed to the procedure. Does the GERB Parliamentary Group have any questions? Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u53	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mr. Tomislav Donchev. I am already going out with a smile because my colleagues, when they see me, know that there will be questions related to EU funds. First of all, to commend the government for the extremely high absorption of the funds, I think it is a really great achievement, but my question is not just about the praises of the government's work. My question is related to yesterday's Memorandum of Understanding, Partnership and Support in Using the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. As people who are interested in the absorption of EU funds know, this is the second Memorandum. The first was signed in January 2012 and for those who are not interested to say that Bulgaria was a pilot country that signed such a Memorandum with the World Bank. There were then six contracts for analysis and consultation in various fields: innovation, healthcare and others, so I think that for all of us, we know that EU funds are something extremely important for the development of our country, for our economy, it will be interesting to hear a little more details from Mr. Donchev about the parameters of the concluded agreement and what is envisaged in it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in for a little more details.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hubenova, as you rightly pointed out, yesterday's Memorandum is a natural continuation of the first agreement of 2012, when Bulgaria was open to use strategic expertise from the so-called international financial institutions. I would like to clarify that this is not about consulting services at the level of the project, it is not about outsourcing or transferring commitments of the country to manage the projects of an external institution. Indeed, this is about consultancy aid, but not at the technical level, but at the strategic level. And our vision in continuing the Agreement with the World Bank is to use the bank's expertise, which it undoubtedly has, with regard to reforms in key sectors. Why is the World Bank a good partner? Because, in addition to the purely technical expertise it has, it can combine it successfully with the experience gained in other countries. Reforms, although the term is slightly worn out by excessive use in recent months, are extremely directly linked to the possibility of using European money due to the so-called pre-conditions, which are regulated in the new, general Regulation 1303 and this is the following: there is a list of prescribed reforms covering practically all sectors that are financed by European money. That list shall be valid for each Member State. There is a mechanism for ongoing monitoring and control, and if the country concerned is not progressing adequately enough with the list of reforms, since the beginning of 2017, it may also lose the opportunity to use European money in the sector concerned and that is why the World Bank's help is extremely important. I can only mark part of the sectors in which the Bank is committed, although this issue is to be cleared in the next one year. The approach is relatively decentralized negotiations with a separate ministry, with a separate office, of course, in the case of central coordination. The fact is that for several weeks the Bank has already been mobilised to support liberalisation of the energy market. They performed a similar service in Romania a year ago and, as far as we are informed, the model that is built, the financial model is well done. They're going to help us in that direction. We will continue with the small, medium-sized enterprises and innovations sector. We have already gained experience in the sector................................................................................... There are certainly two critical reforms in the sector that need to be carried out. One is related to hydromelioration and the other is related to coma, where the issue is not of a technical nature, but is related to strategic solutions and the opportunity to enjoy the best foreign experience. In conclusion, the World Bank is undoubtedly a good partner of ours, but we work with all international financial institutions and with the European Investment Bank and with all other institutions, taking into account the need to support specific sectoral expertise. Not all international financial institutions have the same expertise in each field. We consider what we give them to do with their experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u56	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Hubenova will not take advantage of her right to a line. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria for a question You have the floor, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva. I believe, Deputy Prime Minister, that you will agree with me that today among the most serious challenges for the country and for the state institutions are refugees and the refugee wave. When I say today, I do not mean today as a day, but as a period of time. And this will be a problem that will obviously not end or be resolved within this, next or later year. You will agree that this is also one of the most serious challenges not only for the countries that have been shaken by the refugee wave in the last week, but also for Europe as a whole. This problem focuses on the most serious security risks at least in the way they are defined in both the Bulgarian and European security documents: organised networks and channels for human trafficking, actions of organised crime, illegal crossings, opportunities for crossing and infiltrating in the respective countries of persons related to jihadists or radical groups. At the same time, we are not just witnessing the most massive migration wave since the end of World War II, we are witnessing a human drama to which we must treat with empathy and with the necessary humane attitude; we are witnessing the victims of hundreds of people dying on the thorny path to the promised land if we recognize Europe under the promised land. The main questions, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, which sound today are: firstly, what does not work in the European migration system? Secondly, what should be the national measures? Of course, I ask this question, and it is not present as a matter of national effort, obviously, that there must be some coordination, there must be some single strategy. Here comes the third question: what should be the European answer? What should be the European solution? Some say it's a solution with historical dimensions. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, throughout this round of questions my question is: what is the Bulgarian position? Then I will explain why it is necessary to have a Bulgarian position that is constantly in development and to update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u59	Mr. Naydenov, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to wish everyone good luck in this session of parliament, light and successful work! Starting with today's blitz parliamentary control, let me tell you that you have the opportunity to see how, together with Mrs Bachvarova, we coordinate and present from a different point of view the same policy, something that she is doing wonderfully at national level, which we are also developing at European level. Indeed, every Bulgarian position, including with regard to refugees, passes through the Council on European Affairs, is confirmed by the Council of Ministers, but it is always proposed by the portfolio ministry. I believe that we owe respect and appreciation to what is currently being done by the Refugee Agency, which is with Mrs. Bachvarova and the Ministry of Interior. Of course, I would add the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because the integration of refugees goes through the efforts of another Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin. You actually said a few things that are key. One is the big picture in European politics, the second "How Bulgaria builds its policy and what are its accents? A question that is not related to refugees, but which you have affected is human trafficking and sewerage. Trafficking in human beings and sewers, let's be absolutely clear from this tribune, is a different type of problem, and they don't come in, they may intersect somewhere, but they're not related to what's happening to the refugee wave. Channelry is a crime against the state. The protection of state borders is the prerogative and priority of the Ministry of Interior. Trafficking in human beings, in turn, is the recruitment, transport, concealment or reception of persons for the purpose of exploitation. Here lies, in fact, the difference between the refugee problem and the related crimes. There is also a specialized Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, which defines and directs the implementation of national policy on countering trafficking in human beings. For this part of the policy I am responsible, Mrs. Bachvarova will probably complement me more in refugees. From a European point of view, only a week ago by a major European politician, Mrs Merkel, was said to be the next major European policy. Indeed, this is proved by several very important steps of the European Commission. First in May, when the plan was developed, in Bulgaria he received more fame with the so-called quotas, which at this stage are voluntary, but probably the topic will develop. For Bulgaria are somewhere around 560, perhaps Minister Bachvarova will correct me if there are 563 possible additions from this quota in Bulgaria. 1900 Europeans have a refugee on their hands. The example given by the European Commission is that European countries do not experience for the first time a problem of such a large scale. I would also like to draw attention to the expansion of operations - Poseidon - thanks to which hundreds of lives have been saved. The European Commission is beginning the construction of the so-called hotspots, where data processing can be done quickly and distinguish between people who really seek asylum because there is a danger to their lives and economic migrants. If necessary, such a point could also be created in Bulgaria. Greece and Italy are currently the first candidates to build similar points. The plan is as follows: firstly, its recognition, the second.. designation of safe countries of origin, to which the refugee policies of the European Union and the protection of refugees do not apply. Thirdly, a very strong combination of the refugee problem with security and non-terrorism in Europe, and a great integration policy, which is undoubtedly very important. These are the directions in which you will work. Consciously, I am not beginning to clarify the issue of moving out, of making the maximum peace process to end in countries like Syria, Egypt. It's a long question, and I'm sure you know him well enough yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Naydenov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, frankly, I am not satisfied with this answer. I must also express the disappointment of my colleagues from the BSP Parliamentary Group. I know well who has what responsibilities and what is the division of functions between the Deputy Prime Ministers or between the respective ministers. We don't need to outline these responsibilities. What we need is to make sure that the Bulgarian government, which bears one of the main responsibility for what is happening in the country, including with regard to refugees, and which will have the heavy responsibility to participate in different meetings in a European format at different levels, has a sufficiently clear position on the whole range of issues that sound today. Look, I'm not asking you about the hot spots or the number of quotas that are voluntary at this point, although some are already saying that the quota system has passed, it is in the past. I am talking about the need to have an answer to the question: how will the Minister of Interior go on 14 and 15 September at the ministers' meeting? What will be the attitude of the Bulgarian representative, whoever he is, or the president of the summit between the European and African countries in November? Madam Deputy Prime Minister, it is more important to know the attitude on this: today the question is asked and it is said that the Dublin agreement is dead. What appears at the place of the Dublin Agreement and what is the attitude of the Bulgarian government? Secondly, it is said that a revision is needed or, if you will, a refusal of the Schengen Agreement and a restoration of border control. What are we going to do as a position? Thirdly, the thesis is launched that for each country that refuses to accept refugees, whether in the form of a mandatory or voluntary quota euro funds will be stopped. What is our answer to this whole situation? What I am interested in, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, and I hope that this will be clarified as soon as possible, we are proposing a meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security. Do you accept such a proposal and are you prepared to develop a report and support such an initiative that is essential in the situation we are in, no matter what season we are in and on the eve of what political event in the face of future municipal elections we are in?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat. Please consider that the time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u63	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u64	Mr. Naydenov, I also have questions from this tribune. Is it clear to everyone that when it comes to a convention and the Dublin Agreement is a convention, this goes through the National Assembly? I think the answer is a clear yes. If we have any idea of derogating, changing or doing anything with an international convention, it will be submitted in due order to the National Assembly. This one first. Second, refusal of Schengen is not possible! No! It has not crossed the mind of the Bulgarian government to give up Schengen. It's part of our contract. We believe that the Schengen security system is good for Europe. Usually what is good for Europe is also good for Bulgaria. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Thirdly, do we need any emergency measures? When there is no reason to take urgent measures, there is no need to exploit the subject unnecessarily. We do not have the influx of refugees that we cannot deal with, we do not have what is happening in Hungary, we do not have public discontent or misunderstanding on this issue. Bulgaria remains a country that respects its commitments with its understanding of the humanitarian problem that raises refugees and the security problem, which is also very important for our country and on which the Bulgarian institutions work. Of course, I am ready to discuss with you every idea you have, especially when it is time to implement it. I will inform you regularly if there is a problem with the Dublin Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has the floor of the People's Representative Iliya Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Prime Minister! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. Bulgaria has ratified the European Convention on Human Rights. It is precisely the basic logic and concept of the Strasbourg Court that is human rights. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, what is your attitude towards this Court as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for coalition policy, what is your opinion on the fact that your coalition partner has stated: The Court of Justice in Strasbourg should mind its own business!............................ We believe that this speech is very responsible and against any European norms. You, as Deputy Prime Minister, should have an attitude and an opinion on this statement by your coalition partner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u67	Mr. Iliev, I don't think this is a question of blitzcontrol. But if Mrs. Bachvarova decides to express her opinion...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u68	Mr. Iliev, I accept your question in a personal capacity. With regard to the European Court of Human Rights, I respect and respect. I accept these positions. As for my attitude towards the speech of these partners, I can express my personal attitude as a portfolio deputy prime minister for coalition policy, but not with regard to the entire coalition. I think that such statements should be well-founded, and when international institutions are pronounced, we should know very well the peculiarities of the Bulgarian situation. We work to bring these positions closer together and provide the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is not in personal quality, but rather as chairman of the Coalition Council, which is responsible for coalition policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u71	This is not about blitzcontrol under art. 104.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u72	This is a principle issue because the statement of a coalition partner on such principled issues is very responsible in our view. You, as the largest political party and mandate carrier, must have an opinion on such important responsibilities of national importance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Iliev. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block has the floor of the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The government achieved a stabilisation of the Bulgarian economy. The next step is growth. In order to have economic growth, however, it is important for fuel prices in Bulgaria to be comparable to other European countries to be competitive. The analysis that we did yesterday from the site in the Energy.yu is showing that the price of diesel without taxes in Bulgaria is the second highest in the entire European Union. The second highest in the whole of the European Union after Malta! On average for the European Union, the diesel in Bulgaria is 22 cents without taxes higher than the average price in the European Union. The diesel in Bulgaria is 22 cents more expensive than the average throughout the European Union! In countries like Austria and Belgium, the price difference is between 42 and 43 cents per litre. I give you an example with a smaller side, because the problem was in the size of the countries I heard from some prominent experts. The difference with Lithuania is 37 cents per liter, without taxes. All this means that there is a serious problem in the fuel market in Bulgaria. In this regard, my question is to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. I've asked him before. Since then, there have been concrete results. With the votes of the reformers, GERB and the patriots took a decision for a new KPC because the current composition cannot be re-elected. This is one key step for us to have a KPC that protects competition. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, don't you think there's a need to remove obstacles to competition? Apparently, there are those to be diesel in Bulgaria the second most expensive in the European Union and to have more competition? Do you not think that you should ask the representative of the state in Lukoil (Lukoil) Rumen Ovcharov to prepare a report on the reasons for this situation in Bulgaria and to present it to the National Assembly, as you trust him to be the representative of the state in Lukoil (Lukoil)? It should open our eyes and tell us how diesel should not be the second most expensive in the European Union. [[Laughter and a line from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, before Deputy Prime Minister Donchev answers, let me remind you of the provisions of art. 104 The question is asked about a common policy and no questions on specific numbers are allowed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, we have been discussing fuel prices since the beginning of the year. I see there are questions about Friday parliamentary control. Obviously, we'll keep talking about it. Speaking well is not enough at all. There's not enough talk. Therefore, as early as June, I wrote to the Commission for Protection of Competition a letter in which I advised them that, given the anomalies being observed, it is extremely good to create a sector of the sector. Given the fact that the data you share is correct, something worse is similar, historical months back, looking at things. By mid-August, the KPC informed us that as early as the end of June, on the basis of my letter, they had decided to launch a similar sector. In addition to all the measures to be taken by various state institutions, I will not comment again on the checks of nearly 22 thousand sites, which were carried out by the structures of the Ministry of Economy, except what could be done and will be completed by the revenue agencies. I mean the NRA and the Customs Agency, because if, on the basis of this information, we have a reasonable assumption that the Bulgarian citizens are being harmed, in many cases we have the hypothesis that the budget could be harmed too. The main work here on whether there is a cartel or not on the market must be done by the portfolio committee. It's her authority. It can be pronounced in this direction. I would remind all MPs that it has the right to impose fines and a percentage of the turnover of the company concerned, i.e. the fines, could be of huge proportions. The state administration and the structures in the government are at the disposal of the committee in question to fill it with any information it needs. By the way, the Commission itself has already requested information from the first seven companies on the market. I sincerely hope and believe that she will do her job in the best way. I would like to cool off the optimism a similar sector................................... and take time................................................ In any case, we can't see the result of it earlier than the next few months. And here is a question which will probably be of the attention of the Bulgarian Parliament very soon. If you look at current legislation, the Commission is not entitled to work with tax information. She has the right to ask all the companies, and they can respond completely respectfully to her, and they could give her quite different data from those they give to the NRA. And here is a legitimate question as to whether the Commission in question should not be given the right through the NRA to use this information, which is in the Agency's arrays. I believe that this would definitely help the analyses it makes to be much more precise and to pronounce in favor of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u77	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Line. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u78	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for the serious and thorough answer. However, ask yourself the question and you, Mr. Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, and all of you MPs: why on other markets where there are such big differences, again I tell you, diesel in Bulgaria is the second most expensive across the European Union, competition works, imports are immediately made and these differences disappear? There's obviously something wrong here. And obviously, if the state doesn't intervene, only analysis will continue. By the way, there have been a lot of analyses by the KPC on the topic of Goriva and these analyses have not helped us so far. Therefore, colleagues, you understand that for the first time, a new kind of committee must be made, with a new composition of people who are determined, responsible and who protect competition, including fines and penalties where necessary. Otherwise, honourable Members, the situation will continue to be as it is at the moment, and this directly prevents us from growing. With fuel prices so high, bear in mind, and with all the consequences of the financial crisis, we pay with the fact that the Bulgarian economy is growing less. We pay a specific price every day, every month and the highest, of course, the ruling majority and the government. I hope the necessary determination and also, Mr. Donchev, do you not think that changes in the Law on excises and tax warehouses are possible to facilitate the import of fuels in Bulgaria? This is the other topic on which we will work with you, we will give our proposals and we will expect your feedback. The relief of imports will strengthen competition and eliminate such anomalies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and have a douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u80	You are right, Mr. Dimitrov, about the importance that fuel prices have in terms of economic growth. Fuel de facto is the blood of the economy. The lower prices, the better not only for consumers, but also for economic conjuncture, including growth. The data you are quoting at the beginning about prices is undoubtedly disturbing. It's not only unacceptable, the bad news is it's hard to explain. If there was a functioning market without any defects, a similar situation could hardly be explained. And on the occasion of your banter related to Lukoil, Lukoil could not give us an answer to the question for one simple reason: if there is a functioning market, if a refinery sells at prices higher than market prices, this should be compensated by imports. So far, the arguments that are drawn that Bulgaria did not have its own production, that it had only one refinery, are arguments that cannot explain the situation. Fuels are stock and they cost as much as they cost, no matter how many refineries there are and whether the country has a yield or not. Obviously, if there's a problem, he's connected to some kind of defect. I'm paying attention to what I'm saying, because I'm also an institution except in my personal capacity. Apparently, there's some defect in the market. The one who needs to identify the defect is the Commission for Protection of Competition. And what we have to do is help them in every way. I am open to discuss any other possible changes in legislation to ensure that there is a functioning liberal market in Bulgaria. The problem is not the market, the problem could be a defect in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front is in line. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u82	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the House, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question relates to a procedure initiated and terminated, a legal procedure regarding the removal of illegally built buildings in a neighborhood of the village of Marchevo, the municipality of Garmen. This procedure was terminated by a controversial letter, unlike confusion it was not a question just now, Mr. Glauchev, but a statement by a representative of the DPS about some decision of the European Court of Justice. There isn't one! Let's all be clear! We are talking about a letter from a secretary of the European Court of Justice, an official.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u83	What's your question, Mr. Simeonov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u84	Yeah, I'll finish it. I haven't asked it yet. Did I take my time? I still have time, don't I?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u85	About the question, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u86	For the question, yes. In this regard, my question is as follows: the termination of the procedure is somewhat understandable by purely humane, human considerations, but not by legal considerations. My question is this: I want you to answer categorically and clearly, and if possible with approximate deadlines, when will the procedure continue and the enforcement of the law be completed against these 124 illegal buildings, if you have information? As the first stage, for 22, for which the procedure was completed and the notifications were given, and for the rest up to 124? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Madame Deputy Minister... Your question is...? Who are you asking a question to?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u88	To Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u89	Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I will be very brief and specific. I assume you're familiar with the files, the number of objects, the number of orders to tear down. If there has been a delay in action at the moment, I think that it is not based on any correspondence, including with the European institutions, but is related to the commitment of the state when it destroys, under the provisions of the Law on Construction in the Area, on a legitimate housing from a social and human point of view, to offer conditions for crisis housing to the people who inhabit the buildings. For this reason and because of the correspondence with the local authorities, given that until now the DNCK has not received information about the procedure for the accommodation of the affected families, the deadline for enforcement of the orders is 30 September this year, which I think directly answers your question
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u91	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u92	Thanks for the answer. Mr. Donchev, however, I would like to draw attention to you that there is nowhere in the Bulgarian legislation such a text to require the offering of shelter, although I repeat, it is humane and understandable. But it is important whether the procedure will continue. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. For the next question, by the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! In the period 31 July " 31 December 2018 Bulgaria will for the first time chair in the European Union. Simply put, the Republic of Bulgaria will define the priorities and policy of the European Union. In this regard, my question is as follows: what will be the agenda of the Presidency of Bulgaria and the priorities that will affect Bulgaria during the given period?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u95	Your question, I presume, is it to Mrs. Kuneva?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u96	My question is to Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Here you are, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u98	Dear Mr. National Representative! Yes, 2018 is a very important year for Bulgaria and we are all aware of that. Parliament will be very strongly committed to the Presidency of Bulgaria. Allow me a little informally to tell you that you cannot make the first impression a second time, and this is our first Presidency and what we leave as a clue will remain for many years. In addition, the Presidency has a rating and each Presidency is struggling to rank higher in the rating. It is monitored by non-governmental organisations evaluated by them by the European public. Yes, you're right, this is a very good chance for our country. This is the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union. The parties participating in the Presidency shall be grouped together with three. We are holding a presidency together with Britain and Estonia. We are the last in the second half of 2018. However, the priorities of each Presidency have certain frameworks. They relate to the European Commission's plan for five years to come, to the European Parliament and to a large extent to the Council. That's the first limit. The second restriction, and that is according to the treaties that hold the countries together in the European Union, is that they are being done after the last, after the Lisbon Treaty, priorities for a year and a half. That is, we are committed to the two other presidencies and the priorities, so to speak, are passed on by the Presidency to the Presidency. In the preliminary attitudes about how we can influence Europe's agenda, so to speak, from the menu of what is on the table, is that we choose what is most important for Bulgaria. Without a doubt, energy will be such a topic. This is also the attitude of the Council of Ministers. Security, migration, too, in my opinion. Given that Britain is the country with which the three-way presidency begins, I believe that they will put the financial services on their agenda and Estonia is undoubtedly the digital economy. That is, we will be linked to these priorities. Our first joint threesome is in December of this year. Apart from this formal agenda, however, which will show how many acts will be adopted during the Bulgarian Presidency, how we will deal with the working groups, there are two very important indicators. One of the major agendas is what we will raise as a priority, i.e. from the existing priorities what we will move forward. The second, no less important, are the events and parallel meetings of the Presidency. For France, for example, such a topic was the Mediterranean. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For Greece, such a topic were the Western Balkans. Here we have more freedom, we have to discuss it with you and decide the best for Bulgaria to make an ambitious Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Iglev, will you take advantage of the right to reply? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! As for Estonia, as I understand it, priority will be digital services, I think that for Bulgaria and for the European Union youth unemployment is a great scourge, as the southern parts of Spain, Greece and Italy are heavily affected, nearly 50% youth unemployment for young people up to 25 years old. I think that our Presidency in the European Union is quite normal to cover youth policy, such as employment, realization and perspective for young people up to 25 years of age. This is a big problem and I think it is normal to put it as a priority by our Presidency in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Iglev. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u102	You have the right, even more the previous year, Varna will be a European youth capital. So we need to use even during the previous Presidency of the Estonian Presidency to do many things about Bulgaria's youth capital of Europe. Otherwise, the issues of growth and unemployment cannot be removed from the agenda. We can make a big accompanying event if we have the opportunity, including budgetaryally, for this. Otherwise, what Bulgaria can do is specifically concentrate on the files, on the acts that must be completed during our Presidency. This means moving them forward on the European agenda, and I believe that your remark is absolutely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The political party's parliamentary group, Ataka, will ask the people's representative Magdalena Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u104	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers and colleagues! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, on 25 August 2015, you stated that your office intends to deal with the crisis created by the coming Islamic masses, three scenarios of which the most apocalyptic was unlikely. Yesterday you said you would open, I quote: two more centres for registration of refugees. The question is: first, where are you going to find these registration centres? A decent response suggests that you give a definition of what this is. The center for registration of incoming in large numbers illegally crossing the border foreigners. Secondly, which scenario is in order and what would the apocalyptic scenario, which you think is unlikely? I can provide you with some statistics from the magazine "Economist" which came out today, and it is clear that Bulgaria is the most hospitable country in the whole European Union, as it has given refugee or humanitarian status to 94% of all requested one. For your information, Germany, for example, has limited itself to the modest 42%, Hungary, by 9%, UK by 39%. And we're looking at 94%. Whoever didn't ask, he didn't get refugee status without regard to national security and social interests. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u106	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I will start my answer backwards. The statistics you are quoting reflect a very significant feature of migration pressure on different countries. People who reach our border and enter Bulgaria's territory meet the requirements, 94 of them, 95% of them, for obtaining refugee status. The nature, structure of the refugee wave in other countries is very different. In Germany, more than half of migrants are not responsible for obtaining refugee status because they are mainly economic migrants from Kosovo, Serbia and Albania. They do not receive one, and there, in these countries, policy is aimed at a return policy because they are believed to come from countries of safe origin. We mainly include Syrian citizens, Afghan citizens and Iraqis who qualify for refugee status and asylum seekers. This is the great challenge for dealing with the problem in our country, although the total number of people who cross the Bulgarian border, comparable to the other countries, is not that great, but the intensity of the risk groups is extremely high. We, as a European state, and in compliance with international conventions, are obliged to grant this status because these are citizens whose lives are at stake. I think the great dignity of our policy is that we manage to deal with the problem and register all who enter legally, identify their origins, their personality, take their dactiloscopic prints to know who enters Bulgarian territory. From now on, our efforts are to succeed illegal migrants, that is, people entering a green border, mainly from Turkey, to be detained and brought to the registration centres, so that we can actually channel the process. I think that at the moment, despite the difficulties we have, despite the almost triple increase in pressure intensity, we manage to manage the situation and the maximum number of people entering our territory to be registered, to be granted such status and to provide them with care in refugee centres, as requires our welfare. It is true that the Ministry of Interior has developed an operational action plan for three possible developments in the refugee pressure situation. This was done two months ago in view of our own requirement to know what action we should take if there are signs of increasing pressure intensity. We're ready in three different options, and we know how we would act. At the moment, we are still acting on the first option, because we are really able to control the situation. We are preparing ourselves for a second option, perhaps, by examining the possibility of revealing not two but six additional registration centres, in order to prevent what is happening in Macedonia and Serbia. Anyone who is able to cross the border legally or illegally, should be able to register it and provide it with the opportunities to continue, seek asylum, and the relevant humanitarian objectives. It's the policy of our government. I do not see any threat to national security, we are working even more with the various institutions, including the SANS, so that we can ensure that we are able to control these flows. The situation is extremely dynamic. There is a difficult amount of refugee pressure in neighbouring countries, so the final option is not excluded where our powers do not allow us to cope. However, I think we will not get there because one of the reasons Bulgaria has currently passed around 16 thousand. refugees, unlike the 160 thousand in Macedonia, about 110 thousand in Serbia, much more in Greece, are those people and those who help them and traffic them know that it is very difficult to pass through Bulgarian territory. Even if we can't keep them at the entrance, we're able to keep about the same number of exits on the border as we are on the territory of the country. After each detention, we register them. I think these are quite good guarantees for the situation in the country and for the security of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Tasheva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u108	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have produced another news: there are not two, but six registration centres. I don't understand why you didn't say which cities or villages. Now you have the opportunity to point them out, if you know them, and not to speak so English. Secondly, from everything you've said, we understand that first of all, you have no idea of national security and you understand your role in dealing with the migratory pressures such as accommodation, care, at all courtship of the incoming, illegally crossing the Bulgarian border all sorts of criminals and unidentified sites. [[Laughter, raging in the majority.]] You and your politics have turned Bulgaria into a laundromat of false identities. We have said this in the past National Assembly, and that is why we wanted the resignation of your predecessor Tsvetlin Yovchev. [[Extending laughter and raging in the majority.]] Please go out and explain in which six cities you will accommodate this Islamic table! [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u110	Mrs. Tasheva, if anyone knows where these six cities are, it's me, but I'll let you know when there's a common solution. These are registration centers, not accommodation centers. I think this is the most civilized measure we can apply of all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The ABC Parliamentary Group will ask the people's representative Miho Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u112	Mr. Chairman, our parliamentary group has two questions for the Prime Minister. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the summer weeks and months made a good impression the participation of the Prime Minister in the exercises of the Bulgarian Army at national level and in the exercises with international participation, as well as visiting educational institutions. This is one finding that I take as positive. Secondly, the Prime Minister assessed the state of certain types of troops of the types of armed forces, which was accepted with excitement, but I would say, with hope of the military, reserve army and a large part of the Bulgarian citizens. The third finding before I formulate the issue is that the review of the Bulgarian Army's capabilities targets on the NATO line is currently under way for a two-year period. The initial assessment is poorly addressed on the occasion of our fighting ability. My question, Mr. Prime Minister, is: Have your and the ministers updated their views on the construction of the new military budget for 2016 in order to ensure and prepare the entire staff of the Bulgarian Army, the outdated fighting equipment and the gradual modernisation of the armed forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. General, I have actually taken the time together with the military minister and other colleagues we visited several of the educational institutions and classes and respectively the trainings that NATO carried out on the territory of Bulgaria, together with other forces. I must tell you that in honor of all of us who are here, I have always stressed how important it is that we both have a parliament and a government in a very complicated political environment in the Balkans, where many other countries could not understand each other, so I say for the joy of all of us, we have quite capable, especially in our modern part as an army, wonderful boys and commanders. And with a new methodology, by which the gene is the same. Radev's working, they've gone a long way. Especially in the Air Force at 23 years of flying, 24-year-olds do unique things. That's why I'm addressing you. We tried to stimulate them, to praise them, because they really showed great skill. It's the same with sailors, it's the same in other places. As a result of the joint teachings that are being conducted and of the polygons, respectively, of the Land Forces. For the first time in these exercises were the Land Troops, respectively the rocket troops, the Air Force, over 1200.. 1300 soldiers and sergeants who really did good things. The report on our fighting ability, which comes from NATO, I can now safely say that you are no longer military, you have become a member of parliament because it is badly addressed as progress in the judiciary and the Monitoring Report when progress is said, only criticism follows after it. This is for the budget we have. That's why we had several meetings with the Minister of Defence, signed a memorandum - I hope that it will finalise with the Polish side 26 "27 fighters" to be upgraded in a period of five or six years, hoping that by then we will have more money to buy a modern fighter. But what Shabla demonstrated with the available equipment was very good, and I hope we can finalise, as the Minister of Defence and the Finance Minister have promised him that when the budget is updated, this money will come in and we will make these repairs. I don't want to go back for ships, for the state of the art, for the assembly of helicopters, for transport planes. There's no point in losing energy in this. It is better to mobilize ourselves in the next year and adopt this strategy and gradually equip the army. Thank you for your attention. It enters our plans with the money we collect in excess of the revenue, in the next one or two years, to enter into the NATO standard that we have signed after all as a state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u115	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Mihov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u116	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, as I and the parliamentary group, but I hope the Defence Committee is also changing the feeling that in the coming months the Bulgarian army will have greater care and look at itself because the main pillar of national security is defence. At the same time, I would also like to share with the people's representation that some teachings in all cases are a dose of exposure... the most prepared, the most correct. And using military terminology, this is not the range of surgery we may have to conduct during and over. So let's not be fooled just by what we've shown and demonstrated. It was no coincidence in my question that I said: "For the preparation of the entire staff. I am also very happy for the encouragement of the Minister of Defence, but I hope that only one letter of intent between Poland and Bulgaria is not enough. And I'm very worried about how well we're gonna finalize it. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Mr. Prime Minister, will you take advantage of this? I won't. A question to the Prime Minister has the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov, but this is not really my question, a question raised yesterday by the protesters Bulgarian citizens against fuel prices. True, yesterday the protesters Bulgarian citizens were few, but in Bulgaria every big thing starts with few people. Since the time is short, I immediately ask you these questions, which are more than topical. Why, Prime Minister, the poorest country in Europe pays the most expensive fuel and shouldn't there be a reduction in fuel prices compared to the standard of living in Bulgaria? Second question of the protesters yesterday Bulgarian citizens: when will you request the resignation of Minister Bozidar Lukarski, who apparently sided with the monopolies, not announcing the main culprit for the price of fuel in the face of the sacred cow in Bulgaria? Will you initiate, Mr. Prime Minister, an investigation into why and how a company is allowed, it's about Lukoil, holding half of the fuel market in retail and almost the entire market in wholesale fuel? And last question: Are you ready to adopt a law....................... that Bulgarian citizens can't sell in their chains, in their retail chains, including those dedicated to franchise, at prices higher than 20% of those wholesale? And also, this is my question now, but I suppose that the protesters Bulgarian citizens support it: it is obvious to the entire Bulgarian people that there is a fuel price cartel in Bulgaria. See today the prices of the gas station the most mass fuel everywhere, in all gas stations, two levs and 15 cents, but the Commission for Protection of Competition states quite the opposite that it cannot intervene, that there is no power, that this is a market and we have to comply with this market. Moreover, the spokesperson of the Commission for Protection of Competition stated that he and his leadership do not have this opportunity and rights. I would be grateful if you would respond not to me, but to the protesters Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I've been sketching the questions pretty much. I will respond to you, and through the mass media everyone can get their answers. For several months we have started actions and they are concentrated mainly in the anti-trafficking and corruption unit, which I have repeatedly told you is built by the NRA, customs, BOP, DANS and daily there are monitoring prosecutors who coordinate all their activities. From the way they were constructed by cigarettes, alcohol, sugar products, meats, oil, analyzed and found that almost all spheres of different degrees had imperfections or deliberately made laws and regulations that the lobbys that were moving them had created in practice an opportunity for extremely ineffective activity. What you said about Minister Lukarski's resignation, if you will, even there, but this has always been the case: two agencies one puts, the other controls. The worse at the time when they are placed, or at the time when companies are being built that have nothing to do with the state, place their fillings for two weeks. At the moment from our work, I can assure everyone else that not only from today to Saturday or from Saturday to Monday, as said by a respected colleague, in the morning on one of the television stations, 24 hours is currently being worked on all tax warehouses, because somehow the tax warehouses remained in the laws and regulations without regulation of their activities. I'm not going back to the competition and why we have a refinery. Anyone can do God willing. We have a similar refinery in Rakovski, I don't know why only one is described. I can assure you that on 7 September there will be a lot of proposals for amendments to the laws of the Ministry of Finance and I hope that you will personally support them. First of all, for the coloured fuels, I don't know what your opinion is, to have them or not. Tax warehouses - why are they out of control? We are making changes that will regulate all of this and I think they will have a very good effect on this. Indeed, the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC) is an independent body, but it is up to parliament to choose such a leadership of the KPC that we do not have to comment on this process now. If the state is more relevant to the electricity, we don't have any fuel. We can't say anything about whether it's a cartel or not, the Commission has to say it, it has to prove it. She hasn't proven it in so many years. The fact is, you see yourself from what's coming out right now, hundreds of tons of colored fuel in known and unknown gas stations, stolen from excise duty, stolen from VAT. Since we have a meeting every Wednesday, perhaps today the prosecution will come up with information about what has been done so far as a brief text. With the changes that we will be proposing next week, which I rely on parliament to support, because there will be a lot of pressure, you will see that hundreds of millions will be saved in the coming months and companies will be disciplined. If Parliament were to come to such drastic laws as you propose, there is a Commission, I would support it. The previous speeches stressed that fuels are extremely important for competitiveness. By the way, I have a meeting tomorrow with the concessionaires of our gas and oil fields. What is requested is now paying for the platforms and I hope that soon in our Black Sea, at Han Asparuh, the exploration for natural gas and oil production will begin. In the Romanian part, where concessions have not been stopped over the years, Romania is now spending only about 10. 12% imported gas. Let us have, in this case, a general decision of the Parliament, once we have proposed the bills, to be adopted. I spoke with my reformers this morning, with Mr. Simeonov, I have spoken with him, and I hope with the other colleagues, I have not talked to ABB. This package will solve many of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u121	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Enchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u122	Prime Minister, I allow myself to make one request in the last 30 days You talk a lot, almost every day, about fuel quality, but almost never about fuel prices. So I'd like to ask you, who are you protecting? Moreover, in relation to what you talked about fuel quality, an official inspection by the Ministry of Economy found that the violations were below 1%, Mr. Prime Minister. We therefore need to talk about fuel prices and not so much about their quality. Since your Minister Lukarski claims that the state has no right to interfere in the fuel market, I will tell you something that Lukarski himself admitted yesterday. He said that in Austria there is a state distributor of fuels that sells at prices close to producers and thus maintain low fuel prices in Austria. What prevents us from introducing this model, or are you afraid you'll be charged with aggravation of the communist past? Finally, to say the most important thing I could not finish in my previous speech. When we talk about the Commission for Protection of Competition, I believe that a legislative initiative should be taken to change this leadership due to its inadequacy to control, to protect competition in Bulgaria. Also, Prime Minister, I hope that there will be MPs who will support this proposal for a change in the management of the Commission for Protection of Competition in Bulgaria. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u123	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. This is Parliament's job. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I am talking about quality, I am also talking about prices, but since we are a market economy, the government cannot determine the price. If we allow ourselves to do so willingly, as we choose, to set the prices, believe me, none of you will be satisfied, not a single Bulgarian citizen. We lived in those years. I understand populism, I understand the desire to speak against me, I accept it, but we still have to have boundaries. I'm talking about fuel quality because at mass, people are damaged cars, especially in various government stations, gas stations that are left out of control. Here's the day before yesterday, one over 170 pounds of colored fuel has been held. I don't want to go into the details. As far as I know, parliament has made a decision about the KPC all that we are talking about to become a fact in September. We've declared it. Instead of trying to make politics out of this... Certainly, it may be late, as you would like to call it, but the fact is that at the moment Parliament and the government have the necessary desire, feeling, will to arrange this sector as well. In this case, I am absolutely counting on my colleagues from BSP, DPS, attacking, and yourself when the time comes to vote, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u125	Thank you, Prime Minister. We begin the second round of questions. The parliamentary group of the political party GERB is next. Any questions? [[Relations between Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and President Dimitar Glauchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u126	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva. As the refugee wave grew, more and more EU member states talked about border control. Do you think this could affect our entry into Schengen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mrs. Kuneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u128	Dear Mr. People's Representative, a long time has been spoken, especially actively after what started with the great refugee wave and for other security reasons, about how Schengen legislation needs to be changed so that it can meet modern challenges. This thing is going to happen. At the beginning of this year, after the incident with Charlie Ebdo, France came up with 10 points, one of which was just related to a change in Schengen legislation. However, no one seriously believes that Schengen legislation will no longer act and will not be improved on the basis of new touches to it, but simply the countries will start renationalising this policy. It is therefore very important that Bulgaria becomes part of the Schengen area. We are, of course, talking about phased entry into Schengen so that we can be a country, an equal participant with a voice, with participation when it comes to changing this legislation. It is now that this new European security policy at the external borders is being drawn up, that it is not acceptable for Bulgaria to stand outside. We are an external border of the European Union, which we guard professionally and well. The services work equally with the other partners and deserve to be appreciated. Not only Eurostats, but also politicians who defend European integration as closely as possible raise the issues of reforming Schengen. In this respect, of course, Bulgaria can also say how to reform this policy, but Schengen remains a policy for more security. It is in this situation that we want more security for Bulgaria as well. I have made this clear in all of my meetings, including the last one in Finland, with the Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, with the Minister of Justice and with the Minister of Economy Olli Rehn. We expect the request for Bulgaria's entry into the Schengen area to be examined gradually as early as October, because we are convinced that our country deserves and can.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The Lord's Christ, a line? I won't. Next question from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u130	Ask your question. He'll come and answer. [[Relations from BSP LB and DPS.]] He'll hear it, he'll hear it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u131	Is there another question not to the Prime Minister? You're welcome from the Reformation Unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question concerns the policy that the Council of Ministers, respectively the Ministry of Interior, also partly my question is to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova in terms of road safety measures and, in particular, of course, the fight against the so-called war on the roads. Mrs. Bachvarova, before the parliamentary vacation you became a patron, so to speak, the initiator of a working group to prepare adequate legislative changes in the most pressing problems that the public was worried about. These were then, to recall, all these problems with the jigs, with the difficulties of serving penal decrees to leaders with numerous violations, with the inability to be sanctioned because they were hiding and so on, that is, these problems were then somewhat addressed. A task force was created. She, as far as I know, started working. Including our colleagues from the Reform bloc, we have also proposed specific legislative proposals to it, which may serve as the basis of a bill, but I see now that new problems have actually arisen, and very serious, with the so-called Gonkis and with these outrage that have happened and taken human lives. You yourself have announced several new measures that the Ministry intends to take regarding the removal of intruders from the movement, their establishment in time, the sanctioning and so on, but obviously there are many new things that appear and which need to be addressed. And in this sense, my question to you is: how do you see the work of this working group? Eventually, within what deadlines could we expect a more specific product from it as a bill which could possibly be tabled by MPs discussed in Parliament and adopted? And, of course, would it not be wise for the working group to attract representatives of local authorities who would also be involved in the process and really think about adequate measures to address all these problems, whether it be the setting of cameras, the placing of raised pedestrian paths, the so-called lying police officers, all these problems that the local authorities could also address and be useful in solving them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u134	Dear Mr. Slavov, really the policy of limiting road accidents is a top priority in the work of the Ministry. We have worked very actively all summer months and the development of the situation provokes the development of the measures we are implementing so that we can ensure greater road security. What we have found is that the lack of a systematic and consistent policy is perhaps the most important factor for the heavy road transport situation that we are currently registering. The working group you are asking for also works during the summer months and for explainable reasons did not participate representatives of Parliament, but now, at this stage, quite advanced, to which the group has reached, you will be invited. I think that representatives of the local authorities may also be involved in the course of the subsequent public discussion. Our common understanding is that we need complex measures and systematic, consistent road control with all possible technical and operational means. What I can tell you as a result of the checks carried out is, for the period in August: total detected violations 46 715. Of these, 15 843 were identified in the presence of a control body. The tickets issued are 22,944. The measures taken to establish an administrative infringement shall be 18,088. The electronic slips issued by 25 stationary and 148 mobile cameras are 24 018. Established unauthorized drivers.. 2366. I would like to draw attention to all of you: 2366 unable drivers on the country's roads in just one month who are established! They are more than the established drivers who drive motor vehicles after the use of alcohol Pestilences of pedestrians - 263, because we believe that measures should also be fairly imposed in respect of all participants in the process. Disorders of cyclists found 24 in the last two weeks of August, when we started to register these violations as well. Control of aggressive drivers 731 violations, considered from August 20th to August 31st, in just ten days. These are the results of our interference during traffic. Joint checks have been carried out with the DAI "25." Disturbing small towns in 1928 over the last two weeks something that has not been registered. There we deliberately redirected more forces and work in small towns and roads between them. 160 are signaled races in this period and we have responded to each one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Let's get this procedure over with. You don't want a line. [[DPS lines.]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, fellow Members! Mr. Chairman, I would like to make it clear will the Prime Minister come to answer the questions so that they are not asked in empty space because both colleague Ninova and colleague from the DPS have questions for him? I would like you to clarify this matter as presiding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u137	Thank you. We know, Mr. Genov. Mr. Glauchev is currently stating the question. [[DPS lines.]] If you really want them to answer, please wait. I think it's really important that you get an answer. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Let's give the Patriot Front a chance and wait anyway, I suggest you get the right answer to the question. I beg your understanding. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff. [[Noise and lines.]] Thanks for understanding. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova and is related, of course, to the threat that is greatest to Bulgaria and Europe in terms of national security. It's about refugees and mostly illegal immigrants. This morning we heard here from a political party, which defines itself as liberal, worried that fences are being built in Europe, that there is a bad attitude towards illegal immigrants. Perhaps this political power dreams of a Europe in which minarets, burkas, deep shawls dominate. This is unacceptable for us. Europe is and must remain a fortress of Christian civilization, a fortress of enlightenment, of the secular state. This wave, this great migration of peoples, who, however, are antagonistic to these values, unfortunately, are subject to integration and do not want to accept European values, are a really serious threat. A month ago, we asked about the degree of readiness to build the facility, which would prevent the intrusion from the foreign border. Something of extreme importance, as we already understand the tragic experience of our neighbours. I would like to renew this topic and we would like to get precise information on the construction of this facility. What can be done about its acceleration? Could we, as parliamentarians, help in this direction, be as a legislative initiative, as aid in the reforming of the budget? Recently, I came across information that in Hungary in two months a 175km facility was built, albeit of another type. We're worried about the slow pace we're making. I hope you disprove me. I would also like you to say more generally, are there any systemic problems in the repatriation of illegal immigrants that Parliament could possibly solve?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u139	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u140	Dear Mr. Veselinov, first of all, we do not separate refugees who cross our borders on religious grounds. Another thing I should specify is that the partition facility that we're building, and I'm going to repeat it: it's only in order to direct those entering the points at which they can be registered, to take down their identity, so that we know who's entering our territory. The facility we are building is planned for an additional 131 km and technologically, engineering is much more complex than what was built so quickly on the Hungarian Serb border. There the height is two meters, represents the location of wire, while the projects we are working on are much more sustainable. In order to be able to guarantee, however, the function for which they are intended and to be able to ensure action in different situations, there are many special openings, doors through which they can be passed. Once again, the goal is to really channel the entire flows. This facility is expensive. It may seem slow to you to work on its construction, but every day we keep track of what's going on. There are two main activities: we are building the roads around the border breach and the technical facility itself. I can tell you that at the moment 20 km from the fence itself is built in the area of the point Lesovo; 10 km from the roads in the section where the Haskovo region operates and the terrains are still being cleared in Burgas to begin the construction of the fence. The very fact of the construction started already results, and that is why in fact the biggest refugee influx is right in the district around Malko Tarnovo, where these actions have not started. We have the assurance that by the end of autumn we will be able to finish the first half of the planned facility. It will allow us to reduce the number of seconded personnel on the border, lower the cost of the maintenance itself for border guards. Its greatest dignity is that it will help us legalize the rapid and clear migratory flows.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Are there lines? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u142	First of all, I want to say that I am satisfied with the numbers I hear. I've come across media information about much more modestly built sections. It is good that the roads are being built, and it would be nice in your response, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, to sound a commitment for the deadline for building the facility, which we hope will indeed be within this year. I would like you to add a few words on the second part of my question: are there any problems with the resettlement of illegal immigrants, as we hear from people working in the area of immigration, for those, above all, about the need for additional political efforts, the countries from which they originate, to take them back? Is there anything going on in that direction? The idea is not to accommodate unlimited numbers of people in centres for illegal immigrants, but those who are not really threatened by war or other types of disasters, as quickly as possible, to head back to their homeland.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mrs. Bachvarova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u144	Excuse me for missing on the second part of the question. The relative number of persons entering our territory to be returned to the countries of origin is small, but at the expense of this in different countries. That's why the process organization itself is a little longer. This is what colleagues from the Directorate of Migration are doing, and we are very active in working with the "Frontex" - organizing joint flights for their return to the countries of origin. Indeed, this, comparable to other countries, is a much smaller number.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Question to the Prime Minister from Mrs Cornelia Ninova from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria..
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u146	Mr. Prime Minister, you're getting nervous too soon. Keep your cool, 'cause we're just getting started. This is the first day of work for us and we have serious work to do. [[Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] In this regard, to you, your team and colleagues I wish a strong, successful and effective session, especially with a good result. You have my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u147	Ask yourself a question, and I'll decide whether to answer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u148	Not you, Prime Minister, the Rules of Parliament say you must answer, and the Rules are law!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u149	Don't engage in dialogue, Mrs. Ninova! Please ask your question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u150	If you want to demonstrate that you do not comply with the laws of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u151	If you have a question, ask yourself a question! Please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u152	I do. Mr. Borisov, since January you claim that the government is collecting more revenue in the budget. You started at a billion, a billion and a half, you made it to two. In the last August, half-hidden information came out in the media that very much of this money has already been spent. My question is: is it true that this is true? How many of them have been spent and for what? If such big money is spent by a government, there must be at least two results, colleagues: either to see visible growth in the economy, because the state makes investments, or to improve people's level of living, because the state invests in incomes, in work and so on. There's nothing like it. Prime Minister, is it true that this money is being spent? Is it true that you spend it pre-electionly there and for whom you decide, because it is convenient for you? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] If not, are you ready to disprove me by submitting a budget update by the end of the year? Several times in your previous speeches today, you said that Parliament is the place where important issues need to be addressed. There is no more important issue in the country than a budget. Let us discuss here how much money the government has raised, to hear the pros, by tightening the revenues, to hear the minuses, however, because you deliberately put lower revenues into the 2015 budget so that you can collect more, and spend it out of control now. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] We have said this even during the discussion of the budget, colleagues. My question is: do you spend this money on your own discretion? Are you prepared to disprove me that it's not election by tabling a budget update by the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ninova! Indeed, revenue agencies work much better. There's plenty of information on the case. Indeed, everything has been done to improve people's well-being. 100 million on a proposal from Minister Kalfin went to the Bulgarian pensioners during Christmas and Easter. Over a hundred million for tobacco producers, a hundred million to repair sections of highways that were not built by us and many others in the well-being of municipalities, no matter whether they are red mayors, mayors of DPS or mayors of GERB. I can disprove you in any way, and you have the wonderful opportunity to invite the Finance Minister of Control and give you all the data. The situation is always pre-election in Bulgaria. There are elections every year. We will look at the budget in October and then we will talk about all these topics. I hope that in the coming years, when you are in office, this good practice will continue. I still remember the time when even customs didn't have guidance for months and very precisely and clearly the distinction between the two periods can be made. The mutual respect between government and parliament is not just in one direction. I've been here for an hour and forty minutes and you could have calmly asked me that question first and answered. You guys were smiling and you think you're annoying me. I do not allow myself to comment on your mental or personal condition, nor do you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Whether I'm calm or nervous or not, it's none of your business. I do not comment that your chairman is not at work. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u155	Thank you, Prime Minister. A line, Mrs. Ninova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u156	Prime Minister, I would not comment on your emotional states if they did not violate Parliament's Rules of Procedure and do not appear here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u157	He's not disturbed. He's answering your question right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u158	... in leaving the room during control when I have a question for you [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u159	The fact is, the Prime Minister is answering your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u160	Otherwise, I'm not interested in your emotional state. Regarding the substance of the question and the answer. All the costs that you have listed the 100 million for pensioners, others for roads and municipalities were foreseen and voted in the 2015 budget. I'm asking you about the extra expenses you make with the extra money raised. Where did they go? They wrote the $800 million newspaper for a month of August. And you didn't answer me essentially the most important question: will you submit a budget update to see how much you have collected and where they go as expenses? Answering, I think of Mr. Mihov from the ABB, you said: "When the budget is updated, we will strengthen the military budget. I thought there would be such an update. In my reply, you said: "In October we will discuss the 2016 budget and then we will talk. So there will be no update on the current budget. Please, in the back, tell me which one is true. For an hour you say two things, and the budget is not a children's fairy tale, colleagues, this is the most serious topic in the country. I specifically ask: are you going to submit, or are you not going to submit, an update of the 2015 budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u161	[[GERB, from place]] You bring it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u162	We would, but the law won't let us. The only entity that can submit a budget update, colleague, fourth term you must be a member of parliament, learn it, is the Council of Ministers. The opposition shall not be entitled to submit an update. Otherwise, we would immediately bring in and argue with arguments what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u163	Prime Minister, come in for an answer! Ms. Ninova, you know well that the budget update is not subject to blitzcontrol, despite the many mandates you have.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, there is a Budget Act and we are working under this law. When the finance minister proposed to me, if he offered to have an update, there'd be an update. If not, you should know that the Minister of Finance is the man who offers or does not. If you want to ask him for parliamentary control, he will answer you. Thank you. Applause by GERB.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u165	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The next question is from MP Mustafa Karadaye of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It's also for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prime Minister, during previous controls, I have provided you with evidence of conscious attempts to violate the Constitution by persons holding senior government positions, in particular ministers from your cabinet, who do not answer questions of MPs asked under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This is a demonstration of clear disrespect to the National Assembly and to the citizens of the country. I am convinced that you do not support the model of formal answers that do not answer the questions asked. Your commitment in this sense was clear and is in the transcripts of the previous National Assembly meeting. My question is: what measures did your ministers take to comply with the Constitution and the laws of the country so that we, the MPs, and you, the Council of Ministers, can fulfill our legal obligations and with common efforts to work for the good future of society and our country? I ask this question because I have not yet received answers to the questions I have asked, and there must be other MPs who receive such formal answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u167	Dear Mr Karadayi, your question is rather to the President of the National Assembly. But if he wants the Prime Minister to answer, he could. I don't think it's about him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadayi, I can only answer in one word that all ministers must respect the Constitution. What Mrs. Bachvarova said to you now, if it is to her respectively the blame, or other ministers, because you did not mention names, is that there are topics on which they answer more generally because there is production on the given persons and they cannot answer you specifically for this reason. That's why they give written answers. If you give me the relevant question, I could check it out and let you know further.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u169	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Karadaye, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, I have sent you in a folder of questions asked and answers received. They're the ones we're talking about right now. Eventually I'll send them back to you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u171	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Prime Minister, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u172	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u173	That concludes your participation in today's parliamentary control. Come in from ABB. You have the floor, Mr. Kuchukov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u174	Dear Prime Minister, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! I have a very brief question for you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Oresharski's government has officially nominated Mrs. Irina Bokova as Secretary General of the United Nations. This is about the fact that, at the end of next year, Mr. Ban Ki-moon's term expires and he has no right to be reelected. In this regard, a number of prestigious sources highlight the opportunities and the good opportunities for Mrs. Bokova to be elected if she is to run. There are also a few facts to this effect. The first fact is that the countries of Eastern Europe have never had a representative as Secretary-General before. Second, that the ranks of the world organization increasingly require the opinion that a woman should take this post. And thirdly, Mrs. Bokova has two successful mandates as director of the UN's largest organization, UNESCO. The Bulgarian government should therefore lead a very active promotional policy. My question is this: is the Bulgarian government standing without a doubt behind Mrs. Bokova's candidacy, and if so, will there be an active aggressive, attractive promotional policy for her candidacy, which could start from the current General Assembly, where our delegation will be led by President Plevneliev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kuchukov! Currently there is a decision of the Council of Ministers in support of Mrs. Bokova. In the previous government, we worked very actively on its election in its UNESCO mandate. So from now on, many, many countries, many talks must be held. If memory serves, it wasn't until next year. So we, as a state at the moment, what was necessary to state it, have stated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u177	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. We also thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. There remains a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister! One of the most demanding, not within the meaning of the Criminal Code of Crime, is the distribution of drugs, production, trafficking and distribution. In this regard, my question is to Mrs. Bachvarova and it is as follows: what is the common policy for combating crimes related to the production, distribution and trafficking of drugs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u180	Dear Mr. Haytov, I can assure you that there is no change in the general policy of the government. We're working very actively in this direction. The results show it. We are currently preparing a renewal of the measures we will take with a view to starting the new school year. If you keep track of the references we provide, we have recently quite regularly limited the production and export of marijuana. These are some of the latest data. Unfortunately, I cannot quote specific figures and kilograms, but recent results have been impressive. There is no change in policy, on the contrary, remains a top priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Haytov, come in for a line. Colleagues, please order in the court! There's only five minutes left!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! The Bulgarian government does not fail to boast of some results, and it is reasonable for example to limit smuggling, by collecting better collection in revenue agencies in terms of the budget. However, it is true that in the last year we have not heard of sign operations by the Ministry of Interior in terms of international traffic, in terms of broken workshops and production bases of amphetamines and other precursors, for example. So I am convinced that whenever the government achieves such results or manages to prevent trafficking and distribution, as well as the production of drugs in large and particularly large sizes, it always becomes public knowledge. That's why my thesis is that the government is falling behind in this activity. Indeed, we all need to make it clear that this type of crime generates both domestic crime and organised crime and, last but not least, generates immense profits to people who are involved in production and organization. So it seems to me that in this regard the Bulgarian public should be a little better informed if it has something to be informed about. I will reserve the right within the framework of the blitzcontrol as Minister of Interior in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, or within the framework of parliamentary control, not blitzcontrol, to detail what you have done over the last one year with clear figures, with clear pre-trial proceedings, with indictments brought to the court, because it is indeed a crime that is clear that it cannot be eradicated, but can be limited to a certain tolerance. We, busy with global problems for the price of oil, refugee flows, sometimes overcome some domestic, homegrown problems, and I believe that this is a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u184	Dear Mr. Haytov, the subject you are really putting is extremely important and essential. I can assure you that we have not stopped working despite the restructuring of the General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime. Colleagues are working. Here I would like to say that they are very active and well working on the international partnership with our partners. All signals react, we achieve results, and this is a practice that has been established over time. The very level of work on this topic is extremely high, close to international standards. As for public awareness, yes, I agree with you that there should be more information. I'm committed to giving you an accurate reference to what's going on. However, the restriction of drug use, their distribution and production must be a broader policy, prevention measures must be included, address different groups and achieve even better results. This is one of our main ambitions and priorities. I also rely on the co-operation of the MPs to make our work much more intense. Thank you. PRESENTER DIMITER GlavaCHEV: Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Any other questions? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Ms. Bachvarova, I would like to remind you that in the last days in the management of GERB in the last term on a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov, a temporary commission on the costing of the construction of the fence at the Bulgarian-Turkish border was proposed by the coalition, led by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Then this proposal, honourable colleagues of GERB, for the price of the fence, was rejected, according to you, by 90 votes against. Now, Mrs. Bachvarova, I ask you, is it not doubtful that the expensive fence that is being built with Turkey was built, firstly, without a competition, surrounded the Public Procurement Act and the price is over 1 million. lv. For a mile? I'm making a comparison right now with Greece. Greece builds 10 km for 3 million. EUR or 600,000. lv. for a mile. How does that work, Mrs. Bachvarova? Who's profiting from all this? It is obvious who loses the Bulgarian treasury and the Bulgarian taxpayers. What's more, the Greek wall is four meters high, and our wall is three meters high. Someone must have won very, very well. Therefore, Mrs. Bachvarova, I believe that after Hungary has built for 43 days a fence of 170 km. Three rows of barbed wire, spirally laid, for 40 days - 170 km, we are more interested in your government, Mrs. Bachvarova, for 6 months now, and in May the project of the fence has not been completed, I can calmly talk about corruption practices which require the establishment of a temporary parliamentary commission to investigate the questionable expensive fence along the border with the Republic of Turkey. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u187	Dear Mr. Enchev, when you make such comparisons, I hope you have seen still photos of the facilities that are being built. Many of them are incomparable to the projects that are being worked on at our border. In the initial estimates we had, from which we started evaluating the projects, we reduced the price exactly twice. The delay came because of the procedures that started because, you know, the construction and financing itself is run by the district governors of three areas. This, in my opinion, guarantees and is a very substantial corruption measure, because we can compare prices. Another very important clarification, which I would like to say, is the price we are paying right now, including the design of the facility, the materials and its construction and the accompanying roads. Along the fence facility, you know that the terrain of the Bulgarian territory is extremely complex, not as in Hungary or elsewhere, where there are plain terrains. It is very difficult at the moment in the Burgas region, which is close to Malko Tarnovo. There are virtually impenetrable places where we continue to build facilities and that is where the main efforts on specific design were. We're in charge of price control. If you have a signal for corruption practices, you can provide them, we can investigate them and whatever is found, if there are such violations, you can also provide them to the prosecution. Our efforts are aimed at not only having some partition facility, but to be as functional as possible, so that we can then not make further efforts and means for its maintenance and repair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Enchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u189	Ms. Bachvarova, the root of evil, i.e. the excessively expensive fence along the border with the Republic of Turkey lies in the fact that in this Parliament the ruling majority agreed to build this fence, bypassing the Public Procurement Act. I therefore propose, of course, that, because as a non-member of a parliamentary group, I have no right to do this, I will propose to my colleagues from the opposition from the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Party of Ataka to propose the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry, as you proposed in February. 2014 and it investigates why this fence was priced, as before helped me Mr. Naydenov with information.. exactly three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u190	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are for the doppelganger, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u191	Dear Mr. Enchev, it is your right as MP to submit a proposal for such a committee and your colleagues to decide whether or not to have such a committee. I would just like to remind you that the procedural features of the construction of this facility, i.e. the failure to open a public contract, was based on a law voted by this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-02.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, and for participating in today's blitzcontrol. We've run out of time for control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Tomorrow, we continue with the first vote on the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials with an importer, the Council of Ministers, a continuation. I'm adjourning today's session, and we'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
