ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, I suggest to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 29 to 31 July 2015: 1. Election of the government of the Bulgarian National Bank: sub-government Head of Management "Bankov supervision", sub-governeur "Bankovo" and sub-governant Head of Management "Emizionno" The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2015. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importer: Menda Stoyanova and group of MPs. 4. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs continued the plenary session last week. 6. Second vote on the National Security Act. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 7. Election of the Ombudsman [[The procedure of choice is by secret ballot according to rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly.]] The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 8. Draft Decision amending decision of the National Assembly of 28 May 2015 establishing a Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 9. Draft Decision amending the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 10 June 2015. 10. Second vote on the Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. Second vote on the Deposit Guarantee Bill in banks. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. First vote on the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is envisaged as point 1 for Friday 31 July 2015. 13. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 14. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. 15. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 16. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the implementation of the project. 17. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 18. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 19. A bill ratifying the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 20. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which includes debates on the questioning of MPs Mikov and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the demographic perspective in front of the country, then we continue with answers to questions and questions. Please vote, fellow Members. Vote 174 MPs: 155, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, in the order of art. 50, para. 3 is receiving a proposal from Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov and Emil Raynov, who propose that a hearing of the Minister of Health Petar Moskov be held this week on a case of violence against Dr. Ilko Ilarionov, as a result of which he rests at UMBALSM. Who's gonna defend the offer? Mr. Raynov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, this is about another case of the many recent cases not only of patients, but of doctors who...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u3	They're patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u4	Not only on patients, but also on doctors, violence has been exercised, resulting in patients becoming patients, resulting in not resting in "Pyrogov" but have died in "Pyrogov." Colleagues, I think the health issues concern all of us, so please support the first point to be: listen to the Minister on the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u5	Please vote on this proposal. They voted 147 MPs: 58, against 35, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u6	Madam President, honourable Members, I am proposing a re-voting. Once again, I would like to point out that this is a symptomatic case in our healthcare and that the minister should be heard to see what measures such incidents will take to prevent them from occurring in hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u7	It's a re-vote. Vote 155 MPs: 59 against 35, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 22 to 28 July 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers are Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers are Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The lead is the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importer is Velizar Enchev. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Tax Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead is the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to supplement the Law on Higher Education. Importers are Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. Draft decision on the debate on the questions of MPs Mihail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the demographic perspective in front of the country. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers are Anna Alexandrova, Svilen Ivanov and Danail Kirilov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports has also been distributed. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. Importers are Nayden Zelenogorski group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Culture and Media. One more message: On 28 July 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in July 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the programme adopted, point one: SELECTION OF THE SUPERVISORS OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK: SUPERVISOR Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Given the extremely important and painful theme on this point. 1, I suggest a direct transmission of t. BNT 1 and BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u9	A counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 140 MPs voted: 68, against 42, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u10	It's a re-vote. [[Noise and lines on the right. Replies from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u11	Colleagues, you've finished your plenary day until you make your decision. Send a representative over there to stay... Here you go, Mr. Popov. [[Relations from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Did you want a re-vote? [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Make reference to the Rules, Mr. Atanasov, because only they have a proposal under art. 50, para. 3. If there were one from your group, the procedure... [[Relations from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] There is no reverse proposal when an agenda is formed. I was tactfully silent a moment ago, but you insist that I answer. We're listening, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure, and I even suggest that the cameras of BTV and Thank you. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u13	In the second part, the request is inadmissible. I accept a re-voting on the grounds and order adopted in the Rules of Procedure. We vote, fellow Members. The good news is that August is coming to a good time to read our Rules again. Vote 157 MPs: for 72, against 58, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for the first procedure to put to the vote in the Chamber Mr. Dimitar Radev to be admitted the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Mr. Dimitar Kostov, Mr. Kalin Hristov and Mrs. Nina Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u15	We are voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 145 MPs: 130, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Ms. Stoyanova, according to Section IV of our decision, t. 2 The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u16	Thank you, Madam President. The report is written. 25 pages, and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. I'll only read a summary from him: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Presentation and Hearing of Dimitar Ivanov Kostov, a candidate for a sub-manager, a head of management, a bank supervisor, Nina Ivanova Stoyanova, a candidate for a sub-manager of the Bulgarian National Bank, and Kalin Dimitrov Hristov. At an open session held on 23 July 2015 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of candidates for undergraduators of the Bulgarian National Bank, proposed by Mr. Dimitar Radev, Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, on the basis of art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The hearing was held in accordance with Section III of the rules of procedure adopted on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a sub-government, Head of Management, Head of Management, Chairman of the Bulgarian National Bank, Candidates for Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Public Disclosure of Documents, Presentation and Hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, pointed out that the documents presented by the three candidates - Dimitar Kostov, Nina Stoyanova and Kalin Hristov - meet the requirements of the Bulgarian National Bank Act for the occupation of the Bulgarian National Bank and should be admitted to a hearing. Mr. Dimitar Kostov's candidacy for a sub-governeur, Head of Management, was presented by Mr. Dimitar Radev. Before presenting his candidacy, Mr. Radev stressed that when choosing a team of undergraduators of the Bulgarian National Bank was led by the professional, expert and moral qualities of each of the candidates. In Mr. Kostov's presentation Mr. Radev pointed out that he is a very respected professional who is well known both to the banking community in the country and to colleagues from the European system of central banks and institutions in the Group of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where he is an alternative governor for Bulgaria. In addition, Mr. Kostov has a very high qualification in banking. His excellent management communication skills allow the successful realization of many projects of the Bulgarian National Bank and the banking community in the management of the Bank. After the presentation of the application went on to the personal presentation of Mr. Kostov and the presentation of his concept of his activities as a sub-governeur "Bankov supervision" of the Bulgarian National Bank. At the beginning of his exhibition Mr. Kostov pointed out that he shared the views of Mr. Radev expressed in his concept of the development of the Bulgarian National Bank for the reform and development of the supervisory function of the Central Bank. First of all, as the main immediate task of management, he outlined a detailed report on the state of banking supervision and a comprehensive package of measures for its development. Secondly, according to Mr. Kostov, a clear policy and rules should be laid down regarding the imposition of corrective measures in the event of non-compliance with the recommendations to a bank and stronger actions in the case of systemic infringements. At the same time, conservative licensing policy must be maintained. Thirdly, with the adoption of the Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries, the priority task for both BNB and Managing Bank supervision is to build the necessary capacity for its implementation. Finally, last but not least, an immediate priority in the work of management is the organization and implementation of an independent review of the quality of bank assets and carrying out stress tests on the banking system. According to T. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova presented the questions received from the newspaper "Capital" to all candidates and, in particular, to Mr. Kostov, to whom he answered in detail. In the course of the hearing, a question was asked by MP Georgi Turnovalyski, namely that in the case of Corporate Commercial Bank serious amounts were transferred to accounts which is in his portfolio of management, and whether conclusions could not be drawn that something wrong was happening in this bank, to require more information, including the reports of the bank's verification. In response, Mr. Kostov specified that the management of the banking system manages the payment system that operates to ensure settlement between payment service providers. The payment system shows that some funds from one bank go to another. In this sense, in the framework of what is being observed and for which the management is responsible, it is not possible to conclude that there is something that confirms in any way specific journalistic investigations. Mr. Kalin Hristov's candidacy to be a sub-governeur of management was presented by Mr. Radev. At the beginning of the presentation Mr. Radev pointed out that the election of a sub-governeur 12, para. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian People Bank between 23 July and 23 August 2015, as the term of office of Mr. Hristov expires on 23 October 2015. During the presentation of Mr. Hristov Mr. Radev pointed out that he is a highly respected professional, well known in both the banking community in the country and colleagues from the European system of central banks, international financial institutions, investment banks and rating agencies. Mr. Radev pointed out that the management of the Bank of Bulgaria supports and implements the operations of the Currency Board and the current mandate of Mr. Hristov coincides with the period of global financial and economic crisis when international financial markets are volatile. During its management, a balance between security, liquidity and profitability is achieved through prudent investment in foreign reserves. At the beginning of his term of office, the assets of the management are worth BGN 23 billion 600 million, while at present they are worth more than BGN 38 billion. After the presentation of the application was moved to the personal presentation of Mr. Hristov and the presentation of his concept of his activities as a sub-governeur. At the beginning of his presentation Mr. Hristov clarified that his whole concept is based on the principles, objectives and tasks of the Bulgarian National Bank, presented by Mr. Radev during his hearing. The main functions and tasks of management are in the following main directions: maintenance and management of the operations of the Monetary Board: management of international currency reserves; issuance of banknotes and coins; maintenance of monetary circulation and implementation of analytical and research activities. A detailed presentation of each of these priority activities followed. In accordance with art. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova presented again the questions received from the newspaper "Capital" to all candidates and asked the questions asked in particular to Mr. Hristov. Regarding the general questions to all candidates Mr. Hristov pointed out that he fully agrees with the answers given by Mr. Kostov. On individual issues, he also gave detailed answers. During the hearing several questions were asked by the MP Rumen Gechev on the position of Mr. Hristov on 21 and 22 June 2014 for the introduction of a bank vacation in the country. A decision that could have severe consequences for the economy of the country: how he has reached this proven wrong position and what guarantees he will not participate in political schemes; whether the country should hurry in its accession to the Eurozone when countries such as Poland and the Czech Republic postpone this until 2020. The MPs Yordan Tsonev, Petar Chobanov and Mr. Petar Andronov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria, and Mr. Kostov, attended these meetings, strongly rejected Mr. Gechev's claims as false. They all united around the thesis that at the meeting of Prime Minister Oresharski were discussed and analyzed all possible options for exiting the tensions created in the banking system, including bank holidays. Mr. Hristov has exposed the two alternatives without choosing any of them so that those present can make their choice. As a result of the discussion, it was decided that the governors Kostov and Hristov will work on the scenario for the opening of the banks on Monday, providing them with the necessary liquid support by issuing a bond from the other commercial banks. To this end, the consent of the European Commission was urgently obtained, which was categorically against bank holidays. At the subsequent meeting with the President, all participants have gone with a ready decision that on Monday morning all banks open and will pay as much as necessary, as the liquid funds are available. In response to Mr. Gechev's questions Mr. Hristov detailed the events of that moment days and hours. Mrs. Nina Stoyanova's candidacy for the sub-government was presented by Mr. Dimitar Radev. At the beginning of Mrs. Stoyanova's presentation Mr. Radev noted that she is a very respected specialist, well known in banking circles. He worked at the Bulgarian National Bank from the very beginning of his work experience. She knows all the directions in her work. Since January 2007, she has been the main lawyer of the Bulgarian National Bank and is responsible for organizing the overall process of legal activity in the central bank by maintaining daily communications with all its units. Ms. Stoyanova has considerable experience in the field of European law and working with the European institutions. She pointed out her commitment to the Legal Services Directorate at the European Central Bank, her participation in the preparation and coordination of all consultations since 2007 with the European Central Bank on draft national legal acts. She has well known the legal framework of the European Union in the financial sector by participating in the introduction of all European directives in the financial area since Bulgaria's preparation for membership in the European Union. After the presentation of the application was moved to the personal presentation of Mrs. Stoyanova and the presentation of her concept of her activities as a sub-governeur "Bankovo" of the Bulgarian National Bank. In her exhibition Mrs. Stoyanova outlined several main directions and activities in the management of the Bank of Bulgaria, namely: payment services and payment systems, statistics, the activities as a fiscal agent of the state and the activities of the Central Credit Register. Later Mrs. Stoyanova answered in detail the questions from the newspaper "Capital." During the hearing no questions were asked by the MPs of Nina Stoyanova. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the three candidates meet the legal requirements for taking up the position of the Bulgarian National Bank. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates, as well as the qualifications they acquired in the relevant fields in the banking sphere, are positive prerequisites for the implementation of competent and responsible management of the Bulgarian National Bank. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed drafts for the selection of Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as a sub-manager On the basis of a resignation to the National Assembly, by letter No 507/21 of 15 July 20115, by Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as a sub-governant, Head of the Government of the Bulgarian National Bank, in connection with a decision made on the basis of art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank a proposal from the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for his election as a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank, the Committee on Budget and Finance, proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision for the release of Dimitar Ivanov Kostov from the position of the sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, in accordance with the procedural decision in Section IV "Selection of candidates for sub-governments', after the summary of the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, candidates shall be submitted by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank within two minutes for each of them, debates shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure, after which there will be a clear vote through the system. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The governor of the Bulgarian National Bank is expected to present each of the candidates within two minutes for each of the applications. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with art. 12, para. 2 of the Law... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u19	Excuse me, Mr. Radev. Colleagues, I ask you very much that those in this courtroom take their seats. It's disrespectful for half the room to stand. Go ahead, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u20	In accordance with art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly elects the leaders of the main governments in BNB, on a proposal from the governor. In fulfilling the requirement of the Law, I proposed three candidates who were presented and heard during the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance on 23 July 2015. Allow me today to present to your attention the proposals for BNB governors in the plenary of the National Assembly. As you know, the performance of the functions and tasks of the BNB is carried out in three main departments of the BNB. The activities of these three governments are extremely complex and complex. Vice-Presidents take high-professional decisions every day and have a significant responsibility in the area of the powers they have in the respective portfolios. As I have also emphasised to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the leading criterion for my choice was the professional and moral qualities of the three candidates. They are well prepared and have the will to work for the practical realization of the concept of management and development of BNB, with which I was elected by you as governor, with a key task is the reforming and strengthening of banking supervision. Each candidate is an excellent expert with impeccable reputation. Their great comparative advantages consist in the excellent knowledge of management and operational processes in the Central Bank, as well as the experience gained in the management of many successful activities and projects in BNB. The three candidates are professionals and individuals who can be evaluated according to what they have done so far. Their election will ensure predictability in the actions of BNB in some of the key and successfully implemented functions of the Central Bank. This means that the choice of such a leadership of BNB will give the necessary signal of continuity in terms of maintaining financial stability in the country. Let me now move on to a brief presentation of the three candidates. First, the proposal for Mr. Dimitar Kostov. The choice of Head of the Board of Directors will be key to both the activities of the Central Bank and in general for macroeconomic and financial stability in the country. Restoration of reputation and trust in BNB is impossible without an appropriate choice of this position. I believe that Mr. Dimitar Kostov meets all the professional and moral criteria and has the qualities needed to take on the enormous responsibility and deal with the high expectations for the activities of banking supervision. Mr. Kostov is a very respected professional, well known to the banking community in the country, colleagues from the European system of central banks and institutions from the Group of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where he is an alternative governor for Bulgaria. Mr. Kostov is among the most qualified banking specialists in Bulgaria and has excellent management and communication skills in parallel. The following examples of successful projects under his leadership are indicative. Firstly, the merger of the two payment system operators BORICA and Bank service led to the establishment of a new strong company with serious capacity to work on the increasingly competitive European market. Secondly, the connection of the Bulgarian banking system to the Eurozone in the implementation of payment services by including in TARGET2 and building the retail payment system in euro in the territory of the country, the so-called "Bisterra 7". Thirdly, the successful implementation of a new banking accounting system, which aligned the practice of the Bulgarian National Bank to the leading central banks in the Eurozone. Fourth, the establishment of a conservative licensing and supervision policy for payment institutions and payment systems. Mr. Kostov makes a leading contribution to the modernisation of payment systems in Bulgaria, their integration into the European payment infrastructure and Bulgaria's already practical readiness, in terms of the payment system for joining the Eurozone. Mr. Kostov has a unique comparative advantage for the position of Head of Banking Supervision. As of mid-June 2014, he has been operationally monitoring, monitoring and coordinating the activities of the Banking Supervision Department. Thus, he has already passed a type of test period, gaining practically valuable experience while having to deal with difficult situations. The conclusion is that Mr. Kostov knows perfectly well the work of the banking supervision and without having to do with its management and decisions made there before June 2014. The second proposal is for Mr. Kalin Hristov. The choice of a vice-governor, head of the management, Emisonnos, is the most direct related to the maintenance of financial and macroeconomic stability in Bulgaria. You know that this management of the Bulgarian National Bank actually supports and implements the operations of the currency board. On 23 October 2015 the term of office of Mr. Kalin Hristov, Governor of BNB, Head of the Management Department of Emisonno. In accordance with art. 12, para. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, the election of the head of this government should be carried out in the period 23 July 23 August 2015. I propose Mr. Kalin Hristov's candidacy for a new mandate, headed by the Board of Directors, because of his undisputed professional qualities and proven successful experience precisely of this high responsible position. Mr. Hristov is a highly respected professional known among the banking community in the country, colleagues from the European system of central banks, international financial institutions, investment banks and rating agencies. He has managed professionally, wisely and effectively the management of gross international foreign exchange reserves, as well as the organisation and management of available monetary circulation in the country. He has extensive experience in working with the European and international institutions, has successfully defended the interests of the Bulgarian National Bank and Bulgaria as an alternative governor in the General Council of the European Central Bank, member of the General Council of the European Systemic Risk Board and member of the Economic and Financial Committee of the Council of the European Union. Mr. Hristov has proven his qualities by prudently managing the foreign exchange reserves during the difficult period of the global financial and economic crisis, achieving a difficult balance between security and liquidity, and profitability. The management of the reserves followed strictly the conservative mandate set by the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, but along with this led to their historical increase. On 23 October 2009 Kalin Hristov started his first working day as a sub-government and head of the management with assets of the management of the company Emizionno. 600 million. BGN, while today it amounts to 38 billion. lv. The third proposal is for Ms. Nina Stoyanova. In relation to the proposal made by me, the former governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, who is responsible for the management of the Bank of Bulgaria, Dimitar Kostov, to be elected as the sub-manager of the Board of Directors, the Bank's supervision, as well as the request for dismissal of the new position, it is necessary to elect a sub-governeur who is responsible for the management of the branch of the Bank of Bulgaria. Ms. Stoyanova has been the main lawyer of the Bulgarian National Bank since 2007. In this position she is responsible for organizing the overall process of legal activity for BNB and working daily with all units in the bank. Ms. Stoyanova knows very well all directions in the activities of the Central Bank and because of the fact that she has been working at BNB since the beginning of her work experience and has great experience from different stages in the development of BNB. Mrs. Stoyanova is a highly respected specialist, well known in banking circles. She has specialized in the European Central Bank Legal Services Directorate and is a member of the legal committee of the European System of Central Banks since 2007. She also knows in depth the legal framework of the European Union in the financial sector and has extensive experience in working with the European institutions. Ms. Stoyanova took part in the introduction of all European directives in the financial area during Bulgaria's preparation for EU membership. Since 2007, she has been involved in consultations with the European Central Bank on draft national legal acts. In BNB, she is responsible for reviewing the legal part of the convergence reports of the European Central Bank and the European Commission. In support of Mrs. Stoyanova's bid for a sub-governor, I would like to highlight her long-standing experience with this management. Firstly, participation in the development of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems on the entire relevant sub-legal base. Secondly, experience with cases related to the licensing and supervision of payment institutions, payment systems and electronic money companies. Third, very good knowledge of the main activities related to the functioning and operation of the real-time gross settlement system and the national Target component 2. Fourth, working with management and fiscal services in connection with the function of BNB as fiscal agent and depositary of the state. Fifth, working with the Department of Central Credit Registry in the Department. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In view of the above and on the basis of art. 12, para. 2 of the BNB Act I propose: 1. Mr. Dimitar Ivanov Kostov's candidacy as BNB's sub-governor, head of management, Bank supervision. 2. Mr. Kalin Dimitrov Hristov's candidacy for BNB's sub-governeur. 3. Ms. Nina Ivanova Stoyanova's candidacy as BNB's sub-governor and Head of the Bank of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. Radev. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! I am empowered to state the following, bearing in mind the protocol that is from the Budget Committee. I will make a brief and general statement. I would like to inform you that BSP left Bulgaria remains firmly its position since the summer of 2014 and it has not changed, namely that the entire Board of Directors of BNB is responsible for what happened with KTB. We have not changed our positions with strong arguments that we are talking about direct losses of at least 4 billion. BGN, which were illegally distributed in the form of false credits and also for many more billions of direct and indirect effects on the Bulgarian economy and that we and our heirs will have to pay for the fact that the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria was committed to huge, hundreds of millions, billions of levs, which should go to solve this problem with KTB, which was very close to blowing up Bulgaria's banking system. But in order not to be naked, I will tell you that the position of BSP left Bulgaria is strongly supported and supported at least until recently by almost all political forces and this position was categorically confirmed by the conclusions in the official report of the Temporary Committee, which worked on KTB. Quoting page 140: The BNB considers that it has not effectively performed its supervisory and control functions against CCB. Hundreds of millions of BGN credits are granted by CCB to companies with fictitious or zero business activities with missing real guarantees for the loans received, multiple borrowers registered at the same address, companies passing on on the same day received loans for millions of euros to other companies and individuals. The Commission did not receive a satisfactory explanation from the representatives of BNB why they did not react to a number of other very unusual facts for normal banking practice such as: phenomenal growth of CCB assets Finally: Until the placing of CCB under special supervision the BNB has not responded adequately to any of the numerous violations. Honourable Members, these are the findings of the committees under which we have signed absolutely all the representatives of Parliament! In addition, from the end of June and July until the end of 2014 the position for the resignation of the entire Board of Directors of BNB was strongly supported and required by all leading politicians of the ruling majority of Party GERB. On 13 July 2014 in an interview for Darik Radio and Mr. Borisov said: "It was necessary for the entire Board of Directors of BNB to throw their resignation and on Monday to replace with new people to go and pull out and to say why this was admitted. On 13 July Mr. Borisov: Ivan Iskrov came out and with all his insolence he said: politicians are on the move. Why should we be on the move? When you were taking the big salaries, were we on the move? " - Even further on Mr. Borisov wants and I think it goes too far, arrests of these people. On July 15 Mr. Borisov: They suffer from lack of reputation [[this is about the members of the Governing Council]] . Whatever they say, I can't trust them. The first thing to do is to resign them as the first item on the National Assembly's agenda. I have also told Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. On 8 November 2014, Parliament Speaker Ms. Tsacheva requested the resignation of the entire Board of Governors on the week of Darik Radio. The same is done by the Chairman of the Budget Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova on 18 November 2014. The same is done by Mr. Dobrev on 19 November 2014. The same is done on 18 October 2014 all social partners: CNB, And here comes the question: what has happened to these definite positions that last almost a year and are now changing? The question arises: who rules the country? Who has the power to change these firm positions of leading politicians from the ruling coalition? The question "Who" must be answered. Otherwise, we're in a weird situation. And we don't fall. We've maintained our position since last year. Then regarding the second problem for the bank vacation, which is even heavier. Dear colleagues, at the meeting with Prime Minister Oresharski, informally, on Saturday and Sunday, the Governing Council of BNB proposed a major, leading alternative to a bank vacation. This should be in the audio recordings and transcripts of these meetings and it was confirmed in interviews and speeches on TV and radio right after those meetings that were with Mr. Oresharski and BNB on this Sunday at the end of June. In addition, you have listened to the words of two other leading bankers and the Chairman of the Association of Commercial Banks at the time Mr. Hampartzoumian. In Nova TV's morning block on December 4, 2014, the Chairman of the Association, who was at the meeting in BNB, said: "The idea of a bank vacation was like firing artillery shells at sparrows. " Then, as a representative of the BSP, I was empowered to say at the meeting that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is strongly against the alternative of a bank vacation. We have made economic and political arguments. Economicly, with concrete facts about what severe consequences will have for the Bulgarian economy. Mr Hampartzoumian himself in this interview says that the introduction of a bank guarantee would have brought Bulgaria back 15 years. After our firm opinion that there will be no extraordinary meeting of parliament that Sunday afternoon, because, honourable Members, without a decision of the parliament, there is no way to introduce a bank vacation? It was introduced very rarely in world history, once with the decree of the President of the United States in the Great Depression, recently with the decision of the President and Parliament of Cyprus, there should be a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. But without the convening of parliament extraordinary Sunday by Parliament Speaker Mr. Mihail Mikov, this could not have happened. Therefore, after hearing these strange arguments at 9:00 a.m. at the Bank, I strongly stated on behalf of the BSP that we do not support bank holidays. We are categorically against the bank guarantee, we will not convene a parliament meeting, and after my speech there were statements by Mr. Hampartzoumian and Mr. Gavriyski. By the way, Mr. Gavriyski, former head of BNB, said he would go to all the media by the end of the day if someone allowed themselves to accept this catastrophic decision for a bank vacation in the Republic of Bulgaria. So on the basis of what I share with you as a personal participant in these talks, as a witness to what happened last year until now, once again I express the position of BSP left Bulgaria that in principle we do not comment on anything personally, we firmly stand on the position that the leadership of BNB and the entire Board of Directors should be renewed because of the severe economic losses and dangers in which the Bulgarian banking system was introduced. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Emil Dimitrov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I will also quote prominent classics and authority in the field for all that they have said in the past year, as you know how difficult and tense it has been, and with what sudden twists. I will quote the current Prime Minister Boyko Borisov: The winter is very difficult, the problems in front of the state are extremely severe. The manager and the governors should be replaced tomorrow; The entire Board of Directors of BNB should be gone. They have been idle for four months now. Other post: "GERB" is waiting for resignations from the entire management of BNB. Ms. Tsacheva explained that the change of the management of BNB will not affect only the governor, but all other members of the Governing Council. Are we going to vote today, or are we going to vote reassignment?? Menda Stoyanova: Menda Stoyanova requested the resignations of the Board of Directors of BNB. She stressed that the law protects the independence of the Central Bank and resignations cannot be requested from the plenary, but the entire Board of Governors must take responsibility. Resignation is not required, but, as I can see, a new mandate is being given out. Boyko Borisov: The entire Board of Directors of BNB should have resigned and on Monday should be replaced with new people to go and take out and say why this was admitted. Apparently, he didn't trust the old leadership to do it, so he wanted a new one. One Iskrov comes out and scolds MPs in parliament. How are you going to fight with the MPs if you want them to give you $5 billion? lv. From the taxpayers? - We have already given them! To take them and give them to you for sleeping. Are they awake yet? The entire Governing Council of BNB should resign, GERB leader Boyko Borisov told journalists. When you were taking the big paychecks, were we on the move? The Prime Minister was taking £3,200, and they were taking £30,000. lv. a month. From where to where? Who are those who are being rewarded today? GERB leader Boyko Borisov asked the entire Governing Council of BNB to resign to be voted on tomorrow: They suffer from lack of reputation. Whatever they say, I can't trust them. I can't allow them to go out and talk, and they'll suggest for days that someone with bags brings money, and at the same time the Attorney General will come out afterwards to make lipstick, the man, and to explain that there was no such thing. I mean, these people didn't have a reputation until yesterday, and whatever they said, they didn't believe it, they should have resigned right away. But they already have a reputation, we trust them now. Even so we could choose the governor, the fundamental rights of the MPs have been violated. Are these people part of the problem, or are they part of the solution to the problem? It turns out that BNB under the leadership of Ivan Iskrov is the most criminal and disgraceful, but without Iskrov is the most expert. Which one and the truth? [[Applause from PF.]] What happened? We brought a new governor from abroad, who had a very important quality, unassigned and unrelated. And since he's not burdened and unconnected, it turns out that his only quality is that he's ready to accept the team that was assigned to him by those who admitted KTB. I imagine what would happen if he were burdened?! [[Laughter and applause from PF.]] His only quality is that he's willing to accept any team. What happened that year? Someone returned the money? Because a lot of people have lost their money and are waiting to get it back. The guaranteed yes, and the others? They have earned every lev of what was in the Bank and their unity of offenses is that they have signed a contract with the Bank and were hoping for interest, as with each one of them is happening at the moment. That doesn't make them criminals. There are three groups of people who are involved in understanding what the truth is and what happened. One is the Bulgarian National Bank through the branch of Bank supervision. As you can see, these people will be rewarded. The second is the auditors, who have defended the public interest and have gone, and have said that the undertaking is active, that the institution is working and that there is no problem. Maybe that's how it was. Then why did the bankruptcy happen? It's possible it was a pyramid. Why didn't they see him? But the only punishment for these people is to give them $2,000 each. fine and keep working. If you are the director of any firm declared bankrupt, manager, you have no right to take office for a certain period of time. If you're a manager of a commercial bank, a board member, a director, you have no right to borrow. If you're an auditor who said the bankrupt bank works, there's no problem with that, and your license stands, and you don't have a ticket. That's it now. Managers are clear. The third group of people. They will stay in Bulgaria and take the money. And now we, instead of taking responsibility, are gathered here today to give out prizes. Why? Is it because we've made our children pay the debt? Find someone to pay the debt and from there we don't care. We're relieved that people have forgotten that everything else is in the past. The situation to date is as follows. We have nothing against these people as experts if they worked as managers of commercial banks. They have their experience and their capabilities, but they have compromised themselves as a team, which, in times of crisis, what happened to KTB, realized the problem, they could not act adequately. Where's the guarantee that they'll act properly from tomorrow? The money's gone, and there's no guilt. To date, there is no guilt. We've got awards. Or from now on, the whole term will run under the motto: it has been, from now on, the same again. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]] I would like to tell you that I am empowered by my parliamentary group, for which I thank them, to say that we are not taking part in the vote and we will not legitimize the Board of Directors, who has already compromised himself, who has compromised himself in the eyes of the current President of the National Assembly, you heard earlier; who has compromised himself before the current Prime Minister Borisov, you heard him and he said that he has no confidence in these people and whatever they say will not trust them. But something has happened.. some dark backstage, some arrangement, someone has slept one night and the next day has decided that his opinion is different, that someone has returned the money, that he already has the blame and that these are the best people who have to stay and continue to rule. We do not believe that we should participate in this common singing, in this common choir. If someone had a coffee somewhere and made a deal, we weren't there. We can't and don't agree with who to appoint, who to appoint, who to determine guilty or innocent, who to say, the people will pay, our children will be in debt, but who to say and that there will be no guilty and who to point out that the old Board of Directors should stay back to work in this way. Let these people be realized in the banking sector, they are truly proven specialists. One of them was my minister, and I worked for him. But in this way, after all that has happened, how are we going to go out and explain each one of you to your constituents because the people who had money in the Bank are not divided into white, blue and red or one party or another? These are people who hoped that the state with its institutions guards their money in banks. And now that they've found out they're gone, they're about to find out that there's not only no guilty but there's gonna be a reward. Because it's the truth about KTB so far there's no guilt, there's a reward and there's no responsibility whatsoever! As well as a complete change of opinion from then opposition party GERB and today ruling. So take your own risk. Choose, hide behind whatever slogans you want, but tomorrow explain to the people who lost their money that you helped not to be guilty, but only to be rewarded! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Simeonov, you are absolutely right. Unfortunately, however, the majority in charge says: "This is how you sleep in the bank's bankruptcy, you are rewarded! It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. However, my reply to you is in another direction: do not leave the room and miss the vote. Stay here and as we do, vote against. This is the clear and clear position. Do not help in this way with the quorum of those who will choose the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u27	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows me Emil Dimitrov, it's normal, it's okay. I would like to say that the decision that I have announced is not my own decision, but a decision of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. After everything that has happened, to seize our rights and to prove that the independent MP is a MP who can nominate, and the people's representative who is a member of a parliamentary group can't, but only the group could, that is to say, we raped the Constitution, and now we want to vote a new one because of the new one we will believe; when it turns out that 84 people from GERB are equal to an independent MP, it was clear that you would do everything possible to push the person you brought from the other side of the world just because he agreed to keep the current status quo, regardless of what words it is hidden behind. We will not leave the Chamber, we will stay and vote against it, because we have not voted for the Governor, we will not vote for his team either. Thank you. [[Applause from RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u29	For the next speech, the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov. After him "Metodi Andreev."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Personally, this is the second time this has happened to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u31	What about Peevsky?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u32	When Ivan Iskrov was elected for a second term, only us from the Blue Coalition who stood over there [[sighs right]] We rose up, warned and said the following thing: that in the medium and long term with the re-election of Ivan Iskrov the stability of the banking system is put at risk. Then everyone else got together, voted their candidacy, hugged each other and said: "Ama, you are nagging, there is nothing significant. " Turns out we were right. Today we are in the same situation again, I would say, déjà vu, only after the severe bankruptcy of KTB. So I ask all colleagues to listen to me, especially you, Mr. Dimitar Radev. You've heard several speeches from this tribune. Do you think this is a good start for the new governor of BNB?! Do you think that with the applications that you presented as undergraduates, you gain public trust? Do you think that after the crisis with KTB you are now stabilizing the Bulgarian National Bank after everything that happened? Even after all, two parties, because when I look at how things are turning out, GERB and DPS will probably support your sub-government applications, but do you think this is enough as public trust to increase the authority of the Bulgarian National Bank? I am telling you this as a person, Mr. Radev, who voted for you, not only myself, the entire parliamentary group, until the last person, precisely because we wanted a person who came from outside and was not involved in all the problems and scandals that have happened in Bulgaria in recent years, especially the scandal with Corporate Commercial Bank. Mr. Radev, with these applications and especially the one that worries us the most about Dimitar Kosov's candidacy, you do not achieve the effect of stabilizing the Bulgarian National Bank, but on the contrary you risk the tensions and problems to continue. You're in danger of self-absorbed. I begin my speech with direct advice to you. Listening to the speeches so far, which have been very argued, withdraw these applications, especially Dimitar Kostov's, withdraw it now.. take the floor, even if there is no such procedure, it does not matter, and offer other applications. Even the wisest person makes personnel mistakes that has shown the history of Bulgaria. However, it is better to correct yourself, Mr. Radev, than to prove tomorrow that you have failed to stabilize the Bulgarian National Bank, for which there is a huge public expectation and trust of thousands of Bulgarians. It is better to withdraw Dimitar Kostov's candidacy now than to risk destabilising the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u33	And Kalin Christov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u34	I want to say the following thing. Post-CCB led by the Bank's supervision had to stand someone with an undisputed authority, who never had any problem with a bank in his life. After the CCB led by the Bank's supervision, it had to be someone in whose life no problems with banks had. A man who is a symbol of stability! And you to offer us the finance minister of Jean Videnov, who will take over the.Bankov supervision of the most critical post in the country at the moment, we consider it a challenge to us, we consider it a candidacy that cannot be supported and for which we will vote strongly against. Absolutely against! As finance minister during Jean Videnov's term of office, more than 10 banks went bankrupt. [[BSP lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u35	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u36	More than 10 banks! Colleagues, more than 10 banks! And now, in this situation, when we are looking for stabilization of BNB, to propose this particular application, Mr. Radev, for us it is insulting, for us it does not symbolize stability. Dear colleagues from GERB, on this background I want to remind you what Prime Minister Borisov said. His comments were quoted here, but not the most important one was quoted. He said the following: "For the bankruptcy of KTB there is no responsibility not to bear the then Prime Minister Oresharski and the Finance Minister" said Prime Minister Borisov with regard to KTB. I would ask, then, if we carried this analogy, as follows. When 10 banks went bankrupt in Jean Videnov's time, could there not be any responsibility and the finance minister in the case of Dimitar Kostov?! In other words, following the model of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, can you say that in this case the responsibility does not bear the then Finance Minister Dimitar Kostov, when more than 10 banks went bankrupt - some kind of responsibility, following the model Borisov? My fellow Members, I would finally like to say the following. Mr. Radev, you have two options today. One option is to lower yourself and wait for what will happen. GERB and DPS clearly have the votes to be elected. Maybe someone else will join us. Here, in this National Assembly we have seen all kinds of work! The other position, seeing our doubts, our distrust, is to stand up and say that you will offer other applications. That's your strong move today. The downward position will not restore the authority of the BNB. The decision of the Parliamentary Group is not to support any of the applications you have submitted today. For us clear attention represents Dimitar Kostov's candidacy, which at any cost, under no conditions and in no situation can we support. [[BSP LB.]] Mr. Radev, today, if you want BNB strongly, stand up and withdraw your proposed application! [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Slavcho Atanasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You are wrong, Mr. Dimitrov, you are wrong. In your entire speech you address Mr. Radev and with reasonable arguments, of course, you explain that really what is being done today is at least ridiculous for the whole Bulgarian society. But you're wrong to address Mr. Radev. He will simply fulfill the will of two political forces who are here in this Parliament will obey their will. As a reasonable man, do you think it is appropriate for him to appoint compromised figures, thanks to which 3 billion disappeared from the Bulgarian state? 600 million. lv.? And here to convince us, the whole society that Ivan Iskrov is currently the sacrificial lamb and that he has taken all the sins of all this theft something like the style of a great Bulgarian: I am the only one there are no others! These things aren't serious. Just Mr. Radev at the moment, unfortunately, the head of the Bulgarian National Bank, is a curling iron in the hands of two political powers that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u39	Mr. Atanasov, a little more respect for the elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u40	I don't blame anyone personally, so I don't break the rules. I don't even mention the political forces. They don't even know who they are. The two political powers will soon legitimize this choice, which, believe me, is absurd! Instead of investigating these people, we are currently returning them to the Bulgarian National Bank on a white horse. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u41	Any other lines? Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you for more respect for the elected governor of the Bulgarian National Bank and the nominated candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u42	Does he respect us?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u43	Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I thank Mr. Atanasov for the line, with one important clarification. The elected governor of BNB has an undisputed mandate and if he does his job properly, there is, you know, the support of the ECB, so it is not up to anyone. He has complete freedom, if he sees that he has made a mistake, to correct it now and immediately. It does not need to depend on any political parties. So his choice can be corrected. That is why, and now I have called on him to listen to this debate, hearing the arguments, to make a choice. We need, above all, a manager of the.Bankov supervision department to be elected by all MPs or by a huge majority. Not to listen, Mr. Radev, so negative, and well-grounded opinions by colleagues! You need the best to stabilize the Bank, not to offer people for whom there are severe public doubts that you hear from all or most parliamentary groups so far. You mean you need people whose entire career is a symbol of trust! You're not doing this right now. And because you do not depend on anyone, you have exceptional independence of the Bulgarian National Bank, which is also supported by the European rules of the European Central Bank. You can afford anything. No one can tell you what to do! If you miss the moment today and let these people be elected by a minimal majority, you will make a very big mistake. Today you have a huge chance because, again I say, the wisest person makes mistakes, especially personnel, and the most experienced people make serious mistakes. But whoever is brave enough can get up and correct his mistake, withdraw the applications, especially Dimitar Kostov's, and propose another person. To offer people for whom there can be no doubt, in whose career there have been no problems with any banks; people who have saved banks and not failed banks in their mandate! Mr. Radev, take this chance today, don't give up and don't wait to see if there will still be any majority, with a few more votes to elect these candidates. This would mean very low support for the Bulgarian National Bank by the National Assembly. You don't need this! You've come with great confidence, you've been elected by a large majority, and your superiors will probably be chosen by the hair! Is that what you want? I call on all groups, including those who have given me a reply, to remain in this House and to vote, because leaving this House is a wrong decision, my fellow Members. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It will not show the ratio of real support for these applications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I strongly object to the lines you make to the House, replicating including those speaking from this tribune, because your work, your role is not in this. As for respect, we have respected the Governor of BNB by giving him all the votes that the group has when we chose him! And he, what the fuck? He's giving us back the status quo! And now here you're talking about some respect?! Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u47	I do not believe that it is a sign of good education for the manager of BNB to be called "Masha." If you think that's acceptable, I don't think so. Mr. Metodi Andreev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm addressing Mr. Radev. I voted for you, Mr. Radev, because you come from a world where trust in the banking system steps on the integrity and morality of those who govern it. You're an honorable man, Mr. Radev. At least from what I know about you, I can't say anything against you. This is the opinion of many people in this House, and then we expressed it by voting for you. However, in our country, this is not how it is, Mr. Radev, as it is where you come from. In Bulgaria there is a severe deficit of trust, a severe deficit of integrity, which is why our whole country is in this state in which we now see it. We all know, even I, who am not a bank specialist, that in fact the most serious capital of any banking system, its foundation is trust in the banking system, because there is not a single bank, and the most powerful one, which, if not trusting, will withstand the pressure of the employees. What are we doing right now? We tell our employees, our citizens that what happened during the management of the previous Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank was good. Why okay? Because we reaffirm that decision that was made many, many years ago! At that time, it is likely that in this Chamber again the professional qualities of the people who are now being offered to us were highlighted. Unlike Martin Dimitrov, I will not separate them. All three of them, I suppose, are good, wonderful professionals! But those of you who are auditors and who understand audit reports must remember a very specific professional term. Unfortunately, fellow Members, in our entire society there is exceptional skepticism towards the work of the entire Board of Directors under the leadership of Ivan Iskrov! I don't give them away to Dimitar Kostov, Kalin Hristov and so on. After all, the trust that we are offering at the moment, by voting, is not what people have expected of us. I have to rephrase a very wise thought said many years ago by this tribune by a member of the then BSP acad. Goodness Sandov. When deciding what to do then MPs at the dawn of democracy, or rather at the border between dictatorship and democracy, Akad. Sendov said the following thought: "All of us have sinned, and all of us have become redundant together! " I will rephrase that thought slightly, because you gentlemen of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank, all of you have sinned together and all of you have become redundant. [[Applause from RB]] , regardless of your professional qualities as bankers. My doubt, as a Bulgarian employee and Bulgarian citizen, remains! Mr. Radev, I have given my trust to you with the conviction that I give my trust to a pragmatic man, a man with his own vision! You must express your position, because indeed this Parliament must unite to this choice! If we don't do it today, tomorrow people will blame us for not being decent enough for them! Let's see what happened yesterday. It became what no one expected to become.. 570 thousand. The signature went like this in history because of the different views of the political forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u49	You're off topic, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u50	Today we have the danger of getting the same. People's expectations are different, and I think we should justify them. I'm finally going to say this. It doesn't matter, Mr. Radev, it doesn't matter at all, because in your team you offer one person - I can't help but say it, who was the finance minister of Jean Videnov! Then our country was incinerated, our country destroyed, it was over! The difference between Mr. Dimitar Kostov and Mr. Chobanov is only one "that Mr. Chobanov once in his career allowed, during his reign, to fail a bank while Mr. Kostov has allowed many times in his government to fail banks! Let me tell you something very interesting. I don't know if you know this, the Head of Supervision in the Bulgarian National Bank is one of the main factors that will be particularly important in the sale of banks working in Bulgaria! In neighbouring Greece, there is a severe crisis. No wonder the Greek branches in the Bulgarian banks decided to be sold to return the huge money that the Greek state owes to the creditors. It is Mr. Dimitar Kostov who will be the main authority to determine who will be the buyer of these Bulgarian banks, these branches! It doesn't matter, it's not random! I therefore ask you to be honest with your constituents and let us prove by today's decision that this Parliament can indeed unite around causes! If we do not do this today, Parliament will become more and more like a rubber ball, which takes the shape of the hand that holds it! [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u51	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u52	As we have already said once, I will only repeat that the failure of KTB is not only a failure of the Bulgarian National Bank, the failure of the entire banking system and all who are in it, from the high floor, are guilty and responsible for this, including Mr. Hampartzoumian, who was mentioned. I wanted something else to replicate the pre-talker. When you talk about Mr. Kostov, why don't you remember when you voted for Mr. Radev that in Jean Videnov's government he was Deputy Minister of Finance of Mr. Kostov? Why did you choose him? [[Applause by "Attacka."]] Why did you vote? You're principled, aren't you? [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u53	Mr. Zablyanov, come on in. You're quitting. Mr. Bayraktarov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Andreev, you and I and some of our fellow Members here were at an interesting hearing on the Anti-Corruption Commission. Do you remember? It's a pity I can't tell you what this is about, because you know that the transcript, the protocol is classified. From this interesting hearing, you know very well that some of those proposed for subservients were very serious in some events related to KTB. Is that right? Except you're talking about trust today, and you should know that the biggest scourge of any banking system is mistrust. I didn't vote for Mr. Radev, and when he was introduced, I only asked him two questions. Is there a team? The answer was: "It is being discussed." You never know what to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u55	Mr. Bajraktarov, what is your line to the MP Metodi Andreyev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u56	My line is to you, Mr. Andreev: do you support these proposals or do you not support them? Because otherwise your whole statement is just a PR, that's all. I'm sorry to have to tell you this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Metodiev, it may seem to you that my line is not on the subject, but it is on your speech. Don't blame Jean Videnov's government for the collapse of the banks! Jean Videnov's government is the same victim of a coup, organized by Sorosoid organizations [[Elevator bell dings]] So that the state can then be plundered by you, and that's the truth! [[Applause from BSP LB. Replies from GERB.]] And don't blame a prime minister who, unlike all the others who then became, has no foundation, no personal life that is rich, no palaces and no daughters to study abroad! It was a coup d'état and you know it very well because you were co-organizers in it! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u59	Mr. Andreev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u60	First of all, professor's hole. Stanilov. Mr. Professor, this was Mr. Radev's deputy minister at the time of Mr. Kostov, but then he became Deputy Minister during the administration of the other Mr. Kostov. It is not a problem that he was Deputy Minister of the team of the Dimitar Kostov in question. There are many such deputy ministers who are now again deputy ministers. This only confirms that as a basic base this person deserves trust. The problem is why he's bent now, why he's offering these people, for that is what Mr. Bayraktarov asked me, I'm not voting! I'm telling you, I'm not voting for this team that Mr. Radev is proposing! I'll vote against it! As for what Mr. Ermenkov said. Mr. Ermenkov, at the time to which you are returning the MPs, Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank was the agent of State Security Todor Valchev! Then, Mr. Ermenkov, your financial position was Multigroup! Let's remember where it came from! One of the alternates of the "Multigroup" is probably still your member, the famous Dimitar Ivanov, known in society as the Gestapo! Whose are these people, members of what? It has been seen that the Multigroup was 100% part of the State Security! It's your policy, it's 25 years, it's your policy! Not us, the right, we robbed the country! Look who the oligarchs are! Who is your chairman in Plovdiv, who is the head of BSP in Plovdiv?! Georgi Gergov. What more can I tell you? [[Replications from the MPs Dimitar Gorov and Valeri Zablyanov. Applause by RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u61	Mr. Nastimir Ananiev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! In each shareholder company, the board of directors shall be liable and, when it is bankrupt, it shall not hold the same position for up to five years. Then why does the board of BNB, which has been proposed to us again, have no responsibility at all? We're actually changing the hat, not the head, the hat just changing and leaving the whole body that will do the same thing. He has a direct responsibility, he has an indirect responsibility, he has a moral responsibility. Everyone can recognize this board which of the three should take over, but I am surprised that Mr. Radev did not fill the family album with two more suggestions. supposed that of Tsvetan Gunev and Tsvetan Vassilev. Then the family photo would have been completely completed and we just had to re-elect the exact same situation and wait for KTB-2 to happen again. I will personally call on colleagues from GERB not to support this team. I think there are many capable bankers in Bulgaria who can do a good job and who have an impeccable reputation. We can't support this team. These proposals must be withdrawn, and I hope, above all, that colleagues from the entire coalition majority, but not only will not support this proposal for the undergraduators, but Mr. Radev, if he can withdraw them, will withdraw them if he does not, if he does not propose a new, better team. And just one more comment. Last week I think she was, at the hearing Mrs. Stoyanova said she supports the missions that happened to be dissolved. She's still a chief lawyer, and she was at the time of the sessions. Why didn't she come out with this view that it was wrong to do these things and shouldn't have happened? So I think the whole team is responsible and we have to choose new people who have an impeccable reputation. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u63	Any lines to Mr. Ananiev? Here you go, Mr. Popov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u64	Thank you, Madam President. You are right, Commissioner Ananiev, but I did not hear the motives in your speech: why is the old leadership of BNB being offered? Because I think one is the main motive. If you have someone else and you're counting on someone else, please share it. The main motive is to obscure the common irresponsibility, to protect the interests of those who are currently proposing them and will support them here in the vote. I don't see any other motives. If you can see, please come and say them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u65	Thank you. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u66	Dear Mr. Popov, I do not know why this team was proposed and you know the position of the Reformation Block, which was stated before Mr. Radev's election. She was very clear. We wanted each of the candidates, not only Mr. Radev, to state in advance his team with whom he will work. We supported him with confidence. Thirty minutes later, this confidence was passed on because a team was offered responsibility, regardless of what I said, directly, indirectly or morally, but was responsible for what happened to KTB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u67	Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u68	Madam President, honourable Members. I am making a statement, but I would ask that it be accepted by the gentlemen Radev, Kostov and Hristov as questions I ask to them and if they wish to be able to take part, all the more so that these questions were put in one way or another during the hearing and the election of Mr. Radev as the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. With great surprise I found, as perhaps you did, that in the Bulgarian National Bank Act adopted by this Parliament we, as the principal of the Bulgarian National Bank, have voted on texts that give exclusive rights to the Governing Council, to the governor and to the governors and, most importantly, the manager and the governors do not work under the Labour Code. What do I mean? I mean, in art. 12, para. 8, which I will propose, I have already proposed to change, this article reads as follows and I will ask Mr. Radev, if he wishes to comment on it: the relations between the Bulgarian National Bank and the governor and the governors are governed by management contracts, which are concluded by order defined by the Governing Council. And I immediately make my comment, and it is the following to date that the requests between BNB and the governor and the governors arise, on the one hand, on the basis of the election of the National Assembly and are regulated by management contracts. In this regard, the management contracts, we all know very well, are a tool for regulating relationships arising on the basis of the Commercial Law. However, the BNB is not a commercial company, nor a credit institution, and therefore its status is governed by a special law adopted in this Chamber, so I proposed to art. 12 to be created, Mr. Radev, a new para. 8, which reads and I would be interested to hear if you wish, your comment on whether you are taking such a treatise. The new paragraph, which I propose, I quote: the governor, the governors and members of the Board of Directors of BNB are appointed on the basis of a selection by the National Assembly according to the order (this is the new), the Labour Code. Period. The amount of their wage is determined by the Governing Council. In this way I make a clamp that preserves the autonomy of BNB, and I continue the quote.. but the same wage cannot be higher than the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly. I am also very important to propose to change, as you have not so far declared, Mr. Iskrov and the other governors who are here in the Chamber have not declared their salaries in the Court of Auditors, I propose that the following sentence should be added in art. 12: The governor, the governors and the members of the Governing Council shall declare their salaries and all bonuses of three months and six months in the Court of Auditors. Here it will be very interesting to hear your opinion, your assessment, your consent or possibly your disagreement and what are the reasons and arguments for any such disagreement. Finally, I will say that the salaries in BNB are not publicly known and salaries in the National Assembly, salaries in the executive power are publicly known. It seems to me that this is not normal, it is not equal, and this must come to light. I think you should support such an opinion. Moreover, Mr. Radev worked in a world institution, which we all know is that its manager and the government have publicly known salaries, including bonuses. And here I will give a comparison, which is very important that the formation of salaries in BNB, honourable colleagues, is quite different from other state institutions. For comparison, I am telling you how salaries are formed in the Financial Supervision Commission, also elected by all of us. If you do not know, let me remind you that these salaries are formed there as the President of the Financial Supervision Commission receives a monthly remuneration equivalent to 90% of the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly. As far as I am aware, colleagues on the right side of Mr. Martin Dimitrov appeared yesterday, today the press reports that they intend to propose a bill with which the salary of the chief of BNB will be 90% of the salary of the chief of parliament. These are my motives, which I am currently presenting as a proposal for amendments to the Bulgarian National Bank Act, and I very much hope that Mr. Radev, Mr. Kostov and Mr. Hristov, if they have this opportunity, will take account of whether or not they approve of my proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. There is no such possibility, according to the rules of procedure adopted by us, which I correctly reminded you at the beginning of the meeting and at the point we are discussing at the moment. Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. A statement from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the most important meetings of the Forty-third National Assembly. PROBABLY GERB rightly diverted the proposal for direct broadcasting of this meeting because the situation is difficult and difficult to give enough convincing arguments for the proposals we are discussing. This day also resembles the hot summer, but in 2013, when the National Assembly voted to elect the President of the State Agency for National Security, so today the new majority is facing almost the same case. But if national security was the subject of discussion then, it is now the stability of the banking system, the distribution of the largest financial resources and the way in which this affects the Bulgarian economy, and, I stress, politics. Therefore, each one must clearly define his position. Of course, the current majority is much more flexible because it offers some vague and cohesive image that must play a similar role. Now, Peevski is not offered in the Board of Directors or any other negative image, but people are offered behind whose professionalism many other important issues can be sought. That's the kind of question that came out in the first place. Some of them will not be mentioned because they concern the other state bank, which is a commercial bank, the Bulgarian Development Bank, about whether it is used for lending to small and medium-sized businesses, or including refinancing various operations of other commercial unfortunate banks, so these are the big topics. They don't have a conversation. Therefore, today we can expect that GERB and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will most likely make the choice of the proposed voters. Some of the parliamentary groups have expressed their position that will not provide support. I address small satellite groups of the majority who clearly need to determine their position on whether they will self-attach to this majority or seek their own political path to development. That's today's choice we're facing. Therefore, I do not think that we should put any additional questions, in itself important, what are the remunerations in the Bulgarian National Bank; can you transfer functions from one sub-manager to another, or this can only be done by the manager because these functions are strictly distinguished. They can be delegated, in the case of BNB, only upward rather than horizontal or downward, so these are legal and financial issues, but they are not minor details. Today, the big political issue is: how will the decision on the proposed bids be adopted? For this reason, I think it has already been clearly stated, let me say it at the end of this discussion at the end of this discussion.. The MPs from BSP left Bulgaria will not support any of these applications, because here the issue is not about nuance of the qualities of the individual candidates, but do we want to remove this bad status quo, which puts our banking system at risk, do we want it to work in the interests of the real economy and the citizens, or do we want it to have the current impact, including on Bulgarian political life? It is the choice of each parliamentary group and of each MP individually. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u71	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? There are no lines. To speak, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's about the security of our banking system and, above all, about its trust. [[Reply: "Search! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u73	Your group doesn't have the time. You can ask for an extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u74	One third, we want an extension. I'll be too short. We have now heard the attitude of three political forces of the Patriotic Front and of BSP left Bulgaria. I will call on colleagues from GERB, from DPS, from ABB and from BBC to express their position from the platform of the National Assembly on this so important appointment of the governors of the Bulgarian National Bank. So far we have heard a good statement for me by Mr. Metodi Andreev, but he is from the civil quota of GERB. I would very much like to hear the political position of Party GERB, the DPS you have good economists and financiers in your ranks, the ABB and the BDZ. Let the Bulgarian people know who supports such an important choice. Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u75	Any lines to Mr. Slavcho Atanasov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the debate has turned from a debate on the work of BNB to the people who can do the work in a political debate into a populist debate. Unfortunately, from this tribune there were many people who had no idea what the Bulgarian National Bank was doing, what its functions and its... [[Noise and lines from RB.]] Yeah, that's right. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Madam President, may I have order in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u77	Colleagues, please, let's listen to each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u78	Because people who know what this is about will never make such statements from the stands. Just a few weeks ago, we elected Mr. Radev with a very serious majority, which showed that the MPs who voted for him had confidence. We trust Mr. Radev, and that is why today we will also vote for the team he has proposed, who has consulted and who trusts the team he believes can do the work as he has done competently in his fields so far. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very easy outside when you don't know the structure, the powers, the duties, the law, to throw common guilt. It's very easy here to look and pretend to be moral judges. It's all their fault. There were statements here that the entire bank elite was guilty. Maybe we should banish them somewhere and get a new bank elite?! [[Noise and lines from RB.]] When we listened to the candidates for vice-presidents in the Budget Committee, there you should have come, honourable gentlemen, who spoke here today, from the stands, and asked your questions, to hear the answers to these questions in detail and in competence. At the moment we cannot and should not act as full populists, wanting to make political dividends, speaking from this tribune, listening to us people who also know no details either by law or by who has done their job. Mr. Kalin Hristov is the sub-governor of the Emissary Department, elected during our term of office. A blue coalition proposal, then. Let's say it now. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Kalin Hristov, however, for all the years in which he was the sub-manager of this office, has done his work perfectly and the results of this work show it. What do the results show? They show that in the worst financial crisis, when there was a collapse in the financial markets, the collapse of the government securities of half of Europe, Bulgaria kept its currency reserve, Bulgaria kept its board. Moreover, more than 10 billion in the last six years, in which Mr. Kalin Hristov is responsible for the board and for the Emysion management, we have an increase in the currency reserve, we have a stable currency board. It's his job, and he's doing it perfectly. Once he's done it perfectly, we can't blame him with imaginary guilt on this guy and the guy who didn't do his job, his colleague, who he can't control. Mr. Mitko Kostov. (Replications from the MPs Atanas Atanasov and Nayden Zelenogorski.) Yeah, that's right. [[RB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u79	Please don't go into lines from place to place. You will have the opportunity to replicate on the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u80	To be honest, he's a shot of the ones on the left. Isn't that right? According to what those on the right said, Minister, Deputy Minister, in which governments. Mr. Kostov is mostly a professional and working in the central bank he performs his functions very well in the direction he heads. You don't know what this direction is doing. If you had come to the Commission meeting, those who were interested, you would understand. If you had decided to read the transcript, if you had even read the detailed report that we wrote, you would understand. Therefore, that Mr. Kostov has done his job perfectly, in no way can he be held responsible that any colleague of his, in this case I refer to the headmaster of the department of Bankov supervision and not just the last, but also the last, and before the last, did not do their job. The Governing Council may be liable as far as its powers and laws extend. You will say: "Why then did you want, Mrs. Stoyanova, Mrs. Iskrov's resignation so much time?" "Because, honourable colleagues, Mr. Iskrov, unlike the promoters of the respective directions, had the toolbox to understand what was happening in the Banking Supervision." And this toolbox is directly subordinate to the manager. But if you look, do you know what you'll see there? This toolbox he's got hasn't been used. This is the toolkit of internal audit, internal control, the toolkit to initiate changes to regulations or internal rules. That's not what Mr. Iskrov did. And not only didn't. He tried, very interestingly, for all the time of his reign not to make any decisions. He didn't try, he managed to do it. He delegated all the rights and obligations that the Law gave him to others. Then Mr. Iskrov cannot bear any criminal responsibility. But he had these opportunities. He didn't just have them. He had these obligations under Law, which he gave up. That's why I wanted his resignation. Otherwise, I've never wanted to, and I can't ask because I'm an honest man, a professional person, and I know that when a person is a professional, you can't burden them with negatives with things he couldn't influence. But it's very easy from here, from these banks, to give justice. It is very easy, without looking at what we have done in this time to prevent what has happened to Corporate Commercial Bank?! I don't want to talk about Mrs. Nina Stoyanova. And she's a career person, a super professional. But let's spit on her too, because you see, she worked at the BNB and she was in a high position. Well, you know, by the criteria that the Patriotic Front pointed out here, those people who should be part of Mr. Radev's team must be people who have no connection with the banking system, who have not been involved with political parties. By the way, they had relations with political parties, as I mentioned in the past, only not with the political party GERB. Well, then, you know, ladies and gentlemen, here we have a number of fellow MPs who meet these criteria perfectly, and they have neither worked in a bank nor worked in the Central Bank nor have any connection with any banking environments. Well, they're perfect for bouncers! Mr. Radev, why didn't you offer them?! [[Loud noise in BSP.]] I'll finish my speech. I'm sorry that I was emotional again, although Mr. Tsvetanov specifically asked me to be more relaxed in my speech, not to put so much emotion into it, but what do I do?! When I get out on that stand, that's how it works. We, ladies and gentlemen, from the GERB Parliamentary Group will support the team Mr. Radev proposed. We trust Mr. Radev and we believe that every governor, especially at such a difficult time, with such a difficult mission waiting for him, has the right to choose his team on which to rely and who believes that he can conduct the policy that needs to be conducted. We are looking at very complex months of work at BNB regarding what awaits us in the assessment of the assets of the entire banking system, the stress tests that will be completed in the summer of next year. We are looking at the implementation of a complex Bank Restructuring Act, the formation of a unit in this direction. A return of trust awaits us, although I am convinced that it is not lost. This is seen by the investments in Bulgarian banks. Returning the trust, which should not be shaken by what is happening in Greece and that in Bulgaria we have Bulgarian banks with Greek owners. We need to provide the manager and the team he has chosen, calm down to do this job, because it is more important than any other job. Because the financial stability of Bulgaria, the Currency Board, our path to the Eurozone, that is the key, that is what is important. And we shouldn't be messing with populists here, because, you see, they could be popular in front of electorates, but risk the really important things for the state. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u81	First line Mr. Ananiev, second line Mr. Zablyanov, third line Mr. Delyan Dobrev, personal explanation for Mr. Emil Dimitrov [[Replication of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova]] ..and he recognized himself.. Mrs. Stoyanova, when you talk about the Patriotic Front, the belonging of the group to the Patriotic Front, has the right to stand up and explain. They broadcast Mr. Emil Dimitrov. And then you'll have a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I have three comments or lines for you. You've said what the proposed people have done for the government, but the debate here is about what they haven't done. That's the problem, because of what they didn't finish, the case with KTB happened. There's no left or right in this debate. There's moral, immoral, right and wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u83	Who are we to judge what is right and what is wrong?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u84	I also have a question for you. We know that Mr. Iskrov proposed Mr. Kostov a month or two ago for a vice president, but we never voted him out. Why didn't we vote then and vote now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u85	Second line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Stoyanova, this populism thing, where you tell it, has deep roots. It is no accident that the National Assembly elects the Governing Council of BNB. And it is assumed that in the composition of this National Assembly not all are financiers. Perhaps this is how you imagine some members of the National Assembly, but it will not be a National Assembly, but some other body..... an exemplary board of some financial institution. It is no accident that the National Assembly, in all of its composition, in all the colors of our preparation, professions, biographies, can judge and speak both on professional suitability and on BNB's policy and on admitted weaknesses, and including why not on the bank's accounts, which come back to this National Assembly. Isn't that right?! The budget of BNB is also voted by this National Assembly. You expect, excuse me? To gather the bankers to elect the governor of BNB? I have a feeling you have a deformed idea of how to protect the interests of society. I'm going to make a more free speech than this tribune. When the bank lost its money, the bank lost its money, the bank lost its money, it was robbed. Who's to protect these people?! Those who were intercept consultants?! Those who are currently dealing with the transfers of companies to the closed bank?! Who's gonna protect them?! That is why the National Assembly is elected. I have a feeling that if you are a narrow specialist in finance and you must be proud of this job, it is not bad to enter the depths of democracy. [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB.]] Because it's high time you knew why they chose you. And one more thing. Your words are that the entire Board of Directors must take the moral responsibility. How is it taken, Mrs. Stoyanova, the moral responsibility? Two ways.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u87	He'll answer you in the back. Time's up for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u88	With resignation, and the other option is Mr. Radev taking them to church every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Third line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u90	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you tried to return the debate to a professional plane, unfortunately, you failed. Unfortunately, we continue to listen to populism from this tribune who will support, who will not support and why it will not support. My line to you is once again to explain with quite simple words to all colleagues on the left and right who do not need to be financiers in order to understand the difference between the board of directors of a commercial company and managers of BNB. The government at the BNB has a direction, they have, quite simply speaking, portfolios, colleagues. Each one of them is responsible for their own portfolio. We have not heard a single criticism of the proposed boosters in the portfolios for which they are responsible. Do you have any criticism of the boosters for the portfolios they've been responsible for so far? You don't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u91	You did!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u92	We didn't hear a single criticism. There is no comparison between the board of directors of a commercial company, where all members of this board are responsible for the same thing, with the governors of BNB, who are closely specialized and responsible for certain things in BNB. I ask you under the BNB Act to acquaint your colleagues with what are the portfolios in BNB, which portfolios we choose today, why these people are professionals for these particular portfolios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u93	Why did you want their resignations?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u94	Please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u95	I'm sorry, I have thirty more seconds, if I may, Madam President. An hour ago, I was quoted without being in the hall, I was on the sidelines, with my statement how I wanted the resignation of the entire Board of Directors of BNB. The colleague who did it, I think it was Gechev, apparently he doesn't have the right source. I asked for Iskrov's resignation, but I didn't ask for the resignation of the entire Board of Directors. Colleagues, if you please, when quoting sources, let there be the source, the date, the transmission. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize, but I remember my words very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u96	A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I'll start with your line. I will not explain what you asked me to explain, because anyone who wanted to get into the debate, although not a professional, could at least have bothered to read a 25-page report by the Committee on Budget and Finance from her hearing; it would have made it clear to him who is responsible for what, who has what functions and who has done them. Obviously, that is not the point, as the colleague on the left mentioned here are not professionals. Dear colleagues, when you vote in this House, you should at least try to consult professionals if you do not have enough professional capacity in a particular direction. No offense to the talker, I understand that he is also not a narrow specialist and therefore it is better not to speak on this topic because the budget of BNB is not voted in this House. There's no such thing. If he had read the reports of the BNB, as he claims, which are constantly coming to the National Assembly and entering the Ministry of Justice, he would at least know this. I don't want to comment on this plane. The third replicator asked me three questions: the first one was: why didn't we choose Dimitar Kostov when Mr. Iskrov proposed it? Well, because we don't trust Mr. Iskrov, but we trust Mr. Radev. [[Noise, cheer, lines, cheering.]] Secondly, you made a line to me that I said who did what I thought was right, and I didn't say who didn't do what. In their portfolios, they did what they had to do. What is not done is in the portfolio of the Bank's supervision and the rest of the governors have neither the powers nor the obligations nor the opportunity to do checks on each other in their portfolios. Such an obligation and such an opportunity has the manager through his tools which he has not used. So I don't see what I can say what they didn't do. As for the moral side of the matter, I think I've been talking about it. We need people professionals in an important sphere for Bulgaria. Moral assessments from people different, people who do not know, people looking for populism, looking for what will appeal to the ordinary person, I think it will be harmful for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u98	Mr. Emil Dimitrov, personal explanation. [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] You have a procedure in the manner of conduct before Mr. Emil Dimitrov's personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u99	Madam President, I am extremely disappointed at your holding the meeting and the possibility of the finite of the Rules, not to say in his violation, to give the floor for a personal explanation to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, whose name I have not mentioned. If you read the Rules carefully, you will see that the person concerned may have If there is such an opportunity in the Rules, why hasn't it been given to any group so far? I think that you should make a reference to the Rules and not give the floor for a personal explanation to Mr. Emil Dimitrov. [[Noise, cheer and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Anyone who feels offended and has recognized himself in a speech of a Member of the National Assembly can become one and explain what he has been affected with. I will personally listen with interest to Mr. Emil Dimitrov. I'm hoping he'll have two minutes because there's a lot he's been writing, and he can explain what he's insulted with. We're listening, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u101	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to read again a prominent classic named Mr. Boyko Borisov. Then I'm gonna develop the subject. We heard from the statement of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u102	You won't get that chance! You have to tell me how you are personally affected by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u103	I said Boyko Borisov, not Todor Zhivkov and all his volumes. First, from the statement of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova we understood as a collective image of GERB that in the National Assembly no one understands what is happening in the banks. This follows two general conclusions: why do you have to vote at all who should be in charge if you do not understand what the activity there is? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] The more complicated problem for me is another. After Mr. Boyko Borisov spoke, Tsetska Tsacheva and Menda Stoyanova to request the resignation...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u104	You tell me what you're affected with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u105	...are they of the understanding or of the misunderstood part of the National Assembly? Because if they're understanding, let's listen to them and ask for the resignation and not vote. If they're the misunderstood ones, then they can. Last year, you asked for resignations. You changed your mind this year. Which part are you? For the team, I apologize very much when Mr. Radev came over and we asked him: what happened at KTB? Things have happened. [[Noise, cheer and lines.]] Even if you cry and don't cry, it's the truth you changed your mind in no time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u106	How are you affected as a member of the Patriotic Front group she mentioned?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u107	Last: good or bad are the people who managed BNB last year? According to Boyko Borisov, yes, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u108	How did it affect you? Are you ashamed of being a member of this group? Tell me, how are you affected?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u109	We have criticism and it is in full compliance with Mr. Boyko Borisov's words, and they are: The entire Governing Council of BNB should throw its resignation and replace them with new people on Monday. These people suffer from a lack of reputation. Whatever they say, I can't trust them. I can't let them go out and talk, and they're gonna insinuate for days and days and so on. Our opinion fully corresponds to the words of Mr. Boyko Borisov last year and we see no doubt that we should change them today.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Colleagues, I can't give a personal explanation. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] The word for speech in the order of request: first in time, raised his hand Mr. Kirilov, then Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, take action with Mrs. Stoyanova! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u111	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this speech as a matter of extreme urgency. The interest in asking for this speech is expressed in the following. We're in a public hearing about candidates! Such public procedures have been conducted in previous national meetings several times, I refrain from saying, dozens of times. By the regulations of several laws and by the current Rules of Procedure, we have laid down the rules for the production of selection procedures. Most critical as a story seemed to be the procedure for selecting the Chief Inspector of the Judicial System. On the third time, we chose Chief Inspector. This procedure has shown our great desire to participate in such hearings and proceedings that are carried out in the National Assembly. Why is that? Because for the judiciary in order, the discussion of the personal and personal qualities of certain candidates came to an exhilaration which, I would say, clearly affects both the honour and dignity of the candidates in question. In some cases for the judiciary, I say we have reached a deficit of applications. I was surprised by what I've heard so far. I regret to note that I have not been involved as a listener, as an observer, along with colleagues from the Budget and Finance Committee, who is leading this procedure. But before you and in the last parliament, I have always allowed myself, regardless of political interest, to say, or the political thesis to protect professionals and colleagues, no matter what they are my opponents. Whatever we do in this room, we must protect the honor and dignity of the experts. I'll say again, as I said on the resignation for Mrs. Maya Manolova: "Don't shoot the expert, don't shoot the professional when he's doing his job." There are specialties that require great qualifications and experience. An expert passes in his life complex stages of his development. I was offended by how colleagues commented on personal history and around it made suggestions for some or others for experts. Don't do this! We need the experts. I will allow myself very briefly to read you excerpts from the definition of ostracism. [[Happy tidings.]] You all know it, you all have, you can say, a degree in political science, a method of political struggle introduced by Klisten. Every spring, the National Assembly of Athens at a quorum of no less than six thousand people decide to expel or not someone dangerous to the democratic order of a police citizen. There are citizens who, with their enormous influence in society, are considered potential tyrants. [[Noise and glad tidings.]] Every citizen writes on a clay piece the name of the man he thinks is dangerous to democracy. The person convicted with the majority has been expelled from Athens for a term of ten years, and the penalty for possible return to the police is death. Ostracism is not a form of court. Everyone votes according to their opinion without discussing the arguments for the vote. From the found clay tiles [[laughs and cheers]] interesting are the observations of researchers, according to which a large number of single-name sharps are written with just a few handwritings, which shows... [[Noise and glad tidings, laughter in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u112	Mr. Kirilov! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u113	..that often the ostracization was prepared to the extent of handing out ready-made sharps. [[Laughter, noise and joyous excitement.]] Through this democratic form of banishment of political opponents, the Athenians are deprived of many of the most capable citizens and such as generals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u114	Get back to the subject, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u115	I'm done, Madam President. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u116	- What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u117	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you for making us feel better. It was really fun listening to him, and I'd even go on with his thought of ostracism...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u118	Useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u119	Thanks to you for cheering us up. It was really listening to him, I would even continue his thought of the ostracism that at the moment we are in a similar situation, based on the fact that, for example, one of the parliamentary groups would choose at all without having a debate on the issue, right? The choice will be made without arguments on it. The other group also came out without arguments, but with political suggestion to talk to us. Let us make a small difference that if Athens has chased them from Athens, I now see that ostracism will express itself in keeping them where they are so that they will suffer for another six years. [[Happy tidings.]] Something like this is happening right now, and I think it's not serious to talk about us being humiliated or something that is questioning professionalism, the people that are being proposed to be the underdogs. No! No one is questioning their professionalism and no one is questioning their political past, which at the same time does not give them any political identity at the moment. What's it like? Everyone has gone through life, is somewhere in political space today, but we are questioning the morality of this proposal. This morality, which you, colleagues from GERB, about three or four months ago, have also questioned and you have all said that it is not morally moral for the Governing Council to remain to manage the bank after those things that happened there. This is our fight, not some other guy. Not about whether they're professionals or not. Is it moral members of the Governing Council that you wanted, including the resignation, to be offered today as members of the Governing Council of the new bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u120	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u121	Thank you, Madam President. I'm very sorry, there were very difficult and complicated words here. We're not going to destroy anyone, we're not going to kill anyone, we're not going to stop anyone in a violent way. We just want to say that these people should not be on the board right now, to take on other, much more worthy posts, for which no one contests their qualifications, they have it. Maybe we should just say that we're already going into cretinism. Let's stop! We don't have to throw notions and accusations that don't exist. None of us have said that these people should be sentenced and that they should necessarily be who you are. They will bear the responsibility they should bear. No one has said: they must never take any state or other office for life. No, on the contrary, they are competent and I said myself, one of them was my minister. But after all the negatives to them, after everything your senior party leadership said last year, now you're suddenly accusing me of just because I don't want to vote, I'm a murderer and I don't know what you are, because I want to remove these people is a little far-fetched. However, you must explain to the voters that the money is gone and that there is no guilt and that last year you had one opinion, and now you have to turn around. And they'll ask you, who made you do it and against what? That's the problem. And acuteism is something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u122	Third line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Dimitrov, a large part of the speakers and participants in the debate are fellow-jurists. I don't believe in inertia responsibility, I don't believe in responsibility. I strive to follow the legal principle that responsibility is personal and that it arises when there are proven facts and circumstances which establish a breach at least, not to say in the more serious case. That's why I took the liberty of being offended that we were carrying on. The governor in charge of banking supervision, who we know is being prosecuted and charged, is not part of the nominations and nominations. Again, I'm not talking about moral responsibility here at all. You assaulted your colleagues as legally responsible. For this reason, I took the liberty of taking your time and sharing my thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u124	A statement by Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when you have no arguments, you start entertaining the hall with philosophy concepts. I have arguments in three directions and questions, of course. First of all, to some of the people who, in my opinion, have the capacity to report to the NATFIZ and take the A-plus exam, I want to tell them that they have the wrong room. This is the highest authority of the state in the country, the National Assembly, the most political body. This body talks mainly and only about politics. Someone here has a mistake, or maybe in the same direction because of a lack of arguments, is bothering us with such things. I'd like to ask two or three questions. Then I'll ask Mr. Radev something. Why was it that when Mr. Iskrov proposed Dimitar Kostov as a vice governor that this candidacy was not put to the vote in the Chamber then? Will anyone answer that question? Because by law, the governors are offered by the manager. And when the proposal is formally made, it must enter the Chamber. Who stopped him and why? [[Reply from the left: "The application made it Iskrov"]] Someone's in charge here. Maybe the answer is simple? This application is just Iskrov's, and now it's reheated. That's right. Last night, by the way, I read something and found that Gunev, who was indicted, is at least on the Board of the Bank for a year and a half. Is he having an interesting interview yesterday, an article? It's good to read. I won't comment on him. I don't know him. I don't know those gentlemen back there either. I want to tell you, colleagues, here in downtown: because of KTB, the Oresharski government is gone. A whole government is gone. The composition of the high authority of the state was replaced. And those who are responsible, you will choose them again today. Do you realize that? And then why did the trust in the National Assembly fall? Well, that's because we're here telling each other about the ostracism. That's why. It's being watched by people. About the deficit. There can't be a deficit. On the contrary, there are enough capable people, but most likely over the years some have been checked that they are obedient. That's why they get the label, they're experts. They're experts, but not what you're talking about. They're experts in the obedience they have. And don't talk me into personal responsibility. We're not dealing with criminal liability here, we're not in trial under the Penal Code. If it were only personal responsibility, there wouldn't be a body formed in the Law. Read what powers the Management Board has and what it does. All of Bulgaria knew what was going on with this bank. People went out into the streets and took down power because of what happened at the bank. And there, on the board of BNB, they didn't know. Where were they during that time? And a few words to Mr. Radev, who I voted for. I'm starting to think I was wrong. But there are times like this sometimes you get it wrong. Mr. Radev, you said these people have an impeccable reputation. Are you sure about that? Hmm! Were they willing to do what? If they had the will, they would have done what they had to do before you came. The most important thing that has impressed me from your speech. You said you wanted to bet on continuity. In what? Do you remember, there was, a little exaggeration, of course, there was a cartoon of a being that (covers with his hands mouth, ears, and eyes), remember this? I didn't hear, I didn't see... I don't know, is it a cartoon or not? And lastly, I'm done. I insist, of course, if anyone has to hear, I insist on these parliamentary groups, and first of all, the DPS, who will vote for this choice... [[Replys from the DPS: "How do you know how we're going to vote? "]] I know how you'll vote. Therefore, I insist that you come out here on the stand and tell yourself why you will vote for..................................................................................................... and the other center You can see the structure. Get out here on the stands. I really agree with someone who said that this was one of the very important days of the National Assembly meetings. It is not possible for those who will vote to remain silent, but only for those who will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u126	Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? Mr. Tsonev, Mrs. Stoyanova and Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u127	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, dear Mr. Atanasov! Neither your parliamentary group, nor your little party, nor you personally are able to tell the Party about the Rights and Freedoms Movement and its parliamentary group what to do, how to do it and when to do it. We are a party that has been present in the Bulgarian Parliament since the beginning of democracy, defends its positions on the ground, and when we decide to do so, we will do it in a way that we have always done it openly and firmly enough. So please deal with your parliamentary group. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u128	Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u129	Mr. Atanasov, I answered your first question, but either you weren't in the room or you didn't want to hear from me. Yes, we didn't choose then, we didn't vote, we didn't debate Mr. Iskrov's nominations for Mr. Kostov. Why? Because we don't trust Mr. Iskrov. We didn't trust and we didn't trust. Now we trust Mr. Radev. And not only does it matter if we trust Mr. Iskrov or Mr. Radev. Mr. Kostov is a professional I trust, too. I'm speaking in a personal capacity. Nominated by one person whose resignation I want every half hour of the stands, it is normal that this person also cannot be trusted. That's the reason. As for your statement, which was rather some form of protection of Mr. Gounev, he had moved at least to the Governing Council. Well, staying at the board of directors doesn't work. Just because he hasn't been doing his job, and during his entire term of office for a year and a half, there hasn't been an on-the-spot check at KTB, that's the reason why we've come to this situation. Those people who have done their job, these are the people of the branch of Bankovo and the department of Emisonno. No one here can say a bad word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u130	Third line? You refuse, Mr. Tsvetanov. A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Regarding Mr. Tsonev's reply, I have a very short answer: all of Bulgaria, and not only in Bulgaria, knows who is in charge of the DPS. There's nothing else I can tell you. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Regarding Mrs. Stoyanova. Ms. Stoyanova, today we do not choose Ivan Iskrov, but I would like to tell you that whether Ivan Iskrov, or Dimitar Radev, proposed someone, does this change the qualities of the one we choose? Does it change the qualities of the one we choose?! My reproach to you was that the procedure described in the Law was not followed. Because when the Governor of BNB, no matter what his name is and at what point he made a proposal, it should be voted by the National Assembly and the one who stopped the procedure has broken the Law. You wanted me to say it more directly, and I told you that. Don't pin any lawyers on me here. I've pointed out certain facts. By the way, I know, and not just me, it takes years to get the whole truth about KTB. At this stage, only one part of this truth is clear, which is convenient for those who messed up the KTB and made this whole affair. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are aware of this again, I do not know the exact amount, but about 4 billion are missing and this is the result of a bank affair that was developing before the eyes of the entire society and the institutions were idle. The question must be asked: why did the institutions do nothing? Now, at some point, those who first had to monitor this process, those who had the toolbox to interrupt this process, we will choose them again. I tell you, I am convinced that the main quality that they are offered for and today you will vote them here is that they have proved to be obedient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u132	Colleagues, there is one last statement by Mr. Bayraktarov, claimed so far. Are there any other MPs besides him? I won't. I suggest we listen to Mr. Bayraktarov, finish the point and then rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Stoyanova, you're absolutely right that we should step on a professional basis. When we talk about understanding the functions of BNB, it is right to say in fact what functions BNB has under the terms of the Monetary Council............................................................................................. But a function is extremely important, this function is maintaining the minimum reserve of commercial banks, and through this minimum reserve, the esteemed former governors know that liquidity and security should be guaranteed to both the depositors and the borrowers. This is where you showed your failure, because not only did you not guarantee the security of the depositors, bankrupting the largest bank CTB, but something more. Ms. Stoyanova, the main security indicator of the Monetary Council is monetary gold. From these gentlemen there no one has ever indicated what is the natural indicator of monetary gold. [[Noise and lines. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] Because it is measured in ounces, if you don't know, and not just in value.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u135	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I would like to replicate to you that your statement of reasoning on a professional basis in a sense is veiling the moral responsibility that the entire Board of Directors of BNB carries for the bankruptcy of Corporate Commercial Bank. Not just that. Bulgaria is waiting for a number of international affairs in which, hopefully, not to be a bad prophet, will be condemned. Then, I ask today's Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank Mr. Radev, what will be your answer to the moral responsibility of your team, whose work the state will be condemned for? What will your answer be? This one team, like those three monkeys, one doesn't hear, one doesn't see, the other doesn't know, was it all these years, or was they supposed to talk to each other?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u136	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u137	Mr. Karadjov, you're absolutely right about what you said, only I'm going to fill you in because, first of all, some people here were talking about openness, about transparency, but they forgot last night that they wanted to do so openly and transparently through forgery of a Commission report. [[Noise and lines. Communicating: "Eee! "]] This is the open and transparent management of some people. As for normal business logic, it is normal for a manager to choose his composition, only that Mr. Radev told us that for more than 15 years he is outside Bulgaria. How, having been out of Bulgaria for 15 years, have you come to know the people you're offering us today as buffs who are actually your left, right hand and head? How does this thing happen? Because I have the impression that you as an independent manager of an independent body actually seem to be independent because nothing depends on you. That's the impression that's being created, Mr. Radev. To finish the professional theme. Are you going to take responsibility for the fact that those colleagues of yours who were supposed to be watching for those minimum reserves that were supposed to guarantee the liquidity, the security of the banks, tomorrow will not give us another report that turns out not to be the report; another audit that proves that it was not this audit and will shatter their hands for the bankruptcy of another bank? Will you take that responsibility? And you have to take it here in front of everyone, because it is clear that the DPS will support the choice of your proposals because they are directly interested. The media showed it and proved it. I address colleagues from GERB because I am sure that there is still common sense: do not allow this body to continue to rule BNB, colleagues! Don't let him! I know that there are people with common sense, I know that there are many understandings, and yesterday this has been proved by the behaviour of these very people who understood and thwarted this multimillion dollar deal that would have happened here in the National Assembly. I rely precisely on such people who understand not to allow another disgrace to happen in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u138	Any other MPs? [[Heckling]] After the break, Mr. Imamov. I'm calling a 30-minute recess... [[Noise and lines.]] I asked if there were any other... Wait a minute, guys. Mr. Imamov is giving up. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Project! DECISION on the election of a deputy manager of the management of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and art. 12, para. Art. 2 and 4 and art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and on a proposal of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as the head of management of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of six years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. Voting mode. Mr. Lilkov, were you able to vote? Vote 190 MPs: 121, against 65, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Slavov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I want a revoting because, although my colleague Lilkov managed to vote at the last second, I saw how he flew into the Chamber Binev from the Patriotic Front [[(Shouting ……]] who couldn't vote, and I think he can confirm it. So I'm asking you to re-vote. However, colleagues, we are really not talking about continuity here, but we are talking about the reflection of responsibility and the transfer of responsibility with this vote on this Parliament. So let's all be clear about what we do and what we really vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u140	It's a re-vote. Vote 191 MPs: 122, against 65, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here's a negative vote. Mr. Mihov, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u141	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against because I believed that we would be able to prevent the first mistake of the management of BNB. I voted against, although about a month ago we gave a huge credit of trust to Dimitar Radev the new governor. As a banker, he knows that the loan comes back and comes back with interest. I know bankers love penal interest, but it's the citizens who suffer the most from penal interest. Please, from now on, take the necessary measures despite this mistake that you have made, to restore trust with small steps and small contributions, as you have missed today's opportunity. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u142	For the second negative vote, Mr. Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The Bulgarian National Bank is the first state institution in the new history. It was established on 25 January 1879. [[crowd cheering]] ... It's as if we have a problem with silence...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u144	Colleagues, please hear from a colleague of your parliamentary group! [[Loud noise.]] Please keep order in the court! We're listening, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u145	The Bulgarian National Bank was established before a founding meeting [[crowd cheering]] before there was a Tarnovo Constitution before there was a Council of Ministers before there was a Head of State. I often say to a lecture that there is a bank there is a Bulgarian state. Today the crisis of statehood affects the Bulgarian National Bank. I voted against because it is not good when the governor of the Central Bank says that KTB will open in one month and KTB is bankrupt and will bury billions of Bulgarian citizens and companies. It is not good when the Minister of Finance leads the candidate as governor of BNB in the institution. It's not good when a MP, he and the chairman of the Budget Committee, says he's gonna beat somebody up. Worse still, this someone is the manager of the Bulgarian National Bank. It is not good for the new governor of the Bulgarian National Bank to offer the same team in the management of the Central Bank. These accumulations of bad things lead to a crisis of confidence in the Central Bank. Because the Central Bank, the money of Bulgaria, the financial stability of Bulgaria should have universal political support, not the basis of a party deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u146	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u147	Mr. Christian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u148	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take the floor for a procedure to explain that there has been a technical error in voting on our...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u149	There's no such procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u150	There's a procedure. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] I've taken the floor for procedure anyway, I'm not going into dialogue with the House. I would like to say that I voted against the first and second times, despite the discharge of the system. There's been a technical error and I'm declaring my vote against it. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u151	Colleagues, everyone's experienced fatigue. I accept Mr. Mitev's volition, his personal volition, all the more so that in the first vote he clearly expressed his vote and he is not in favour of the decision. We've done this before, I don't see why this is happening. Project! DECISION on the release of the sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 12, para. 7 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He released Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. We vote. Vote 181 MPs: 169, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION for the election of a sub-governeur, Head of the Management of the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. Art. 2 and 4 and art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and on a proposal of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED He elected Kalin Dimitrov Hristov as the deputy head of the management of the Bulgarian National Bank for a term of 6 years with effect from 24 October 2015 We vote. Vote 192 MPs: 125, against 58, abstention 9. [[Reply of MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Negative vote? You've been speaking to the point, Mr. Ermenkov. You spoke! Are you guys making a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u152	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against this particular application. I will also vote against the other, and I also voted against the other. But I voted against this particular application because if you get acquainted with the recordings during the talks with Mr. President, in the past the National Assembly, when the situation at KTB was discussed, it was Mr. Hristov who proposed the bank vacation. For this reason, I do not think this application is appropriate. Among other things, I use this case as a negative vote to say that the negative vote is also as a warning to the bank manager, whom we have chosen, something that he can correct with only one action from now on, namely to clarify what happened at the KTB, to say what were the reasons why the D.A. did not have any role in the collapse of the bank, and all those details that the public is aware of, but there is no one who can say them openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u153	You say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u154	Project! DECISION for the election of a sub-governeur, Head of the Management of the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12, para. Art. 2 and 4 and art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and on a proposal of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Nina Ivanova Stoyanova to be the head of the management of the Bulgarian National Bank, with a mandate of 6 years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. Voting mode. They voted 193 MPs: 126, against 61, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please come in for an oath. There's an oath coming! [[The National Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups of the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u155	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the laws of the country, to assist in carrying out the functions entrusted to the Bulgarian National Bank, as well as to protect the professional, banking, commercial or other legally protected secret, including after my powers have ceased. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u156	Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 12.35. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u157	We continue the plenary session with the next item: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE GENERAL LONG. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 June, was adopted at the first vote on 10 July 2015. Welcome from the Budget and Finance Committee, Mrs. Yordanova Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act No 502-01-45, which was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2015, which was adopted at the first vote on 10 July 2015. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Municipal Debt Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any speeches? No. I put the name of the Law to the vote according to the text of the importer. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Import Act has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u160	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u161	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1 to 11 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 1 to 11 including the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u162	"Transitional provision." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u163	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, § 12 of the Municipal Debt Act does not. Since, in Transitional and Final Provisions, we create a factually new paragraph, where do we refer it, to which part, to which of the laws that we accompany, or to this Law do we specify? There is something here that concerns me personally, perhaps I should have, but we were not active enough in the Commission to make an adjustment. We say that only for 2015 the annual amount of payments under long-term contracts with a guaranteed ECCO result for each municipality is not included in the total annual amount. Mr President, I am making an editorial note not only for 2015 but to make it a general statement that the annual amount of payments remains in this status, to be treated for each year in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u165	- What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Yankova, I share what you said. In another debate, however, when we were looking at the Energy Act and talking about these projects, we said we would make such an amendment. The explanation is that now in the Municipal Debt Act we are doing this only for 2015, changing the Public Finance Act and there we will write it as a whole that these projects and their annual funding cannot be considered as municipal debt. It's technical. I allow myself to guarantee you from this tribune that we will. First of all, your proposal is not editorial. Second, purely technologically, it doesn't belong here. I guarantee we'll do it. Our understanding is also the same. We believe that we should stimulate, especially municipalities, to work on such contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u167	Are there any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Yankova, the dodger?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to believe that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will initiate this as chairman. On the other note, which paragraph do we put para. One and two? There is no such paragraph in the Municipal Debt Act if you open it. I'm sure the experts have cooperated, they've written, but find a paragraph in which to record para. 1 and para. 2. Mr. Chairman, would you like to take a look or open the inquiries?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dora Yankova in § 12, para. For 2015 the expression should be dismissed. Is that right? [[Replications of MP Dora Yankova from place.]] Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 83 MPs: 18, against 5, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the section "Transitional provision" as well as § 12 by importer, which remains respectively § 12 in the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The text of the division, as well as § 12, have been adopted, with this and the Bill. Let's go to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONSTRUCTION. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 July 2015 adopted at the first vote on 21 July 2015. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to her President Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 July 2015, adopted at the first vote on 21 July 2015. The second vote is on the draft. "Improvement and supplement of the Bankruptcy Act.' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u171	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The text of the importer for the name of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u172	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 shall be added at the end, unless otherwise provided for in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u173	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 1. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's version of § 1 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u174	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u175	There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The text of the importer for § 2 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u176	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u177	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 3 to be rejected. Vote 96 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 3 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u179	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4 which in the Commission report becomes § 3 and is therefore supported by the same. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u180	The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 3 the following amendments shall 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words "al." 5, t. 1s and 1s are replaced by "al." 7, p. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u181	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 together with the corresponding text. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The creation of a new § 4 pursuant to the Commission report and the corresponding text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u182	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article In the case of a bank or a trade union, by the permission of the fund, the trade union may authorise persons to represent it in the proceedings in the cases in which the bank or the trade union is a party or to bring such cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u183	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 5. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u184	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 18 words. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission 2. A new t. is created. 19: "19." Grants permission to the trade union for the authorisation of persons pursuant to art. 31, para. 3.................................................................................. 3. Previously on "T." 19 becomes ct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u185	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 in the version of the Commission on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u186	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u187	We vote on the two paragraphs. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u188	The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 9 and 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 § 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68, the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u189	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the creation of new paragraphs 9 and 10 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u190	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u191	We vote. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u192	The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 96, the words "al." This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u193	We vote. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 13, which become paragraphs 13, 14, 15 and 16, respectively, as well as the name of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u195	Statements? I won't. Anblock, we vote on the four paragraphs and the name of the division. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u196	According to § 14 there is a proposal from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Gorov and Valeri Zablyanov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 2 and 3 and supports the proposal under point 3. 4. I'll read the unsupported proposals: In the transitional and final provisions, Paragraph 14 shall be amended as follows: 1. 1 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. in Art. 1. 35f, para. 3 is repealed. 2. in t. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) points (b) and (c) shall be deleted; (b) in the letter "de', the expression "to date'. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it........................................................................................................ the following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Regulation (c) in letter............................................................................................... 6 becomes para. 5 and is replaced by "al'. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing (d) points (j) and (j) shall be deleted. 3. t. 3 is out. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The Act on Independent Financial Audit (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35f, para. 3 the words "vote and secret vote" shall be replaced by "three votes and a clear vote" and a sentence shall be created second: "The manner of voting and the reasons of each voter shall be reflected in a minutes of the committee meeting and shall be published on the committee's website." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "instructions' and "instructions' shall be replaced by "instructions'; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The quality control system shall be established and operated by rules, procedures and plans jointly developed by the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors and by the Management Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants. The rules, procedures and plans shall be adopted by the Management Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants and shall be validated by the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. (c) a new para shall be created. 3: The development of new rules, procedures and quality control plans or their amendment shall be carried out at the initiative of the Institute of Graduated Accountants or of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. (d) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4; (e) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the word "workers' shall be replaced by "servicemen'; (f) the current para. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: The Commission for the Public Supervision of Registered Auditors shall, on the basis of the results of the inspections carried out by the Commission inspectors as well as by the Controllers of the Institute of Graduated Accountants, be entitled to provide prescriptions which are mandatory for the implementation by the registered auditors and specialised audit firms. (g) the current para. 6, 7 and 8 become respectively. 7, 8 and 9; (h) the current para. 9 becomes a new para. 10. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40c, para. 1, t. 7 words................................................................................. The following 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "video" is added. The words "from 2000 to 20 000 BGN" shall be replaced by "in the amount of 2 to 10 percent of the total amount of revenue of the registered auditor or the specialized undertaking for the previous financial year, including the amounts under art. 40 m, para. 1, t. the following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (b) point 3 is repealed. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 41a: Art. 41a (1) A registered auditor and/or a specialised audit firm shall be subject to a fine or a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN where a check or investigation carried out by the controllers of the Institute of Graduated Accountants or by the inspectors of the Commission is found to have violated the requirements of art. 22, para. Art. 2, Art. 27, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 28 and Art. 33. (2) When the infringements under para. 1 are carried out by a registered auditor who carries out an independent financial audit on behalf of a specialised audit firm, the penalty shall be imposed on the registered auditor-physical person and on the specialised audit firm on whose behalf the audit has been carried out. (3) When the infringement under para. 1 has been remanded, the fine or penalty shall be doubled. (4) The acts for the identification of infringements and criminal decrees shall be issued in accordance with the order of art. 41, para. 6, 7 and 8..................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u197	Statements? We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I'll make a statement. As the report is written, the proposal of the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Gorov and Valeri Zablyanov in their section was adopted by the Commission. 4, namely: "4." of which: 5 letter (s) is added at the beginning of the text after the word (s). What's this about? The importers of the text.. in fact, me and my colleagues have proposed a serious increase, a change in the way sanctions are imposed when the Commission for Supervision of the Registered Auditors finds a breach of the rules and procedures. We had made a proposal that the current fine of 2 thousand to 20 thousand BGN should be replaced by up to 10 percent of the total revenue of the registered auditors or the specialized audit firm for the previous financial year, including the amounts under art. 40 m, para. 1, t. 9. Colleagues have proposed to have a lower limit that starts from 2% to 10%. The Commission has adopted this proposal, but I, Madam President, am making this statement to say that I consider placing such a high threshold of 2% of the total revenue of the undertaking concerned to be extremely high. By recording it as a mandatory minimum in the Law, there will be cases where minor infringements that would have no consequences for the fissure or the audited person or for the users of the balance sheets certified by the auditor concerned would be a huge penalty. I therefore believe that we should not accept this proposal. He should be out of bounds. Sanction's high enough. To enable the Commission, which, I note, already with a clear vote and with the motives of each voter on the website in order to have broad transparency, for broad public and other control, could determine the amount of the penalty according to the severity and consequences of such an infringement. That's why my proposal is t. 4 of BSP's proposal left Bulgaria to vote on it, even though it is supported by the Commission. I call on my fellow Members to vote abstention on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u199	Give the main text to the Commission under § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u200	In the main text of the Commission, i.e. 4 in art. 41, para. 1 letter..............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u201	What do you suggest? Let's do your editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u202	I propose that in the expression "in the amount of 2" I go from 2 to 2. Remains: "In amount up to 10 percent of the total amount of revenue of the registered auditors."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u203	He's dropping the bottom line of the penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u204	That's right. It's up to 10 percent of the total volume.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u205	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Gorov and Valeri Zablyanov in the unsupported points of points 1, 2 and 3, where the Commission does not support their proposal. Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 18, Against 55, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposal in § 17, p. 4 of the version of the Commission for Changes in Art. 41, para. 1 letter.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are voting on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal made in the Chamber. Vote 89 MPs: for 76, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 17 on the report with Mrs. Stoyanova's newly adopted editorial proposal. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u206	Under § 15 there is a proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in the Transitional and Final Provisions § 15 to be repealed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u207	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. You want a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u208	Madam President, honourable Members! Due to the feeble chamber in plenary, I ask for a name-check.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u209	Name check! Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Methodiev- here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov-- here. Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- absent Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Cyril Andonov Kotev- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev is absent. Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- missing Mariana Georgieva Todorova- missing Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- absent Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- here Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Additional entry: Atanas Tashkov, Valentin Radev, Ventsislav Kaimakanov, Ayhan Etem, Dimitar Delchev, Dimitar Shishkov, Borislav Mihailov, Emil Raynov, Atanas Stoyanov, Danail Kirilov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Lyubomir Vladimirov, Erdinch Hajrola, Nastimir Ananiev, Maya Manolova. There is a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer for § 15 and proposes to be rejected. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. 100 MPs voted: 94, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u210	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u211	Statements? I won't. We vote § 16 by importer, which becomes § 18. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. This Law was passed at second reading. Go ahead, Mr. Adamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u212	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time until the examination and vote on this. 6 of our weekly program. Second vote on the National Security Service Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u213	Including or without her?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u214	Including her.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u215	A counteroffer? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 107 MPs: 90, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u216	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention a report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 502-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015, adopted at the first vote on 16 July 2015. The Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u217	We vote. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u218	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), In the event of the detection of violations of this law and its implementing rules, new circumstances or new written evidence essential for the judgment under para. 1, within one year of the detection of infringements, new circumstances or new written evidence, but not later than three years after the entry into force of the plan for land separation or the decision of the municipal agriculture office under para. 1, t. 1, the Minister of Agriculture and Food on his own initiative or at the request of the interested parties shall revoke the decision of the Municipal Agriculture Office or order the Municipal Agriculture Office to amend it. This row shall not apply where the same land is subject to a judgment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u219	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u220	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I have a proposal for an editorial amendment to the text, as the deadline for proposals has been significantly shortened, so I have not been able to make them. In the last sentence, where the decision of the municipal services of agriculture is recorded, the word "changes" to be replaced by the word "review" is replaced by the word "review." Now I want to say exactly what I want.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u221	I didn't write anything down. Read all about § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u222	I'll give it to you in writing. Why is this editorial amendment necessary? Because under the law, the Minister is not an authority on land ownership. The Land Property Authority is only the Municipal Agriculture Office. Under the Law, the Minister does not have the authority to revoke the decision of a municipal office. The Minister can only order a review of the decision of the municipal office, but not to repeal this decision because that authority does not appear. Here's the proposal in writing. [[Passing the proposal.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u223	Colleagues, please make proposals on the version of the Commission and not on the text of the importer. What you are saying, I do not find it in § 1 in the version of the Commission. [[Reference between the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova and the Chairman.]] You are proposing that the text be withdrawn from the decision of the municipal service of agriculture and then........................................................................................... is your proposal......................................................................................................................................................... If he doesn't have jurisdiction for one, he doesn't have jurisdiction for the other. Any lines to that proposal? I won't. Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. None of the Commission's leadership, the minister gave no indication on Mrs. Ahmedova's proposal. How this House is going to vote is not clear to me. I put to the vote Mrs. Ahmedova's proposal in § 1, para. 7 the last sentence to finally drop the text cancels the decision of the municipal office of agriculture and instead of making it heard, the last words of this sentence should be recorded............................................................................................ to rewrite it............................................................................................................................................... We vote. They voted 97 MPs: 24, against 29, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u224	A proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The decisions of the municipal agriculture services under para. 4 t. 1 and 4 may be amended on the grounds set out in art. 14, para. 7 and at the request of the Minister of Agriculture and Food or of the interested parties within one year of their entry into force, but not later than three years after the entry into force of the compensation plan, as well as under the terms and conditions of art. 14, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u225	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the report. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u226	Proposal by the MP Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by In the case of lease contracts or leases under para. 1 or 5 for properties not wholly or partly within the current at the date of signature of the contract specialized layer under art. 5, para. 2 of Ordinance No 2 of 17 February 2015 on eligibility criteria for agricultural areas for support under area payment schemes and measures (GB, pcs. 15 from 2015), no payment is due at a rental price, respectively a rent payment for one business year from the conclusion of the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u227	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 3 on the report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u228	Proposal by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the Art. 24e. (1) Owners of orchards may acquire ownership rights on agricultural land from the State and municipal land fund at market prices after the end of 5 years of plantation and provided that they are: 1. created and enjoyed under a contract with the Minister of Agriculture and Food, respectively with the mayor of the municipality; 2. acquired through a privatisation transaction; 3. acquired by the organisations under § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. (2) Within 20 years of the acquisition of the right of ownership of the agricultural land under para. 1 no change can be made in their way of permanent use, and no change in their purpose for non-agricultural needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u229	Statements? Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u230	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would first like to assess the admissibility of this proposal, because such a text in the first vote is neither discussed nor included in the First Voting Bill. In no way have they been discussed, in principle, the first vote has not been adopted for.................................................................................................. The reasons for the First Voting Bill are neither a word nor a line with regard to this type of amendment. If you still decide to allow it to vote, I would like to say my opinion on this text. For the first time, colleagues, we have a precedent for the sale of land from the State Land Fund. So far, procedures have been completely different. The State Land Fund has a limited resource. It is created and exists to help land relations in terms of how the state regulates these relations. With this text, we open a large door that creates an opportunity to sell a state land fund. Because if the conditions are met, as recorded in this proposed article. 24e, very easily each one can acquire a state-owned land fund. How could that happen? As a territory which he chooses, an attractive land territory has planted certain orchards and the Law gives him authority after five years to become the owner. Once it becomes the owner, it can sell it to a second, to third parties and thus lose a state-owned land fund at the places that are most attractive and willing to acquire them. If this thing is admitted, be assured that the topic will pale in front of this text. This will become a precedent in which the state will lose many, owners who are close to the government, will be able to benefit under the mask of the fruit trees, because see what it says: If you create orchards, no matter what type, no matter what quality you create a garden in which you plant, but do not care for them, after the fifth year you can become owners, because the Law does not restrict you. The important thing is that you have created a garden, that you have changed the way you use it, and from there, the powers are yours. Right, yeah, it's called 20 years, they don't have the right to change the way of permanent use. However, once the owner has changed, even with these burdens, it is not written anywhere that he who has not complied with this provision that 20 years should not change the way of permanent use, he does not tolerate any sanctions. What is the point of this text if there are no sanctions? This means that someone has done their work or lobbying for someone for such crops as they currently have, or for those who want to acquire them. I'm going back to my original statement. Madam President, if this text is inadmissible, I must not continue to debate on it, because, in my opinion, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u231	Replies to Mrs. Ahmedova's statement? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u232	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, you were at the beginning of the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food when the Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture said it was a few thousand acres, so we cannot talk at all about the size of the euros that you are quoting here first. Secondly, attractive agricultural lands have long been replaced. Only areas that are suitable for agriculture and not for any other activity remain in order to abuse this possibility of buying, which we are talking about. And one more thing. Since you had to leave the Commission earlier, in § 11 of the Report we are going to see today, there are sanctions recorded, which are the three-fold amount of the amount paid for the acquisition of the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u233	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u234	Dear Mr. Hristov, I did not have to leave the Commission. I left it on purpose because when examining this Draft Law at second reading, led by the Commission, it was such that it was not clear what it was about and what we were de facto voting on. That's why I left her. Although it was announced in the Chamber that the deadlines should not be shortened, they were shorter again, there were some things being done in haste, so I left the Commission, not because I had a job, but because it was not being conducted like people. With regard to whether these doors are opened, which I am talking about, time will tell. I'm sure it's done purposefully, that it's lobbyist, and in time, I hope I'm not right, but I'm sure my words will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u235	Mrs. Bachvarova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u236	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Following what Mrs. Ahmedova started as a topic, I would also like to note that this text first appears in our legislation when we allow the State Land Fund to be sold. So far there have been replacements it is true, but the State Land Fund has even increased as a result of these replacements. I speak as statistics, which there are in the Ministry of Agriculture. It is noticeable that in this way we benefit a group of farmers, those who have already created orchards and are not several thousand acres, but according to the information that came out in the Commission, are 31,000 acres and only concerns the State Land Fund. Here the introduction of the word "municipality" shows that we are expanding the fan of municipalities, which have anyway the legal opportunity to sell land through a decision of their municipal councils. This concerns only the State Land Fund, which we will therefore give the opportunity to buy. We have put a few questions to the Commission. Market price. What's the market price? Can you tell me? There is no market price in Bulgaria. This means that if we go back to the regulation that the Ministry has for market prices, you can see at the time of Miroslav Naydenov how much the land was valued, which was sold through bonds. In Dobrich the land was 560 BGN, provided that the market price is 1400 BGN. What are we talking about? A market price, the way it is recorded, cannot be determined. I have other questions. For the most part, the orchards that are created have a technological term of use, if we are talking about plantations that are for production and not small family gardens, of 10 years. You say 20 all of a sudden. What are we doing? On the tenth or eleventh year we wait nine years to use the land, we scrap the crops? Because 20 years is nuts, hazelnuts, almonds. Everything else has a technology deadline of 10 years. You say here all of a sudden 20 years, if you don't... So, 25 totals, there is no permanent plantation that stands for 25 years. Twenty-five years there is no plantation to give, to produce, so that it can be profitable. Please! There is no point in opening the textbooks to talk about the topic: Who is the technology period for a permanent plantation. And why only orchards? All the other groups will say: "Well, give her the pastures and meadows, give us this, give us that. " They are of extended duration. I would very much like this proposal to be withdrawn from importers simply because it sets a precedent and creates a truly privileged position for one group over all others. There must be other opportunities to support those who have made an investment. This investment is most often also in programs, but not in this way to make gifts with the purchase of land from the State Land Fund, which are comatose in most cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u237	- What's the line? First line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u238	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, would you explain how the producer of the woodwork could be in a better situation than the owner of the land, given that he must have created and used under a contract with the Minister, respectively the mayor of the municipality, this massive? If it is under such a contract, it will have such a contract until the end of the fruitage period. If, for example, he planted a apricot garden, the contract would be for 15 years. He'll pay his rent. What good would it do him to produce the orchards that he became the owner? I don't think it's gonna help him. Thus, becoming the owner, he can at any time resold the garden. Thus, instead of increasing the fruit trees, we can reduce them or become more of a category of land purchase and sales, not producers of fruit plants.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, there is no economic logic. There is no way that one who has created an orchard has the opportunity to buy the garden, because such efficiency and profitability in agriculture will not, including in orchards. The contract is a fact. He's 20 or 25 years old. During this time, each year is paid accordingly, the price that is fixed for hire. This is about something else. I'm the owner, but I'm going to sell it to someone who has the resources and, accordingly, receiving this land, he can in a certain period of time really get a higher difference than what he's created, thanks to the resale. It's not limited. We didn't limit that. We have given the farmer, but it appears new and says: "I want the whole garden together with the contracts. The change of ownership is a fact, despite the fact that further we have it in three times. So what? Twenty years the land won't be used. Surely I have to tell you, there is no economic logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u241	Thank you. Speaking of which, Kircho Karagyozov. After him the national representative Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, then the national representative Ivan Stankov. Mr. Karagyozov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! As you have already understood from the statement of the colleague, BSP left Bulgaria will not support this text. For me personally, this is definitely a lobbying text. Absolutely. Here we are offered circumvention of the Law in general order in which the sale of state municipal properties is carried out. We all know that this is done by auctioning certain procedures. Here we are offered an extremely different order, i.e. one condition, if there are permanent crops and it is exactly orchards, to circumvent the general order of sale on one condition that this garden exists for five years. At what cost? He's at the market. However, as the colleague said, who will determine exactly this price, that is the market price, it is very difficult to answer. Personally, it is a very interesting proposal at the second point for properties acquired through a privatisation deal. Privatizations have long ended and I am very interested in what this privatisation deal will be like on an orchard, as surely the transactions were made 15 years ago, and I do not know how many years ago the plantations were planted. They will probably no longer be such that they are actually used and at some point we will give the right to the one who has purchased some abandoned gardens, as is the case under § 12, to acquire the property in a different order from the common order. Therefore, I believe that it is normal either to withdraw the proposal or not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u243	Thank you, Mr. Karagyozov. - What's the line? I don't see any MPs wishing to make a line. Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, please come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman! I would like to make a statement because this is acceptable to us as a proposal. Moreover, we abstained in the Commission because there was no text to propose any sanctions in relation to the proposal, as Mr. Rumen Hristov made this proposal in § 7. We fully support this. Because, colleagues, I wonder how long Bulgaria will be a country that was first in fruit and vegetables production, how long will we continue to import fruit and vegetables from neighbouring countries when we have incredible conditions for developing fruit and vegetables in our country? According to the latest data about 70 - 80% of the fruits we import into Bulgaria are from imports and let us give these people the opportunity to produce in our country and develop the fruit industry, because this is a reasonable act and for the first time the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is committed to doing so and to enable people who are willing to develop the fruitage to do so. From the point of view of the fact that there must be really very serious means involved, we cannot make any restriction on these people because there is a need for investment for irrigation systems, for buildings, for warehouses. Please, if we want to develop agriculture in Bulgaria, we must support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u246	Dear Mrs. Petrova, you have not understood what this is about. It's not about the orchards, it's about... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, can you calm down?! [[Radio.]] It's about the State Land Fund being able to sell. If you, a representative of the Patriotic Front, do not protect the Bulgarian land, but allow it to be sold, this means that you should not call yourself this way at all, because a wise man says that money is temporary and the land is eternal. And the eternal land that is state, you must protect it, not in the way you propose: we will help the fruit trees, it will become private property, which will be sold several times and thus become brokers of state land, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u248	Dear Mrs. Petrova, this is not about the orchards, this is about the State Land Fund. The State Land Fund does not have 1 million. Dekara, 99% of the land is private. Why does he have to be sold too? Its purpose is not to be sold, but to be used most efficiently and even when landing takes place, it takes place in the State Land Fund. Why does it have to be for sale? This is not like the forest fund, where 75% is your state, but twenty and how much there is private land. It's private land here. The investment was made. The landlord who made the investment has a 20-year contract. He pays his rent every year, the state gets revenue. Why should it be sold, provided that the rules for sale are absolutely opaque?! You can see the sale of land by the State Land Fund in 2011 for what ridiculous amounts it was sold through compensatory mechanisms. This really is a robbery for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Third line? Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u250	If refugees start tomorrow, who are farmers and who are engaged in agricultural production from Moldova, from Besarabia and Ukraine, how will we land them, in which way, by selling all the state land, where will we get land? In general, when you think that way, this is the most true direction to think. There's no way to explain who invented it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u251	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u252	I would like to say that the main priority of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and what we have recorded in the government's programme is the use of land as intended. So these big investments that need to be made by the people who are going to work in these sectors, really in some way these people need to be motivated so that they are responsible for the tasks ahead of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u253	Thank you. For a statement the people representative Ivan Stankov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Angelov, I've already given the floor to Professor Angelov. Stankov, so please let me finish his speech and then. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Yes, but I'd already given the floor to Professor. Stankov. We can't interrupt the speech. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I was thinking a lot about the texts and initially I had the same reservations as Mrs. Ahmedova and Professor. Bachvarova. The most I could think about was the ability to provide property. At first, I really had such reservations, but in thinking and thinking about these texts, I came to the conclusion that the state is in the best hands of the land, and is it not possible to give it to people and really make use of it? Because the orchards in Bulgaria have reached the critical minimum, they are below 4%. We have leveled with the northernmost countries with Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Europe has about 6% orchards and neighbouring Greece has 28%. So we don't use the land the best way. I continue to have reservations about whether or not to be granted for purchase by people. Madam Minister, you and I and Mr. Hristov were in Israel. There we saw that the land was given for 49 years. Ninety-five percent of the land in Israel is state, only 5% has owners, but we work under other conditions, so it can be assumed that this part of the text is correct. About the duration of use. I think it's also correct because I've been doing a lot of fruiting. I have to tell you that for bone 25 years are already many, because they come from this age of active fertility, for seeds is normal age, and for nuts we know that they can be used for more than 100 years. I think if you make a little correction, and even if you let it go, it won't be a mistake. We of the ABB Parliamentary Group will support this proposal. I think it will be useful for our Bulgarian fruit farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u255	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Mr. Angelov, you wanted a procedure? [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] You're giving up. Here you go, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u256	Dear Mr. Stankov, while you were thinking about the text, you should have read it because [[laughs, excitement]] There it is said: the owners of orchards. The plantations, as recorded in the text, have already been created. This text will not contribute to the creation of new plantings because this is provided to owners of orchards, they have already been created. How are you going to make these fruit trees get more than they have right now? They have contracts up to the years of fruiting the species they planted. If they've planted seeds for 20 years, if they've planted other plantations by the year they get their fruit. Becoming owners, will we have more plants, or will we have more fruit production in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. For the second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u258	Honourable Professor. Stankov, with great inconvenience, I would like to give you some advice. If you don't understand something, text Ferry. She'll teach you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u259	Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u260	Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! I don't have any vague things. I've dealt with these problems a lot, and that's why I'm clearly saying what I'm thinking. I already told you about the property. I told you about the duration, too. What Mrs. Ahmedova says here is exactly what you wanted to tell me, I did not understand you, because I have read the text very well, saying that in the case of permanent crops created after the fifth year, these opportunities are provided. So they really are created. For five years, he's been persevering with the man who's going to apply for this property to grow these trees. From there on, if he's a good owner and if he wants to... It is very important that we also create offspring in our orchard. I can tell you, I have a lot of conversations with students. Agrarian faculties now come people who are very motivated and who can inherit the property. So I have complete clarity, and with a clear mind, I have expressed my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u262	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u263	For a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u264	She hasn't been mentioned!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u265	He's entitled to a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u266	I have a procedure before her!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u267	All right, let's let the people representative Julian Angelov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u268	I've had a 15-minute procedure! Please, sit down! [[To the MP Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u269	Just a moment, Mr. Angelov. Take your seat, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u270	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to explain to the MPs from the DPS that we are not in school, that we are not students, so that they can every time edify, teach us, explain to us how illiterate, stupid and all kinds of other things we are. This isn't a school, and at least we want you to be our teachers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u271	I didn't quite understand the procedure. Second procedure, come in, Mr. Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! I think there was a lot of comment on this point and a lot of comments came out of it. I propose an end to the debate procedure on the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u273	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the debate on this paragraph. They voted 83 MPs: 69, against 7, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u274	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u275	For a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from PF.]] Her name was mentioned!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u276	Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, unlike you, I have no claim to be a know-it-all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u277	Please, no such qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u278	I only speak on topics that I know of. If you really want a consultation on agriculture, I can give you my number.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u279	Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. In the manner of conduct, most likely...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u280	Dear Mr President, I think we have not once and twice explained in the Rules when the right to a personal explanation is envisaged. I didn't make a statement, I made a line. Moreover, I have in no way mentioned Mrs. Ahmedova's name. At the very least, it is obscene and unpleasant to conduct the transmission in the National Assembly. After all, I am family, Mrs. Ahmedova, I have three children. [[Laughter]] Somehow... Have shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u281	Mr. Bayraktarov, I understand. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to... [[National Representative Ferryhan Ahmedova wants the floor.]] Mrs. Ahmedova, you've taken the floor several times. We're already in voting procedure. The procedure is not a personal explanation but a point of order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u282	Don't worry, Mr. Bayraktarov. I have a procedure. I just said I'd give you the phone for a consult. Don't worry. My procedure is as follows. Mr President, I very much ask that you be precise before putting this proposal to the vote, because it is not, in my view, acceptable to look at the second reading of texts which have not been read at first reading, have not been voted in principle, which is why I find it unacceptable. I'm asking you to make it your responsibility to put it to the table.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u283	Dear colleagues, the debate is closed. We are going to vote on § 4, in which art. 4 is created. 24e, proposed by the Commission. Voting mode. Vote 84 MPs: 68 against 16, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the next texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u284	Under Paragraph 2, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer, as para. 4 is reflected in a new § 16 and proposes the following version of § 2, which becomes § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 27a: Art. 27a (1) The owners of buildings and facilities from the property of the terminated organisations under § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall owe amounts for the use of the land until the acquisition of the right of ownership of the built and adjacent areas. (2) The persons who have acquired ownership of the buildings and facilities under para. 1 to 9 February 2011, due to the amount of land use after that date. (3) The persons who acquired ownership of the buildings or facilities after 9 February 2011 shall owe the amount of the land to be used from the date of acquisition of the buildings or facilities. (4) In the event of disposal of the ownership of the buildings and facilities under para. 1 a document on amounts paid for land use shall be submitted until the date of disposal of the buildings or facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u285	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 5, in which art. 27a, as reported by the President of the Commission. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u286	Paragraph 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 6 the words from those appointed by order of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Food shall be replaced by the officials appointed by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and by officials appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u287	Statements? I can't see. We vote § 6. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u288	Paragraph 4. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 2 (a) and (b) does not support it under point (c) of paragraph 2 of this Article. 2 letter (b) which reads: (b) areas that are fertilized by manure shall be allocated to users who have a well-established fertilization plan by the municipal agriculture office, provided that they have registered in the municipal agriculture office their legal grounds for areas. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37c The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 7 sentence first, the words "transit budget account" in "the foreign funds account" shall be replaced by "the foreign funds account" of "the bank." 2. In para. 15 in the text before t. 1 after the words "2007 " 2013 ".........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u289	Thank you. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Part of the proposal is accepted. It is related to the application of art. 37c. Translated into Bulgarian this means that the service agreements that are being carried out are those that have concluded contracts under the Rural Development Programme have the opportunity to receive exactly the same arrays that they have previously used since the contracts are one year old. The fact is that with the change currently being made, the version proposed by the Commission, some of the objections that the owners and users included in this measure have so far been satisfied. Because the proposed version also includes the "Agro-environment and climate" programme from the new Programme 2014-2020. What is dissatisfied, although there has been a debate in the Commission, is for areas that are fertilized with animal manure and, accordingly, the requirement and procedure in the way in which they will be checked. I must tell you that this is a European directive which requires all farmers who have establishments to use these waste accordingly in a way that does not pollute the environment. This is one way in which they can carry out their activities in accordance with the requirement of European regulations. In addition, I have to tell you that in Romania, where livestock farming is much better developed and has shown exceptional rise in recent years respectively, since 2016, fees have been introduced, where municipalities have to make such sites to store these waste, accordingly a fee is paid for it. very please really pay attention to this problem for the business sector, because as of 1 January 2016, we have to apply the regulation, and this is one of the possible ways for farmers to solve their issues. Once again, the ownership of the land is in no way affected, but only concerns us with the service agreements, if possible, in the same places within 4 or 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u291	Thank you. A line? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 30 against 37, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 7 in the version of the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u292	Paragraph 5. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 and the following 1. In para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of the words of the annual average rent payments for the land or for the municipality shall be deleted, the word "declare' shall be replaced by "announced' and the word "public' shall be replaced by "public'. 2. In para. The second sentence of the sentence of Article 3 (2) shall be deleted. 3. In para. The second sentence is created: "To the right-holders who raise bovine animals intended for the production of meat and bovine animals of local (autochton) breeds are allocated up to 15 decares for 1 animal unit in a first to seventh category and up to 30 decares for 1 animal unit in an eight to 10th category. 4. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The mayor of the municipality shall appoint a commission which shall determine the area necessary for each candidate under the order of para. 4 and distributes the properties for each land. In the case of distribution, there are candidates who, until the date of distribution, have used the relevant properties under expired contracts. Other non-allocated properties shall be distributed in ascending order starting with persons holding at least animal units. The Commission shall draw up a report on the final distribution of the properties in the case of the required areas by 1 May. 5. In para. 10 sentence 3 is created: "In the case of an advantage distribution, there are candidates who, by the date of distribution, used the properties concerned under expired contracts.' 6. In para. The 12th sentence is first amended as follows: On the basis of the minutes of the committees under para. 6 and 10 the mayor of the municipality, respectively, the director of the Regional Directorate of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture, entered contracts for rent or rent at a price determined under the market mechanism. 7. The creation of para. 15: In the case of contracts for rent or lease of pastures, measures and meadows from the state and municipal land fund, which do not fully or partially fall within the current one at the date of signature of the contract, the specialized layer under art. 5, para. 2 of Decree No 2 of 17 February 2015 on eligibility criteria for agricultural areas for support under land payment schemes and measures, no rent price shall be payable, respectively a rent payment for one business year from the conclusion of the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u293	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u294	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In general, we support the text of the importer and also the version of the Commission. However, it still makes an illogical impression and again say a lobbyist proposal related to changing the criteria. Why? Take a look at this. 3: The persons producing bovine animals intended for the production of meat and bovine animals from local (autochtonous) breeds,... Why just them? These are 3,000 animals in Bulgaria - three breeds. Why not make a correction for all autochtonic breeds? How do you explain why a correction of 30 acres per animal is made for this category and for all the other 20 acres? First, that it enters as a proposal between first and second readings, does not concern all livestock farmers. My request is that when such proposals are made, it be taken into account to be in the interests of the whole industry and not only of a particular group. There are only ten farms. Well, find another way to help them if you don't want the other autochtonic breeds to be supported by a difference of regulations in relation to all other animals. [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] Yeah, we're talking about autochtonics first. It only says autochtonic cattle. Why only autochtonic cattle? I propose, as an amendment to the vote, for the autochtonic breeds, which are mainly in mountain and semi-mountain areas: "Manufacturing of meat and local (autochton) breeds. I want you to get out of here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u295	It's out of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u296	For the production of meat, we have neither culture nor breeds. Anyone who does not produce milk says it is therefore for meat production. Absolutely no effectiveness of this livestock, but anyway, we should try it this way. I demand that all autochtonic breeds enter this regulation that is offered for cattle.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u297	To produce meat from local (autochton) breeds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u298	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u299	Thank you, I understand, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Is there anyone else who would like to make another statement? I won't. Dear Members of Parliament, I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 8, with the editorial amendment made...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u300	First the amendment!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u301	In Professor's proposal. Bachvarova in t. 3 drops only the word "beast" from the Commission's proposal. Please vote on this proposal first. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 6. The proposal with the so-made amendment is accepted. The proposal made by Prof. Bachvarova accepted. We are going to vote on the whole paragraph with the amendment of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u302	In § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal referred to in points 1, 2 and 3, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in a new § 10, and under point (c) of that paragraph. Four and five are withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 10. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, i.e. 3 is reflected in a new § 10 and proposes the following version of § 6, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following 1. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 12ss and 12s; (b) point 2 is repealed. 2. In para. 3 the words..13 and 14......................... 13 and The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... A new article shall be created. 37 m: Art. 37m (1) The mayor of the municipality, respectively the director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture, shall carry out checks annually for compliance with the conditions of art. 37th, para. 4 under the contracts concluded for rent or lease of pastures, measures and meadows of the state and municipal land fund. (2) Compliance with the conditions under para. 1 shall be established on the basis of an official reference prepared and provided by BABBH for all registered on 1 February of the current year in the Integrated Information System of BABBH: 1. establishments; 2. owners or users of registered establishments; 3. pasture farm animals at the establishments. (3) The reference under para. 2 shall be validated by an order of the Executive Director of BABBH and shall be published on the Agency's website. (4) Where the checks are carried out, it shall be established that: 1. in the establishment the number of registered pasture animals is more than 30 percent lower than their number to the conclusion of the lease or lease contracts, the contracts are changed and the area is determined in accordance with the percentage reduction in the number of animals; 2. the establishment has no registered pasture farm animals, rental contracts or leases shall be terminated by the mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. 3. there has been a change of the conditions under art. 37th, para. 1, the lease or lease contracts shall be terminated by the mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. 4. the registration of the establishment in the respective land is deleted, the leases or leases shall be terminated by the mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. (5) Rent or lease contracts under para. 1 shall not be regarded as a legal basis under art. 41, para. 1 of the Agricultural Aid Act, when carrying out the checks, it is established that there are grounds for their termination. (6) In the cases under para. 5 the respective municipal agriculture office shall write off the properties from the register of leases and rent contracts under art. 49, para. 1, t. 6 of Ordinance No 49 of 5 November 2004 on the maintenance of the map of the restored property (SG...) and informs: 1. the mayor of the municipality of the property of the municipal land fund; 2. the Director of the Regional Directorate of the State Land Fund. (7) Alinea 4, t. 1, para. 5 and 6 shall not apply to any part or all agricultural pasture animals registered in the Integrated Information System of the BABBH which are affected by a severe natural disaster or epizots.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u303	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 6, which shall become § 9, in the version of the Commission, as well as the new § 10. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, against 2, no abstentions. Mr. Christov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u304	Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 42, 43 and 44: Art. 42. (1) The Mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, who did not order the checks under art. 37 m, para. 1 is punished with a fine from 5000 to 10 000 leva. (2) The mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, who did not terminate or amend a lease or rent contract under the conditions of art. 37m, is punished with a fine from 5000 to 10 000 leva. Art. 43. On a person who, in violation of art. 24d, para. 2 changes the way of permanent use or the purpose of agricultural land, a fine or penalty shall be imposed in the three-fold amount of the price paid for the acquisition of the right of ownership determined under art. 24d, para. 1. Art. 44. (1) The violations of art. 42 shall be established by acts of officials designated by the district governor at the location of the property. (2) The violations of art. 43 shall be established by acts of officials appointed by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, respectively by the mayor of the municipality at the location of the property. (3) Penalty decrees for violations of art. 42 and 43 are issued by the district governor at the location of the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u305	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Statements? We're closing the debate. We are going to vote on the version of § 7 by importer, which becomes § 11. Vote 85 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u306	Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraph 2c of the Additional Provisions establishes para. 3: Within the meaning of this law, a livestock establishment is an establishment registered under the Veterinary Activity Act in which pasture farm animals are kept continuously. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In § 17, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) is added at the end by the order of art. 27 a.k.a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u307	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 12 and § 13, supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. Mr. Christov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u309	We vote on the name of the subdivision supported by the importer. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u310	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) The proceedings of applications for the acquisition of property rights in the buildings and facilities of the terminated organisations under § 12 of the Transitional and Final Rules shall be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Law, initiated but not completed until the entry into force of this Act. (2) Unfinished proceedings shall be those where the application under para. 1 in the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, including those under which an order has been issued to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, but until the entry into force of this law no contract for purchase and sale has been concluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u311	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8, which shall become § 14, supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u312	Under § 9 there is a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with Article 9. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... (1) Producers who have entered into leases or leases on pastures, meria and meadows of the state and municipal land fund before 24 February 2015 shall be obliged by 1 February 2016 to bring the contracts into line with the requirements of art. 37th, para. 1 and 4. (2) The users who are approved in the direction under art. 3, p. 3 of Ordinance No 4 of 24 February 2015 on the implementation of measure 11 of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. (DV, No. ...) have concluded leases or leases on pastures, meria and meadows of the state and municipal land fund before 24 February 2015 and all their kept pasture animals and pastures are approved for support, are obliged by 1 February 2016 to bring the contracts into line with the requirements of art. 37th, para. 1 subject to the ratio for a minimum of 0,15 animal unit per hectare, irrespective of the category. (3) The contracts for rent or lease of pastures, measures and meadows from the state and municipal land fund which are not aligned within the term under para. 1 or 2 shall be terminated by the mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. (4) The Mayor of the municipality, respectively the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture, who did not terminate the contracts under the conditions of para. 3, is punished with a fine from 5000 to 10 000 leva. (5) The acts establishing the infringements under para. 4 shall be composed of officials appointed by the district governor on the location of the property and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the district governor on the location of the property. (6) Rent or lease contracts under para. 3 shall not be regarded as a legal basis under art. 41, para. 1 of the Agricultural Aid Act, when carrying out the checks, it is established that there are grounds for their termination. (7) In the cases under para. 6 the respective municipal agriculture office shall write off the properties from the register of leases and rent contracts under art. 49, para. 1, t. 6 of Ordinance No 49 of 5 November 2004 on the maintenance of the map of the restored property and informs: 1. the mayor of the municipality of the property of the municipal land fund; 2. the Director of the Regional Directorate of the State Land Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u313	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u314	Just for the record, so there won't be any confusion in § 15, para. 1 The first word is "Users" and the speaker read "Manufacturers."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u315	In § 15, para. 1 The first word is the Users. Statements under § 15? I won't. I put to the vote the amendment of § 9, which becomes § 15. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. With fresh strength Mrs. Karayancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u316	The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... The owners of buildings and facilities of the property of the terminated organisations under Paragraph 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions acquired after the entry into force of this Act, when applying for the acquisition of property rights on the built and adjacent areas to the buildings and facilities, shall provide a document stating that the amount due for use of the land has been paid until the date of disposal of the buildings or facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u317	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 16. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u318	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 10, but proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u319	I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 10, which is reflected in a new § 13. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u320	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u321	We are voting on the Commission's proposals from § 11 to § 14 by importer. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u322	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In the law on the restoration of ownership of forests and land from the forest fund (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 2 the word "use" is replaced by "use." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. A sentence 2 is created: "The decisions of the municipal agriculture services in relation to the restoration of ownership and the payment of the owners are signed by the head of the service, by the employees appointed by the Director of the Regional Agriculture Directorate' and by the officials appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 para. 10 is amended as follows: In the event of the detection of infringements under this law and its implementing rules, new circumstances or new written evidence essential for the judgment under para. 6, within one year of detection of infringements, new circumstances or new written evidence, but no later than three years after the decision of the Municipal Agriculture Office under para. 5, the Minister of Agriculture and Food on his own initiative or at the request of the interested parties revokes the decision of the municipal agriculture office or orders the municipal agriculture office to amend it. This row shall not apply where the same land is subject to a judgment. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the word "use" is replaced by "use." 5. In § 9, para. 2 of the transitional and final provisions, the word "use" is replaced by "use."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u323	Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission, which shall propose an amendment to § 15, which shall become § 21. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u324	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u325	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 16 to 23. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u326	Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 30: 30. The Agricultural Support Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 33 is The data in the system for identification of agricultural parcels shall be updated annually by deciphering (computer reading) of an up-to-date digital orthophoto card, by performing special field checks on reference parcels and by reflecting the results of on-the-spot checks under art. 37. Specialized field inspections of reference parcels shall be carried out after notification to the beneficiaries under conditions and in order laid down by the ordinance under art. 30, para. 6................................................ 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33a, para. 2 sentence first, after the words supplied annually, the "deciphering (computer reading) of an up-to-date digital orthophoto card shall be added by performing special field checks on reference parcels and by reflecting the results of on-the-spot checks under art. 37. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The Minister of Agriculture and Food may, by 1 March, on the basis of a request from an owner or a user of a legal basis of agricultural land, approve by order the exclusion of properties from a layer of.. Permanent grasslands...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1. the property does not fall within the scope of the protected areas under art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 of the Biodiversity Act and provided that another area in the holding is respectively converted into permanent grassland, and/or 2. the transformation or ploughing of permanent grassland shall be carried out on the basis of an approved project under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 or 2014-2020, and/or 3. the property is included in approved by the regional environmental inspection and leads investment intention, and/or 4. the mode of permanent use of a property covered by a layer of permanent grassland is changed to other than pastures, merri, meadows or other permanent grasslands prior to the issue of the final order by the Minister of Agriculture and Food under art. 33a, para. 2 to approve the specialized layer, and/or 5. the method of permanent use of the physical block of the system of identification of agricultural parcels in which the property falls is not permanently grasslandd according to the data available in the system of identification of agricultural parcels as of 2014 and the property does not fall within the scope of the protected areas under art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 of the Biodiversity Act, and/or 6. there is an effective decision to change the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs issued in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Agricultural Land Conservation Act. (b) the creation of para. 5. The order for the authorisation of transformation or ploughing of permanent grasslands shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 30, para. 6................................................ 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 The word "use" is replaced by the word "use."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u327	Statements? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u328	Mr President, honourable Members, we generally adopt the proposed paragraph and the version that has been made. I would like to draw attention to a fact relating to the proposal under para. 2, where it is said that the Minister of Agriculture and Food may, by 1 March, on the basis of a request of a owner or a user of a legal basis, approve, by order, a change of the property from a layer of permanent grasslands to something different. However, it should be known that in the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land art. 25 says that agricultural land which does not belong to citizens, legal entities or the state is municipal property. The ownership of the municipalities of the meres and pastures is public and can be declared private municipal property when changing the purpose of the meres and pastures under the Law on Municipal Property. Thus, as the text is written, the previous text has been suspended to the owner, which means that this is a private owner, but with the addition of a user it means that by order of the Minister it is possible to convert public property, especially to municipalities, because in the area of the permanent grasslands, these are usually measures, meadows and pastures of municipalities and they are public property. Thus written the text shows that by order of the Minister it is possible to convert these areas, such as e.g. 2 says: the transformation or ploughing of permanent grassland is carried out on the basis of an approved project under the Rural Development Programme. I suggest in order to be precise, if you agree that the property is public and it is such a... [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u329	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u330	We are only talking about the permanent grassland, but in order to refine the text of the law on agricultural land, with the exception of public property, because, as it is written in general, it means that all who enter the area can be converted by order of the Minister from public to private property. The proposal I am making is to add after the agricultural land, with the exception of public property. The text hasn't been corrected. I have also put this issue in question during the discussion in the Commission, but, I see, there is no change in speech. However I read it, the permanent grasslands for the most part are measures, meadows and pastures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u331	Where do you suggest a change, Professor? Bachvarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u332	I propose in para. 2 after the words "legal basis of agricultural land' to be added to the list "with the exception of public property', continues to approve "of agricultural land'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u333	- What's the line? I won't. We vote on the proposal made by the MP Svetla Bachvarova to add to para. 2 after the agricultural land of the expression "with the exception of public property'. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 20, against 45, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text edited by the Commission of the importer for § 24 which, on the Commission's report, becomes § 30. Please vote. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u334	Under § 25, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 31. Under § 26, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 32. Under § 27, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 33. Under § 28, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 34. Under § 29, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 35. By § 30, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u335	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 25 to 30, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission and shall be numbered in its report from 31 to 36 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 31 to 36, including the Commission's report, have been adopted and thus the Law at second reading. The next item on the agenda is: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR MANAGEMENT AND FUNCTIONATION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY PROTECTION SYSTEM. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It was adopted on 11 March 2015. It was adopted on the first vote on 20 May 2015. We are now continuing after it was examined on 24 July 2015, with art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u336	Under art. 9 has a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. The Security Council shall: 1. analyse the state of the national security protection system, prepare assessments and propose solutions and actions regarding: (a) the capabilities of the national security protection system to counter threats, including crisis management; (b) the effectiveness of the main activities of the public authorities and structures under art. 3, para. 1; (c) consistency and coordination in the implementation of the main activities between state authorities and structures under art. 3, para. 1; (d) the compatibility and integration of state bodies and structures under art. 3, para. 1; (e) the compatibility and integration of state bodies and structures under art. 3, para. 1 with institutions and collective security mechanisms in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union; (f) the implementation of the designated national priorities, main objectives and tasks; (g) ensuring and protecting information security against violations; 2. coordinate the implementation of the policy for the protection of national security by the state authorities and structures under art. 3, para. 1; 3. assist the Council of Ministers in decision-making and in exercising its powers in the management of national security protection activities and the allocation of necessary resources; 4. assist the interaction between state authorities and structures under art. 3, para. 1 in the performance of their tasks and activities; 5. propose to the Prime Minister or the Council of Ministers specific measures and tasks to limit risks, counter threats and protect national security and crisis management; 6. propose to the Council of Ministers annual objectives and priorities in the field of national security protection; 7. propose to the Council of Ministers a draft annual report on the state of national security; 8. propose to the Council of Ministers a draft national communication strategy for informing citizens in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u337	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 9. Vote 75 MPs: 67, no objection, abstention 8. Article 9 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u338	Under art. 10 has a proposal of MPs Mihov and Tsochev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 t. One down. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, t. 4 after the words "Acceptable decisions".. is added to the draft proposals to the Council of Ministers for the exercise of its powers in the management of the activities of protection of national security and allocation of the necessary resources...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) For the performance of its functions under art. 9 The Security Council shall: 1. prepare analyses, forecasts, reports and other information materials; 2. use expert opinions from different areas; 3. cooperate with state bodies and organisations, with bodies of local self-government and legal entities, as well as with similar structures in other countries and international organisations; 4. adopt decisions. (2) The members of the council shall provide the information necessary for their activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u339	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MPs Mihov and Tsochev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 82 MPs: 12, 20, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text edited by the Commission for art. 10. Vote 73 MPs: 66, no objection, abstention 7. Article 10 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u340	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, before we proceed to the next text, put to the vote Mr. Samandov's admission to the House of Mr. Samandov's Advisor to the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u341	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Lazarov for admission to the Chamber. They voted 73 MPs: 65, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Samandov to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u342	Proposal of the National Representative Milen Mihov in art. 11, para. 2 to acquire the following version: In carrying out its activities, the Security Council shall be assisted by a secretariat which is an autonomous structural unit in the administration of the Council of Ministers. The number of staff at the Secretariat, the names of the posts, the minimum level of education, the minimum rank and/or professional experience, the type of relationship, other requirements for taking up the post, and the minimum and maximum remuneration for each position shall be determined by an act of the Prime Minister. The total number of staff at the Secretariat shall be outside the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Miho Mihov and Kiril Tsochev: In Article 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is amended as follows: In carrying out its activities as a centre for analysis, management and control, the Security Council shall be assisted by an independent specialized structure in the administration of the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The Security Council shall be represented by the President. (2) In carrying out its activities, the Security Council shall be assisted by a secretariat which shall be an autonomous structural unit in the administration of the Council of Ministers. (3) Representatives of the persons referred to in Article may participate in the work of the Secretariat. 8, para. 3, p. 1 s 4 et c. 7... 10. (4) Information on the activities of the Security Council and its Secretariat shall be published on the website of the Council of Ministers, subject to the regulatory requirements for the protection of classified information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u343	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u344	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal for editing of art. 11, para. 2 is motivated by the fact that security Council officials will have information with a high degree of confidentiality. They'll handle classified documents, analytical materials. These people must be protected with a certain degree of confidentiality for their work in their persona. In the Rules of Procedure for the work of the Council of Ministers, in art. 54, para. 1 The total number and distribution of administrative units shall be provided for in Annex 3. That is, by accepting the creation of a new unit in the structure of the Council of Ministers, the number of employees must be indicated in this table. We understand that even the number of employees in this unit represents information with certain confidentiality in this Council. Again by virtue of this Rules of Procedure in Section VI of the Specialized Administration, the tasks, competences and functions of this Security Council should be described. That is why we offer the intended text of para. 2 to be supplemented by two sentences that the number of employees, their requirements, their posts, remuneration shall be determined by an act of the Prime Minister and that their number shall not be specified in the corresponding Rules of Procedure. Thus these people will be protected, their legal and factual status, and should be guaranteed by a certain interest of foreign intelligence and foreign interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u345	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 17 against 14, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MPs Mihov and Tsochev, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 16 against 10, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 11. Vote 79 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 8. Article 11 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u346	Under art. 12 there is a proposal of the MP Miho Mihov, Kiril Tsochev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 3 the text in his absence by a member of the Security Council expressly authorised by him and the paragraph to be amended as follows: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 in para. 3 words in his absence by a member of the Security Council expressly authorised by him to be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 of the subspn. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The Security Council shall hold regular and extraordinary meetings. (2) Regular meetings shall be held at least once every three months. They shall be convened by a decision of the Prime Minister. (3) The extraordinary meetings shall be convened by a decision of the Prime Minister, in the event of important circumstances affecting national security and requiring immediate decisions and measures of the Security Council's competence. (4) At least three quarters of members shall be present for the meetings. (5) The Security Council shall adopt internal rules for the organisation and holding of its meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u347	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u348	In a nutshell. Our proposal, which is written down as not supported by the Commission, is eventually incorporated into art. 12, proposed by the Commission. We had done it for that because in para. 3 We are talking about an extraordinary meeting of the Security Council, triggered by important circumstances affecting national security and requiring immediate solutions and measures. For this reason, we cannot imagine that under such circumstances the Prime Minister will be absent and replaced by any other, because this was the original design of the text. That is why we have offered such an opportunity to fall. But at the end of the day, al. 3 I think it is in line with our proposal, so, in my opinion, a correction must be made, that the Commission actually supports our proposal, because it already exists in the final version of art. 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u349	Are you withdrawing him?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u350	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u351	Yeah, once it's in the main text, you withdraw it. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MPs Mihov and Tsochev, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: 15 against 7, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal has been withdrawn as it has found its place in the main text. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for the text of the importer for art. 12. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. Article 12 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u352	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u353	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 13 and 14, which are supported by the committee. Vote 88 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 5. The texts of the importer as Articles 13 and 14 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u354	Under art. 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov in art. 15, para. 1, 2 and 3, the words "Research Community" shall be replaced by "Bord of the intelligence community." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) As part of the Security Council, an intelligence community shall function, which shall be composed of the Secretary-General of the Security Council, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior and the Heads of the State Agency of National Security. (2) The intelligence community may, on its own initiative, draw up thematic or generalized reports on various national security issues, make proposals to the Security Council of the Council of Ministers and prepare proposals to the Prime Minister for amendments and amendments to the regulations. (3) Other senior executives from different ministries and departments shall be included in the intelligence community if necessary. (4) The Secretary of the Security Council shall report to the Prime Minister the documents drawn up under para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u355	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u356	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, the draft law in the section art. 15 does not correspond to the National Security Strategy. You can check that out. It was developed and previously adopted by the GERB government in the first term. The idea of an intelligence community is marked. To put it mildly, it's strange how the intelligence community will be part of the Council?! In light of the circumstances, as a result, the head of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers, that is, the prime minister, the prime minister, becomes the head of the intelligence community or something like the head of intelligence. Can you imagine that in other countries? Is it true in the United States of America? Mr. Tsvetanov, is President Obama head of the United States Intelligence? Intelligence itself as a term, and as a logic, it is by acquiring information about the opponent to achieve national security. The text thus proposed creates a coliseum in the activities of intelligence and very much reminds the text of an immortal phrase which was neither said for the first time nor last by Stalin. It's: I'm my own scout. Perhaps in this text we should recall that exactly in the period 1940 to 22 June 1941. 90 warnings of operation "Barbarosa" Stalin on this principle has been rejected as untenable. A vivid example of a scout's nightmare. That's exactly what you guys are doing with this text. Obviously you do, apparently you're going to vote art. 15. That's good, but what does the intelligence community do? In the proposed texts under art. 15, para. 2 of the project is indicated that they will draw up thematic or generalized reports on their own initiative. That is to say, he writes...... and drafts...................... and Then why is it an intelligence community? Alinea 3 provides for senior executives from different ministries and departments to be attracted to the intelligence community. Guys, this is ridiculous, this is ridiculous! In my opinion, the aim must be to provide the Security Council with the Council of Ministers to propose to the Council of Ministers, which to entrust security and public order services with what priorities to have, where to direct their efforts, what information to collect with a view to national security, prevention and response to the risks and threats in the whole of the changed circumstances, changes in the security environment. The text as a whole is contrary to the understanding of intelligence activities It is. I urge you not to support the acceptance of art. 15 under the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u357	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u358	Dear colleagues, just a few sentences. It is good to know the regulations, especially when we are MPs. It's good to know the Constitution. Article 105, para. 2 of the Constitution states: The Council of Ministers is responsible for public order and security in the country. What illogical idea do you see from now on the Prime Minister leading?! Whatever you want to call it. This is practically the unit called the "Research Community" which will carry out the higher analysis of the information collected through the channels of the various operational services. This whole thing is so weird for me. I think we're wasting time. The lyrics are correct and let's vote on them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u359	That's what you think.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u360	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Krasimir Karakachanov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 21, against 5, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 15. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 5, abstention 5. Article 15 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u361	Article 16? a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The activities of the Secretariat of the Security Council shall be managed and organised by a Secretary appointed by the Prime Minister. (2) A person shall be appointed as secretary who shall: 1. has only Bulgarian citizenship; 2. there is a higher education with an educational-qualification degree. 3. hold 10 years internship in the authorities and structures of the national security protection system; 4. has been granted permission to access qualified information with a classification level.................................................................................................................... (3) The Secretary shall organise and carry out the exchange of information relating to the activities of the Security Council and the Intelligence Community. (4) The Secretary shall organise the coordination of the Security Council with state bodies and organisations, with local self-government bodies, with legal entities, as well as with related structures in other countries and international organisations. (5) The Secretary shall appoint the expert opinions under art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 for the needs of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u362	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 16 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. Article 16 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u363	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u364	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three, as well as this text for art. 17 supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 4. The name of Chapter 3 as well as the text of art. 17 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u365	The proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov is in art. 18 to drop para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u366	Statements? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u367	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In essence, the entire section of the crisis management is sewn directly for fullness of this bill. This section is practically entered into a Coliseum with the Law on the Protection of Disasters and in many of the texts. They are created by art. 18 situation centres and the main one in the Council of Ministers to coordinate them, but it is not clear what the goal is. For example, nothing is said about coordinating the counterterrorism system. In practice, not to give God, colleagues, but on July 18, 2012 at Burgas airport the case is an indicative example. The whole government spilled over there and everybody was in charge and filmed on TV. Mr. Tsvetanov, do you remember this case? Who will make decisions in case the teams in the field ask: "Do we act or not?" Should we neutralize the terrorists, shoot or not? This cannot be the response of either the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior or the Chairman of the DANS. And if you don't know, they'll be wandering around until we've consulted. Colleagues, this law is to report to the partners that we have it. As a result, many things concerning national security have been poured into it. At the same time, this Law, with the idea of being a framework, is actually unnecessary, does nothing to help regulate public relations relating to the sector. As a result, there will be a law very similar to the Law on the Advisory Council on National Security under the President's Law on a single page, without any need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u368	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Krasimir Karakachanov, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: 16 against 5, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 18, which is supported by the Commission. We vote on the text supported by the Commission of the importer for art.18. Vote 89 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 5. The text of art. 18 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u369	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. Chapter four: the Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u370	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 19 and 20 by importer supported by the Commission, both the name of the Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 87, none, abstention 7. Articles 19 and 20, as well as the name of
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u371	Under art. 21 has a proposal of Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u372	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 21, supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. Article 21 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u373	Under art. 22 there is an offer of the MP Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 The words everywhere the National Security Service shall be saved. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The National Assembly shall exercise control over the activities of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the National Security Service through its permanent commission. (2) The heads of the State Agency (National Security Agency), the State Agency (IAA), the Military Information Service (MI) and the National Security Service shall be obliged to appear at an invitation to the National Assembly or to its committees, in accordance with their subject-matter, and to provide their requested information in compliance with the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. (3) The heads of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence and the National Security Service shall present to the Council of Ministers annually by 31 March an annual report on the activities of their subordinate structure. (4) The Annual Report of the Service "Military information" shall be presented to the Council of Ministers by the Minister of Defence within the term of para. 3. (5) The State Agency "National Security", the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (6) The Council of Ministers shall submit the reports to the National Assembly, which shall be adopted by separate decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u374	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u375	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal made by us under art. 22 and the associated creation of art. 22a is on the following occasion. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 This is about control of intelligence and counterintelligence services. In this case, the National Security Service is neither, nor is it a habit in the company of SANS, the State Agency of Intelligence and the Service of Military Information, we believe it is a habit rather than for objective reasons. The activities of the National Security Service, without being underestimated, cannot be compared to those of the other services that we consider in this Law. Therefore, the next Law, which is at the next point, is also adopted. It is not really, and at least should not be, secret, so it also does not imply the special parliamentary control intended for scouts and counterintelligences, which is envisaged in these texts. This does not mean that it should be without parliamentary control. For this reason, with our proposal, we offer your attention and insist that it be supervised by the Internal Commission, whose subject of activity is more suited to the competence of the National Security Service. This is also evident from the next bill that we will adopt. I hope that the Members of the National Assembly will understand these arguments and support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u376	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it, please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 14 against 54, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's edited text of the importer for art. 22. Vote 94 MPs: 88, none, abstention 6. Article 22 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u377	Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: A new article shall be created. 22a: Art. 22a. The National Assembly shall exercise control over the activities of the National Security Service through a permanent committee with internal security and public order. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Withdraw it, we voted it in the previous text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u378	Statements? [[Noise and lines.]] They're withdrawing him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u379	Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. The National Assembly shall, through its Standing Committee, monitor and control the activities of the management and spending of the funds provided to the bodies under art. 22......................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u380	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's edited art. 23, vote on the Commission's version of art. 23. Vote 95 MPs: 86, no objection, abstention 9. Article 23 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u381	Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the word "normal" is replaced by the word "constitutional" and "constitutional" is replaced by the word "constitutional" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u382	Statements? [[Heckling]] You're withdrawing him. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 24, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 2. Article 24 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u383	"Additional provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u384	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law, as well as the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 78, none, abstention 4. The text of the importer for the name of the division of the Law, § 1, and the name of the division of the Law have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u385	A proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs is created a new § 2. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on State Agency "National Security" (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 54 is created. 8 and 9: A public service recruitment contest in the Agency shall not be held for persons who are civil servants in other security services, as well as in the public order services if they meet the requirements for the entry of a public service into the Agency and after written consent of the Chair of the Agency and the Head of the Agency concerned. (9) A contest for the appointment of a public service to the Agency shall not be held in the cases referred to in art. 55, para. 2 of the Rules on Law Enforcement. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 para. 3 is amended as follows: In the case of para. 1 person receives monthly remuneration in the amount of the basic monthly remuneration for the rank and level of the higher post. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 After the words "True of the.' the President and the Vice-Presidents, as well as the Vice-Presidents, shall be added. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 1 the powers of the President and of the Vice-Presidents and of the Vice-Presidents shall be added after the words 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132, para. 3 the words "January 31' shall be replaced by "March 31'. 6. In § 1 t. 1 of the Additional provision is amended as follows: "1." "National security" is the concept of art. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u386	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its respective content in accordance with the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The new § 2 together with its corresponding content by report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u387	There is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to create a new § 3. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (promise, SG...) § 1 item. 13 of the additional provisions are amended as follows: "13." National security is the concept of art. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u388	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 together with its content in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The new § 3 together with its content on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u389	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u390	Statements? I won't. We vote on paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 by importer, which in the Commission report becomes 4, 5 and 6. They voted 93 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 3. Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u391	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Lazarov, made in accordance with Article 5. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 5, which becomes § 7: .................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 1 November 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u392	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 as amended by the Commission on its report. They voted 106 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 7. Paragraph 7 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission's report and thus the Second Reading Bill. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u393	On behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u394	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Law adopted today at second reading on the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System is the first of the package four laws regulating the functioning of the Bulgarian security services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u395	Mr. Ethem, I apologize, but according to our Rules of Procedure, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group may be on any other subject other than those on the agenda. So there is no way, on behalf of a parliamentary group, you can comment on a newly adopted law or others that are coming in the programme for the week.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u396	It's not a comment, Madam President. I understand your concern about the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u397	No, I'm not worried, Mr. Ethem, I just have to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u398	Okay. But our expectation is the adopted Law and the forthcoming discussions of the other bills to be a reason for rethinking and a complete change of the doctrine of National Security, which the Bulgarian Muslims... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u399	Thank you, Mr. Etem. There is no way in these subjects you can speak on behalf of a parliamentary group. Please, get off the stand and don't disturb the public order!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u400	I'm not disturbing public order. I'm telling you right!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u401	In the gym. There's an explicit text in the Rules! Come on, I'll read it to you. You can speak tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u402	I'm familiar enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u403	I'll give you the floor tomorrow, since it's not in... He can't do it tomorrow either, because he's in the program for this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u404	It was one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u405	It doesn't matter if it's one or two. Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u406	Come on, sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u407	Don't call!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u408	Colleagues, please don't yell at anyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u409	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group, a half hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u410	I'm calling a recess until 4:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u411	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber, the time for interruption is up. The sitting continues with: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE NATIONAL FOOD SERVICES. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote on 20 May 2015. Mr. Lazarov, we're listening to the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u412	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote Mr. Angel Antonov's admission to the Chamber of Chambers of the National Security Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u413	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 76 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guest. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u414	The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. Chapter one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u415	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law, the name of Chapter 1 and Article 2. 1 by importer supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u416	Article 2. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u417	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 100 MPs: 25, against 38, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 2 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: 93 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u418	Article 3. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The National Security Service shall carry out its activities on the basis of the following basic principles: 1. compliance with the Constitution, laws and international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 2. respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens and their dignity; 3. political neutrality; 4. One-on-one in the management; 5. continuity of security; 6. interaction with state authorities, local self-government bodies, legal and natural persons, as well as with relevant authorities and organisations in other countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u419	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 3 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u420	Article 4. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. In the performance of their duties, the National Security Service officials are physically inviolable and are under the protection of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u421	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 4 in the version of the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u422	By Chapter 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the head.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u423	We are voting on the name of Chapter Two. They voted 114 MPs: for 101, against none, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u424	Under art. 5 has a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 para. 1 is amended as follows: The National Security Service is a specialized state service directly subordinate to the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The National Security Service shall be a specialized military government service to the President of the Republic. (2) The National Security Service shall be a legal person with the seat of Sofia and its head shall be a senior authorising officer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u425	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u426	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! If we wanted to settle the status of the National Security Service, change philosophy and reform this unit, we should have started here. That is why we have proposed that the National Security Service be a specialized state service directly subordinate to the Council of Ministers. Our offer is not supported. The Commission's proposal is different. In accordance with art. 5 of the importer who is supported by the Commission, the NSO is a military government service subject to the President's submission. This raises two questions: why militaryized and why subject to the President's submission? The explanation in the reasoning is: due to the particular nature of the activities related to the implementation of the public service. However, fellow Members, the main activity of this structure is security and is not relevant to the country's defence ability in any way! The preservation of its militaryized character may explain the appointment of the Office to submit to the President as Supreme Commander, but it can hardly be identified as part of the armed forces. I think there is no colleague in this House who does not agree with this opinion. In order to ensure the security of persons and sites, the Office relies mainly on information from other structures of the sector "Secretary" of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency "National Security" of the State Agency "Study" "All within the Executive Authority," under the general authority of the Council of Ministers, in particular the Prime Minister. In view of the above, can some of the importing colleagues or the Commission give at least one logical reason why this service is subordinate to the President of the Republic? There is no reason for the National Security Service to be the most special of the special services, because it has a security character and is not even important compared to the two intelligence units. These are state guards, government guards, not presidential Praetorian Guards. Therefore, please: support the proposal we have made if we want to change philosophy and have a real reform of the National Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u427	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 21, against 60, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. On what grounds do you want a re-vote, Mr. Popov? Here you go. Two more minutes on this text. For something that makes sense, I understand, but only to ruin time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u428	That's right, Madam President. It makes sense to re-vote, because with the text in no way changes philosophy and nothing changes in this status.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u429	The fact that we don't change philosophy is no reason to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u430	This is not a reform of the National Security Service. We have had a principled position at the first reading of the bill and in the Commission, and now we have a principled position. The bill does not in any way meet public requirements. I repeat: please support our proposals. In case they are not supported, I say that my colleagues and I from our parliamentary group will not continue to participate in this bill because it is an imitation of reform, imitation of a bill and in no way meets public expectations! Thank you. [[Single applause and noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u431	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 114 MPs: 20, against 72, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u432	You have all the responsibility for what you accept! [[Laughter, noise, single applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u433	I am now voting on art. 5 in the version of the Commission on its report. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP LB is leaving the hall.]] They voted 104 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u434	Under art. 6 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 the words "the President of the Republic" shall be replaced by "the Council of Ministers." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) The main structural units and the common numerical composition of the National Security Service shall be validated by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Head of State. [[(Noise and lines:) You can't hear it!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u435	Louder, Mr. Lazarov, the coworkers can't hear you. Colleagues, you guys keep it down in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u436	(2) The functions and tasks of the structural units of the National Security Service, including those carrying out financial control over the formation and expenditure of the budget of the Office, shall be determined by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u437	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: 12, against 75, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 6 in the version of the Commission on its report. They voted 99 MPs: 97 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u438	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u439	We vote. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u440	Under art. 7 has received a proposal from the MP Miho Mihov: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the "4." Confirms the classification of the posts under art. 38, para. 1 on a proposal from the Chief of the National Security Service. 5. Confirms the plan to bring the National Service for Defence in Military Time and the plan for mobilization, in coordination with the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, p. 1 the words after consultation with the Council of Ministers shall be deleted and added by a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Article 7' is amended as follows: Art. 7. (1) The National Security Service shall be headed by a chief appointed by a decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a period of 5 years. (2) The Chief shall be responsible for the overall activity of the service. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. The President of the Republic shall exercise general leadership and control over the activities of the National Security Service by: 1. appoint and dismiss the Head of Service in coordination with the Council of Ministers and the Deputy Chiefs of Staff at the proposal of the Head of Service; 2. approve the main structural units and the total numerical composition; 3. awarded officers with senior officer's rank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u441	Statements? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u442	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, this is a very important text. The problem is principled, and I will ask you to reconsider the proposal. I think the proposal is good to be supported. What's this about? The president is head of state. There's no other case where he's proposing to anyone. Usually he appoints, validates and so on. This is the only case where jurisdiction is reversed. He shall appoint in consultation with the Council of Ministers. In all other services, in all other cases he is offered and appointed. Let's go beyond the case of who's president today, who's prime minister. We make a law, we regulate lasting public relations after 25 years of lack of such a regulation. That's the right approach. Once again, I say the President is the Head of State and he must be the last, his word must be the last. Here in this case, it's a follow-up. The only case is the one in which relationships are regulated and this is not normal. Understand that. It's not the question of who we're going to affect the ego. By the way, for 25 years this office has no legal regulation precisely because of who the president is, who will be in charge and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u443	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Miho Mihov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 12, against 19, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 98 MPs: 20, against 12, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 7, against 44, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission on the text of the importer for art. 7. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 6. Article 7 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u444	Under art. 8 there is a proposal of the MP Miho Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8 to create a new paragraph: The Head of the National Security Service shall be appointed (liberation) by a decision of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly 8, para. One down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The National Security Service shall be headed by a chief responsible for the overall activity of the Office. (2) A person may be appointed as Head of Service who: 1. has only Bulgarian citizenship; 2. there is a higher education with an educational-qualification degree. 3. hold 10 years of professional experience in the security services or in the public order services, of which at least 5 years of leadership; 4. has not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation, and has not been released from criminal liability for deliberate crimes of a general nature; 5. is not deprived of the right to hold a certain state office; 6. has been authorised to access classified information with a classification level of "Strogo classified'; 7. not members of political parties or coalitions, or organizations with political objectives; 8. is not a sole trader, partner, manager, prosecutor or member of supervisory boards, board or board of directors or in control bodies of commercial companies, cooperatives or non-profit entities engaged in business; 9. is not employed in employment or service, except for carrying out teaching or research activities; 10. has been verified for belonging to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, and the result of the inspection is announced under the same law. (3) The Head of the National Security Service shall be appointed by the President of the Republic by decree in consultation with the Council of Ministers for a period of 5 years. Upon expiry of that period, the Head of Service may be reassigned to the same post for another 5 years. (4) The mandate of the Head of the National Security Service shall be terminated in advance by the President of the Republic: 1. at his request; 2. at the end of the limit of age under art. 160 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. in the event of actual inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 4. in case of incompatibility with the requirements of para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 6. in cases of serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties and in actions which undermine the prestige of the National Security Service; 7. on death or posture. (5) Within one month of the termination of the authority of the Head of State, the President of the Republic shall appoint a new Head of State by decree in consultation with the Council of Ministers. (6) Until the appointment of a new Head of Service, his powers shall be exercised by the Deputy Chief of the National Security Service appointed by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u445	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Miho Mihov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 15 against 4, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u446	Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you as well as to Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Lazarov, you have a lovely timbre. I'm asking you to read louder because you can't hear anything in the back. [[GERB's line.]] It's said higher, not stronger. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u447	Can I have an attitude? Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I hear you when you speak loudly in the back. Mr. Bayraktarov, I can hear you beautifully when you speak loud enough from behind. Maybe the acoustics are reversed, but I'll do my best to understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u448	If you're done with your dialogues about volume and volume, let's move on. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 2 against 56, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's edited text of the importer for art. 8. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. It's an eight-by-eight importer. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 3. Article 8 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u449	Under art. 9 there is a proposal of the MP Miho Mihov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, p. 5 to amend the text as follows: It's five o'clock. organize the preparation of the classification for the posts under art. 38, para. 1 and validates the Office's official timetable. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 (a) c. 13 the words "the President of the Republic" shall be replaced by "the Council of Ministers"; (b) c. 14 the words "the President of the Republic" shall be replaced by "the Council of Ministers" and the words "at his request or at their own initiative" shall be replaced by "the Council of Ministers." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valentin Kasabov, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. The Head of the National Security Service shall: 1. exercise the immediate direction and control of the work of the service; 2. represent the National Security Service; 3. organise the development and maintain the implementation plan for the implementation of the National Service for Defence in Military Time, the mobilisation plan, ensuring the implementation of the events of the state wartime plan and the disaster action plan; 4. organise interaction with state authorities, local authorities, legal and natural persons, as well as with relevant bodies and organisations in other countries; 5. validate the classification of the posts under art. 38, para. 1 and the official timetable of the service; 6. draw up and propose the draft budget and allocate the budget of the National Security Service, direct the financial and material and technical provision and control the activities of the material responsible persons; 7. manage human resources, the professional training of employees and is a body for the appointment of civil servants; 8. responsible for the legal provision of the service; 9. direct the implementation of social policy in the service; 10. declare a list of categories of information to be classified as professional secrecy for the field of activity of the service; 11. responsible for the management of the state property provided to the service; 12. direct the activity of international cooperation; 13. provide the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers with an annual report on the activities of the Office; 14. inform the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister at their request or on its own initiative on matters within the competence of the Office; 15. shall be reported to the National Assembly; 16. performs other functions defined by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u450	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Miho Mihov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 16 against 35, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 7 against 51, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall now put to the vote the text of the importer, which has been edited by the Commission, under art. Nine of her report. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 9. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. Article 9 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u451	Under art. 10 has a proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Angel Naydenov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u452	Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u453	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a result of the reluctance of the majority to hear our arguments and support some of the proposals, including one of the most important in our view, the parliamentary group was forced to suspend its participation in the consideration of this bill and to leave the Chamber. This makes fortuitously further consideration of the proposals we have made on behalf of the parliamentary group. Therefore, as an importer, I withdraw all the proposals from here until the end of the bill. I ask that they are not read and therefore not put to the vote. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u454	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Let's continue with art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u455	Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The Head of the National Security Service in the performance of his functions shall be assisted by two Deputy Chiefs. (2) The Head of the National Security Service shall delegate by order powers to his alternates and shall determine their functions. (3) In absence, the head of the National Security Service shall be replaced by a deputy chief appointed by him. (4) In the exercise of his powers, the head of the National Security Service shall issue instructions, orders, orders and other acts provided for in law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u456	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version made by the Commission to art. 10. Vote art. 10 in the version of the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. Article 10 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u457	Under art. 11 The proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The Deputy Chiefs of the National Security Service shall be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Head of Service. (2) A person meeting the requirements of art. 8, para. 2. (3) The mandate of the Deputy Chief of the National Security Service shall be terminated early by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Head of the Service under the conditions of art. 8, para. 4. (4) Deputy Chiefs and Heads of Structural Units of the National Security Service within their designated functional competence shall issue orders and orders.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u458	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 11 in the version, according to the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Article 11 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u459	Under art. 12 supposed by the National Representative Metodi Andreyev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u460	We vote on the text of the importer as art. 12, as well as the name of Chapter Four by importer supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. Article 12 and the name of Chapter 4 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u461	Under art. 13 The proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. The main functions of the National Security Service are: 1. forecasting and detection of threats to the safety of protected persons and objects; 2. preventing and crossing attacks against the protected persons and objects; 3. ensure the safety of the protected persons in their places of residence and during their movement; 4. ensuring the safety of the secure objects; 5. ensuring within the limits of its competence the organisation and operation of the special communications of the protected persons; 6. ensuring protection of protected persons and secure objects in the event of disasters, in the event of war, in the event of military or other emergency situations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u462	Vote art. 13 in the version of the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. Article 13 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u463	Under art. 14 The proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, and the proposal under point 2. One and three are withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Merdjanov, Naydenov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Lazarov and Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports the proposal by the MP Atanasov. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) For the performance of the functions under art. 13 and within its competence, the National Security Service shall: 1. establish and maintain the conditions and arrangements necessary to ensure the safety of the protected persons in their places of residence and remove the obstacles for carrying out the security; 2. organise and conduct technical and other activities necessary to ensure the safety of the protected persons and security sites; 3. provides specialized transport; 4. where necessary, organise escorting, piloting or escorting the means of transport of the protected persons, subject to the requirements of the Road Traffic Act; 5. build and maintain surveillance, alarm and security systems at secure sites; 6. organise and conduct activities and activities, including security-technical activities, to build and improve the means and systems of communication of the protected persons and security sites, to ensure their reliability and information security; 7. organise and conduct in the places of residence of the protected persons security-technical, radiation, chemical and sanitary hygiene control, as well as control over food and beverages intended for consumption by the protected persons; 8. ensure the information-analytic activities of security; 9. ensure control of the activity and safety of its employees; 10. interact and cooperate with the state authorities, local self-government bodies, legal and natural persons, as well as with relevant bodies and organisations in other countries; 11. carry out research, selection, checking for psychological fitness, initial and ongoing training, including initial military training, as well as improving the qualification of its employees; 12. provides logically its activities; 13. provide transport and service and maintenance of specialized cars and other motor vehicles; 14. ensure the transport activities of the administration of the President of the Republic; 15. manage the provided properties and movable items; 16. carry out documentation, photography and sound, recording and video recording during public events with the participation of the protected person. (2) Other functions and activities may be entrusted to the National Security Service only by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u464	We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 14. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 14 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u465	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u466	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five, the name of Section I and the text of the importer as art. 15 which are supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter Five, Section I, and the text of the importer for art. Fifteen have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u467	Under art. 16 The proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) Personal security shall be an activity in the protection of life, body integrity, health and dignity of the protected person by unlawful violations, their prevention and crossing where the person fulfils the safety instructions prescribed by the National Security Service or by the relevant officer. (2) Information shall be provided to the guard regarding the threat to his safety.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u468	We are voting for the editorial of art. 16 on the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Article 16 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u469	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u470	We vote on the text of the importer as art. 17, supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Article 17 shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u471	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) The activities of security of events shall be a complex of actions to protect protected sites and ensure the safety of protected persons when participating in mass events or activities of a short-term nature. (2) The activity under para. 1 shall be carried out independently or jointly with other competent public authorities, other legal persons and citizens in order to ensure the smooth and peaceful conduct of mass events or activities of a short-term nature. (3) When the information about the respective event is entered into the service less than 24 hours before its beginning, the security activity under para. 1 shall not be applied in full.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u472	Vote art. 18 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. Article 18 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u473	Under art. 19 there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) Specialized transport shall be a security activity organised and carried out in a specific way for the safe, smooth and timely transport of persons designated by that law. (2) Motor vehicles used for specialized transport shall be specially designed for security purposes or additionally incorporated components and/or security enhancement elements. (3) In carrying out the activity under para. 1 may also apply escorting, piloting or escorting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u474	Vote art. 19 in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Article 19 shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u475	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u476	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section II, supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The name of Section II is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u477	Under art. 20 has a proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The President, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister in the country shall be provided with all types of security. (2) When travelling abroad to the President, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister shall be provided with personal security and, where necessary, specialized transport and the scope of security shall comply with the requirements of the Host Party. (3) The Vice President shall be provided with security of residence and employment, as well as personal security and specialized transport in the country. When travelling abroad, personal security is provided and, if necessary, specialized transport. (4) The chief prosecutor in the country shall be provided with personal security and specialized transport, and on official travel abroad and, if necessary, personal security. (5) During his term of office, the persons under para. 1 shall not give up security and comply with the safety measures applied by the National Security Service. (6) Representatives of another State with a rank corresponding to the rank of the persons under para. 1. Heads of international organisations and institutions on a visit to the Republic of Bulgaria shall be provided with security, taking into account the scope of the security measures applied in the country, organisation or institution concerned. (7) In case of a complicated security environment or a specific threat by decision of the Committee on Art. 23 of the persons under para. 3, 4 and 6 other types of security are provided. (8) In the situation of war, martial law or emergency, except for the persons referred to in para. 1, 3 and 4, security shall also be provided to members of the Supreme Chief Command under Article 4. 114 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u478	We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 20. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. Article 20 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u479	Under art. 21 has a proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) Specialized transport in peace time shall be provided to: 1. the members of the Council of Ministers, the members of the Constitutional Court, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ombudsman, the Mayor of the capital; 2. the persons who held the positions of President of the National Assembly or Prime Minister.. up to 4 years after their dismissal. (2) The persons who were presidents of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be provided security under the terms and conditions of the Law on certain rights of the persons who were presidents of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) In the case of a complicated security environment by decision of the Committee on Art. 23 on the letter by para. 1 and 2 other types of security are also provided. (4) Specialized transport shall also be provided to representatives of another State, international organisation or institution of a rank corresponding to the rank of the persons under para. 1 and 2 when visiting the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u480	Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u481	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I'm making an offer for editing in art. 21, para. 1, t. 2, as is the Commission's proposal, where it is written that the persons who held the positions of President of the National Assembly or Prime Minister................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In other words, they are entitled to specialized transport in peacetime up to 4 years after their dismissal. Until now, under the regulation that existed under the law, it was up to a year. I don't understand why in four years? I have a question: who will determine how much? It's said: up to four. I suggest that the text acquires the following form: "2." the persons who held the office of President of the National Assembly or Prime Minister one year after their dismissal. Apart from that, notice, it's not a security detail, it's just a specialized transport. I'm sorry, but these things shouldn't happen no matter what. At this point, look up to 4 years old, calculate how many people we will have to provide them with specialized transport. Do all office prime ministers come in here, Assembly presidents and so on? Here's a case where we can save expenses, please. I propose editing of art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u482	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u483	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! By joining Mr. Atanasov's opinion, I am making another proposal. I think we should drop the point for the Ombudsman. He's a public defender. Tomorrow we will vote on the new Ombudsman. The Ombudsman defends the interests of citizens. It's not part of the system, or at least by law it shouldn't be part of the system. [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB.]] How do you imagine an ombudsman who goes among the people, among the people, among the nation, to defend their interests, to defend their demands, but comes with a security guard from the National Security Service?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u484	It says here "specialized transport."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u485	Even if it is a specialized transport, I believe that this from a social and ethical point of view is not acceptable. I am proposing that this transport should be removed for the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u486	Line. I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Enchev in art. 21, para. 1, t. 1 ssssssssssssssssssssss. 1 ssssssssssssssssssssss. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 12, against 30, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Atanasov's proposal in art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 and the expression "to 4' shall be replaced by the number "to 1'. Please vote. They voted 73 MPs: 35 against 15, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the conversations I had with my colleagues before the vote, I understand that you did not understand the meaning of what I was proposing. Colleagues, the text offers practically one single thing to these people. It's not security. It's free transportation. Excuse me, but he was chairman of the Assembly, Prime Minister, couldn't he arrange his transport? Does it take four years for all these people to drive them around in a car and driver of the NSA? After all, these are costs and could be saved. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u488	Dear colleagues, re-vote. They voted 86 MPs: 29, against 22, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 21 according to the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 15. Article 21 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u489	Under art. 22 has a proposal of the MP Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Merdjanov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) In the case of a specific threat of the person in peace time by decision of the Committee on Art. 23 security shall be provided to: 1. the persons referred to in art. 21, para. 1 and 2; 2. MPs; 3. members of the families of the persons under art. 20, para. 1; 4. other persons related to national security, the offense against whom it would search, weaken or create difficulties of power in the Republic. (2) Representatives of another State, international organisation or institution of a rank corresponding to the rank of the persons under para. 1, t. 1 and 2, security shall be provided in cases where the sending State's security service has provided written information on the existence of an threat to the foreign guest or has requested the appointment of certain types of security. (3) On a proposal from the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs of representatives of another State, international organisation or institution and the Heads of Delegation of special importance to the country shall be provided with specialized transport and/or personal security. (4) The persons under para. 1 may suspend, partially or entirely, security after the signature of a model declaration approved by the Head of the National Security Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u490	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u491	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, before I begin my speech, I would like to say to colleagues from GERB that with the previous text you gave four years of free transport to Oresharski. That's your business.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u492	And Gemini's. And Tsetska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u493	And Gemini, and so on. The text to be voted on is extremely important. This is the possibility for the special committee, which consists of three persons headed by the head of the NSO, in the event of a specific threat to take decisions for security, note to which persons........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 21, para. 1 and para. 2 of the newly adopted text. By para. 2 These are the families of the former presidents. Members of Parliament, members of the families of the persons referred to in art. 20, para. 1.................................................................................. And we're going to t. 4: Other persons related to national security, invading, weakening or creating difficulties in power in the republic. Such persons shall not have the capacity of officials. That is to say, an assault on any person, if it's related to national security, could dig around and create a predicament of power in the republic. I generally agree that such hypotheses are possible. There are such faces, but I don't want to give specific examples here. Each of you can think of any one of you who is not part of the state. However, I have a proposal that I have made to the Commission, but it has not been accepted. I'm proposing it again, and I think this is the right way to approach this case. I propose an additional version of this text: Other persons related to national security who would be harmed, weakened or created a difficulty in power in the republic and who do not have their own means of security. Let the Commission, which decides that these persons need to be guarded, assess whether these persons have their own funds to secure security. If they have their own funds, if they are wealthy or represent relevant communities, NGOs, religions and so on, and these communities have the means to provide security, the state should not spend money on it. It is sufficient that the State, through its specialised bodies, signals the person of this threat. If the Commission considers that the person does not have his own funds, then let security be taken over. Otherwise, it's just another waste. I don't want to get into a fight, give examples, you know what I'd say at the moment. I'm trying to look at the question in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u494	Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u495	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly and clearly on the same point 4. Colleagues, I have an editorial proposal. If the proposal of colleague Atanasov is not accepted, then I ask that mine be put to the vote. My proposal is: at the end of the sentence, a comma is placed and the text is added as the reasons and reasons are made public. Let, in the hypothesis, when the Office decides to guard other persons not mentioned in Law under any exceptional circumstances, declare their motives and grounds. [[Heckling]] I am not saying to point out the persons so that there is no doubt that they will be threatened in this way, but to indicate that the Office guards other persons; there are a number of reasons and a number of reasons for this, without mentioning the specific persons. I believe that this way they will not be threatened, and the taxpayer should still know whose security he is paying for. Isn't that right? I'm giving it to her in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u496	Mr. Atanasov, do you have the proposal in writing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u497	I wrote it by hand, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u498	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. To speak, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u499	My fellow Members, the text that we are about to vote on in a moment is a noun, an important one. He's indicative. I fully accept what Mr. Atanasov said, as well as Mr. Slavov. Let's not pretend to be people we don't understand. It's about Bulgaria's main hydrologist! This means that if the text of the Commission is adopted, we will legitimize the security of this chief hydrologist, whose main activity is to binge in soffee and so forth. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayj.]] We have a direct impression! We have direct impressions, so there's no reason to spend the money on the state and the boys there being servants to the hydrologist in question. Let's accept Mr. Atanasov's proposal so justice can reign. I said that this text is a gesture and every single vote will make it clear whether we are for the Sarai and inside who are guarding it or against the Sarai. Because it's like we've become a sarayan country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u500	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the editorial supplement of Mr. Atanasov, which he proposes. 4 of art. 22, para. 1 after the end of the text to remove the point and the sentence to continue the same do not have own funds. We vote on Mr. Atanasov's proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 40, against 23, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u501	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote. You saw for yourself that colleague Karakachanov went on the run, put his card on, but he didn't have time to vote. Colleagues, I repeat: the text is extremely important. If you want to enter into debates at any point and stay within five hours to protest that Bulgaria is becoming a saray state, we can do so. [[Replying and shouting.]] Do not turn Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people into a servant of the hydroengineer!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u502	What do you suggest, Mr. Bayraktarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u503	I want a re-vote and support the proposal of colleague Atanasov. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 98 MPs: 38, against 27, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal in the same text after the point becomes a comma and the sentence continues as the reasons and reasons are made public. They voted 109 MPs: 28 against 51, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 22 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 87, against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u504	Under art. 23 there is a proposal from the National Representative Yavor Haytov, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The existence of a complicated security environment or a specific threat under art. 20, para. Art. 7, Art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, as well as in the cases referred to in art. 26, para. 1, the type, scope and duration of the security provided, the modification of the scope and the termination of the security shall be determined by a decision of the Commission. (2) The Commission shall be composed of the President of the National Security Service, and members: the President of the State Agency of National Security and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior. (3) If necessary, after a decision of the Commission in its work shall participate as members the heads of the service "Military information" and of the State Agency. (4) The procedure for convening committee meetings and the rules for its work shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (5) Where data or information relating to the performance of the functions of the National Security Service is submitted to the Office at the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency shall provide them to the Minister of Defence and to other state bodies and bodies of the local self-government. (6) The information exchange and interaction between the bodies and the structures under para. 5 shall be governed by joint instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u505	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 23. Vote 107 MPs: 95 against 4, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u506	Under art. 24 there is a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Yavor Haytov, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 23 and proposes the following version of Article 23. 24: Art. 24. (1) The heads of the Bulgarian overseas representations shall receive security by decision of the Council of Ministers. (2) At the request of a state authority or a political party represented in the National Assembly or in the European Parliament and, where possible, the National Security Service shall ensure appropriate, by type and duration, the protection of significant public-political events with the participation of persons guarded by the Office. (3) The National Security Service shall provide for temporary use motor vehicles to the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and foreign guests and their accompanying officials from other departments in the country if necessary and possible. (4) The expenses incurred under para. 1-3 shall be reimbursed under the budget of the National Security Service in accordance with the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u507	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 24. Vote 98 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u508	"Department III" "Securities of Security". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u509	We vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u510	Under art. 25 has a proposal from Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The National Security Service shall guard premises and adjacent areas in which a security guard is resident under this law. (2) The security shall also be subject to premises provided to the National Security Service for the performance of its functions specified in this Law or where this is entrusted under another law or act of the Council of Ministers. (3) The National Security Service shall apply special security measures for the award of the construction of technical security, maintenance and repair at the premises under para. 1 and 2. (4) The National Security Service may guard together with other services the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria listed on a list adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u511	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 25. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u512	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 26, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u513	We vote. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u514	According to the name of Chapter Six, the powers of the officers, the sergeants, there is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u515	We are voting on the importer's proposal for the name of Chapter Six, supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u516	Under art. 27 has a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) The functions and activities of art. Art. 13 and art. 14, para. 1 shall be executed by the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service. (2) Where necessary for the performance of specific tasks of security of persons, objects or events, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall give written or oral orders. (3) In case of inability to give orders under para. 2, they may be carried out by means of actions the meaning of which is understandable to the persons to whom they refer or to whom they are directed. (4) Orders under para. 2 and 3 are mandatory for execution, unless they require the execution of an obvious crime for the person. (5) Orders issued in writing shall be served against the signature of the person addressed to them. The refusal or failure of the person to obtain orders issued in writing shall be certified by the signature of a witness. (6) Orders may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not stop the execution of the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u517	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 27. Vote 91 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u518	Under art. 28 has a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u519	We vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u520	Under art. 29 has a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. (1) For the performance of the activities of security officers and sergeants of the National Security Service may require information from state authorities, local self-government bodies, legal and natural persons subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. (2) The bodies and persons referred to in para. 1 provide the requested information and are obliged to assist the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service in carrying out the tasks assigned to them by this law in the security of persons, objects or events. (3) The information under para. 1 and 2 shall be processed, analysed and stored in a row designated by the Head of the National Security Service, subject to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act and the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u521	Continue with the texts to art. 33 included. There are no unsupported proposals, only Commission editorials. The debate will be shared.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u522	Editorial of the Commission for art. 30: Art. 30. (1) For the performance of their tasks under this law, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service may also carry out checks on items and substances. (2) For the prevention of a violation of the life, body integrity, health or dignity of the protected person, as well as to ensure that the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service carry out their activities are free to check: 1. identification documents; 2. luggage, cargo, means of transport and their accompanying documents; 3. Objects. (3) The inspection shall be carried out in a way that does not undermine the honour and dignity of the citizens. (4) For carrying out the activities of security officers and sergeants of the National Security Service may build and use technical means or systems, including for: 1. monitoring and filming, with the recorded materials used for: (a) clarification of circumstances relating to an offence against a guarded person or guarded object; (b) establishment of unlawful surveillance of the guarded person or guarded object; (c) the objectives of vocational training in the service; 2. radio interference if necessary and provided that they do not disrupt air, sea or river navigation; 3. Security-technical checks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u523	The next article. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u524	Article 31 "Proposition of the People's Representative Metodi Andreyev." Proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u525	And further down. Lazarov's proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u526	Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov, Lyubomir Hristov, Petar Petrov and Stefan Dedev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) To establish compliance with the requirements of the regulations of food and beverages intended for consumption by protected persons, officers and sergeants shall be entitled to: 1. take samples and samples of food and drink and assign their examination and analysis to accredited laboratories; 2. verify compliance with good manufacturing practice within the meaning of the Food Act; 3. monitor and control all stages of preparation until the food and drink are served. (2) In the case of findings of non-compliance under para. 1 The head of the National Security Service or an official authorised by him shall be notified.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u527	Article 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u528	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. Under art. 33 has a proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lazarov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. (1) In carrying out their tasks, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall use personal protective and protective equipment. (2) The order of use of the funds under para. 1, their kind and their positions shall be determined by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u529	That's it. Statements under art. Article 29 33 including? Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u530	My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to parts of the text that you have just heard. The NSA officials have too many powers. They are entitled, including to search luggage, means of transport, escort documents and whatever they want at all. Very common are the cases and practices already from our latest history, when the NSO exceeds its powers. It seems to me that with these texts, we not only untie their hands, but we give them overpowering authority. We ourselves have direct observations, not to say that we have suffered our media. Then, when the NSO three or four years ago was guarding the main hydrologist, who was taking a few nice escorts and drinking another bottle of mineral water, of course, then broke the camera and beat up two of our operators. And it became one hundred meters from the high hydroengineer's place, and then they made these guys stand sofa chazle, let me use this expression in front of His Majesty Sarai Dogan, and he continued, trying verbally to communicate and at the same time tactfully communicate with these girlfriends of his. Such outbursts seem to me to me that with the texts of art. 30 points, most likely, will loosen the hands of the NSA guards in question. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, there's Samples, samples of food, beverages shall be taken and their examination and analysis shall be carried out to an accredited laboratory. Compliance with good manufacturing practice within the meaning of the Food Act shall be verified. Let's get this straight, are they security guards, are they cooks, are they organs of HEI, what are they? How will they check these practices? In what way? The text is just utter nonsense. Not to mention that with the previous text that was dropped, they should also check the hygiene, purely physical hygiene habits of the kitchen workers. What, they're gonna get in their way somewhere more intimate? What are we doing? [[Voices: "Eeeeeeeee"]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Read it! This text has been removed, but I'm telling you, it hasn't been properly cleared by the editorial texts. And there's enormous authority. In addition, they are given the opportunity to request any information about any person or company they target. And the authorities are obliged to cooperate with them. I ask: at one point a person is uncomfortable with a particular political party or someone else. Well, they can just ruin his life, complete information about his company, complete information about his personal life, complete information about everything, including when he's breathing, when he's performing his physiological needs. What's this all about? What's it for, I ask?! Right now we're just giving people and services a chance, giving them a chance to scribble so much that they can just ruin, not guard, ruin every single person, a firm, whatever you think. It's just insane! This text we will not vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u531	Any lines to Mr. Kasabov? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u532	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to the fact that the texts include atypical functions of the employees of NSO, in art. 29, para. 3 has one extremely important pass, colleagues. Because in art. 29, para. 3 of the employees of NSO are already involved police functions, only that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, when collecting such information in the Law, are provided that this information, apart from being collected, is being destroyed and destroyed because the creation of such information arrays... [[Noise.]] I will now address Mr. Tsvetanov and remind him of a period of his less enjoyable existence in the Ministry of Interior. Do you remember, Mr. Tsvetanov, when you were supposed to be fingerprinted at the Ministry of Interior? You were right to refuse.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u533	This is beyond the subject we are commenting on, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u534	It's not off the table, I'm setting an example for my colleagues to understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u535	Make your editorial proposals, because I'm worried you won't have enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u536	I'll do it. Don't interrupt me, I'm explaining the text to the point so the colleagues can understand it. You were right to refuse and then I even supported you in surrender because you created an array that could turn you into a criminal figure in two or three years. Is that right? That's right. Same thing now in art. 29, where it is granted as rights to the employees of the National Assembly, without providing for how this information should be destroyed, because the Ministry of Interior Act provides such a text. That is why we are making an editorial proposal in art. 29, para. 3, and after the word "analyzed" a comma shall be placed and after the word "saved" a word "destroyed" shall be added. Because if there is no such word, then there is no longer a way to destroy, which may be a form of abuse of the information collected. I hope you guys understand. This is extremely important. Tomorrow, each of you may be the victim of abuse of such information, I can give you dozens of examples.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u537	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. The line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u538	Dear Madam President, although in the form of a reply, I think it is a resonant proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov. However, to be clear, although order is given in order for...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u539	That's exactly what I asked Mr. Bayraktarov with the microphones off, but he's holding...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u540	Let's point out, however, for those implementing the National Security Service Act, that it is destroying itself in order.....it is acceptable. I am doing it in the form of a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u541	Are there any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal in art. 29, para. 3 the text to be read: The information under para. 1 and 2 shall be processed, analyzed, stored and destroyed in a manner determined by the Head of the National Security Service, subject to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act and the Personal Data Protection Act. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I now put an anbloc to the vote art. 29, along with the newly accepted editorial supplement, art. Art. 30, Art. Art. 31, Art. Art. 32, Art. 33 in their version of the Commission report. We are voting on these articles. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u542	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Allinei 3 and 4 drop out. 2. Everywhere the words "helpful funds" will be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: Art. 34, para. 1, t. 4 the word "detention' is replaced by the words "to take action to deter, dispose and neutralize'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) In the performance of their duties, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service may use physical force, assistance, special techniques and techniques only where this is absolutely necessary in: 1. attacks against a guarded person or employee of the National Security Service at or on the occasion of his or her duties under this law; 2. attacks of objects under art. 25 and 26; 3. countering or refusing to execute a legal order; 4. detention of a security-threatening person who is not subject to an order or resists an officer of the National Security Service in or on the occasion of his or her duties under this law. (2) Physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques may be used after warning, except for cases of sudden attack. (3) Aids are: ropes, handcuffs, electric shocks and other batons and fittings; smokers; chemical substances approved by the Minister of Health; blank cartridges, rubber or plastic cartridges or shock bullets; vehicle braking devices; space opening devices, lighting and sound effects devices; armored machines. (4) The order of use of auxiliary means shall be determined by an act of the Head of the National Security Service. (5) When using physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall, if possible, take all necessary measures not to endanger the lives and health of the citizens. (6) The use of physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques shall be suspended immediately after reaching the objective of the measure applied. (7) The use of physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques in relation to visible minors and pregnant women shall be prohibited. The prohibition shall not apply in cases of riots where there is an immediate risk to the life of a protected person when all other funds are exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u543	Statements? Mr. Enchev, after him Mr. Bayraktarov, Mr. Kasabov. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u544	Madam President, honourable Members! Article 34, para. 3 was read, but let me point out some of these aids, which I think are pretty brutal handcuffs, electroshock and other batons and gadgets; smokes, blank cartridges, shock bullets, space opening devices. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that the logical question is asked: Is the National Security Service a security service, or a gendarmerie, or internal troops? First question. Secondly, such brutal aids for the protection of dozens of people in the country seems very, very disturbing. On this occasion, I must tell you that this is actually contrary to European practice in this area. In addition, it is not normal to guard senior statesmen in a country of a Member of the European Union to use a device to open premises, as this implies not protection of the secure object, but aggression against other persons. If this paragraph, I am almost certain that you will not support it, then I will offer your attention. 7, although there's obviously been a technical error here, perhaps it's my fault. I'm referring to Al. 7, not al. 4. Alinea 7, I simply ask you to listen carefully to what is written in it and, secondly, to vote separately para. 3 and para. 7. Alinea 7 is more than scandalous: it is prohibited to use physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques in relation to visible minors and pregnant women. The next sentence: the ban does not apply in cases of riots, against the security of a person when all funds are exhausted. Treating children and pregnant women as potential targets, even in cases of endangering the life or security of the guard, I can't find the right word, but maybe this one is disgusting. I believe that if you vote separately, please vote separately, para. 7 drop out, because this sounds not only European, but it sounds antihuman. The very fact that there is talk of pregnant and underage women who can be treated in such a way throws a stain on us as legislators who will afford such a thing in a civilized country that claims to strictly respect human rights. After all, we are talking not about the Praetorian Guard, but about a security service with all the civilized means of doing so. So I propose that the two paragraphs be voted on separately. Once again, I have no illusions about para. 3, but please think about para. Seven before you vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u545	To vote, but with what editing? You're suggesting the removal of para. Seven?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u546	Departure of para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u547	Got it. And on the third, what should we vote on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u548	And, of course, drop out, too. I'm saying what my expectations are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u549	Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u550	Colleagues, the ridiculousness of these texts is more than obvious. In para. 7 The use of assistance to visible minors and pregnant women shall not be used. Let me ask you, after it became clear in one of the texts that they understand the food industry, how will they hire the pregnant woman because there are cases of a woman in the sixth and seventh months that you can't tell? What, they're gonna put her on the donkey and check her out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u551	It's said visible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u552	They've become big experts! They're big gynecologists! [[Laughter]] Tell me, how will they know if a woman is pregnant? In what way?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u553	Visible...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u554	In what way? You could see... What do you see? I'll show you, there are cases of a woman in the fifth-six months, you can't see anything, you can't understand she's pregnant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u555	So it's not visible and the ban doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u556	How? They're gonna ask her? Are you gonna put her on an ultrasound or are they gonna mix her up on the donkey? Who? The chief, the deputy chief? He'll take off the general's gloves and what will he do? [[Laughter]] I'm asking you! [[Reply from DPS.]] In para. 3 Then I suggest editing, if such are the editorials, and addition: "And all the Chinese means of torture and the applied techniques of the Great Inquisition."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u557	Can I slow down?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u558	Come on, write it down. [[Laughter]] And all the Chinese means of torture, and the attributes of the Great Inquisition to extort the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u559	Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u560	And Madame Chairman, you've disturbed your colleague. You forgot your card again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u561	I have no impression that this colleague of mine is disturbing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u562	Thank you, Madam President. Let us really return the conversation to a more serious basis, although it is absolutely understandable the outrage of colleague Kasabov. When it comes to the use of aids, for example in the Ministry of Interior Act, if I have to make an analogy, because the text is borrowed from there, especially when it comes to art. 34, para. 1, t. 3, aids, e.g. handcuffs, colleagues, can only be placed if there is resistance against the authority. There's this interesting thing missing. Moreover, aid may be placed on a person or on persons if, for example, they have not carried out an order that is lawful, only now pay attention: an order may be lawful, but it may endanger your life or health. Then what are you doing? I'm giving you an example. Imagine that the order is directed to a disabled person who is paralyzed, difficult to move and this order endangers his health, as the relevant NSO employee is not medically literate, does not know that the disease... has diseases for people with disabilities, where only one touch can cost him his life. Just recently, such a person was in the National Assembly. He's been like this a while now! So what's he gonna do? Therefore, my lady, in order to prevent such opportunities, because I will also give you the examples, if you take the trouble to get acquainted with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and you will see that approximately 30 per cent of the country's judgment, which we all and the entire Bulgarian people pay for, are precisely for violation of human rights. And when an action threatens your health and your life, it is a violation of your right. Therefore, Madam President, I am making an editorial supplement in art. 34, para. 1, t. 3 at the end to be added: If the same does not endanger the health or life of the person/person.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u563	Thank you. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u564	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor on the occasion of my proposal in art. 34, para. 1, t. 4 the word "detention' is replaced by the words "to take action to deter, dispose, neutralize'. This proposal of mine has not been accepted, but I believe that this is a mistake for several reasons. First, detention is a criminal legal concept and this specialized military structure should not be given powers under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, read the text as proposed: retention of the security-threatening person who disobeys. How long do you think they'll be able to hold him? In the Act for the Ministry of Interior, such authority was granted to the Ministry of Interior and was limited to 24 hours. There's no limit here. And depending on the specific situation, they could hold him for an indefinite period of time, which would be a violation not of the Law, but of the Constitution! Therefore, in my opinion, it is absolutely wrong to use the concept of detention in this Law. Therefore, I ask you to support my proposal, which will be correct, gives the opportunity. Of course, the specifics of the work of this service require that they have such opportunities so that they can protect the protected person, use aids, special techniques, techniques and so on. But keeping it, that's too much, and it would create a danger of arbitrariness. I'd like to make a suggestion by para. 7, because Mr. Enchev, in my opinion, made one mistake in speed. I propose in para. 7 to drop the second sentence. The first sentence is absolutely correct. The first sentence states: it is prohibited to use physical force, aids, special techniques and techniques in relation to visible minors and pregnant women. That's correct. And the next sentence already poses a danger that this ban does not apply in the case of riots. If the woman is clearly pregnant and disorderly, what will they do to her from the Security Service, forgive me? That's unacceptable. So I'm proposing to drop the second sentence in para. 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u565	The line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u566	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Atanasov, we will support your proposal, but we do not agree with one thing. This is also true when my colleague Valentin Kasabov spoke. What is the meaning of visible pregnant and visible underage? What if the action happens in the dark hours of the day? There is no such concept as visible and invisible. The identity of the persons shall be established in the appropriate order after submission of identity documents. Moreover, behind you is the colleague Svetlana Angelova, who well knows the Child Protection Act, and knows that minors after a certain hour are required by law to move with escorts. Depending on the age and the time at which they must be accompanied. If they do not comply with their obligation and requirement under art. 45 their parents, or guardians, or adoptive parents are subject to an extremely severe penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u567	By which law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u568	The Child Protection Act, Mr. Daniel Kirilov. There's no such thing as visible and invisible. Therefore, we propose that this word "visible" be deleted, as it is practically not applicable and allows for abuse of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u569	Will you use the hole, Mr. Atanasov? No. Any other MPs? Mr. Lazarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u570	Madam President, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking on texts that we debated in the Commission, but still. The detention is not a criminal term. The criminal term or, rather, the criminal legal term is......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The detention is also a term written in the Constitution. No one can be held for a period longer than 24 hours, except in cases governed by law. Third, the detention is a term used in the Criminal Code. Each citizen is obliged to keep the person in custody and to hand him over to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the event of an apparent crime. Fourth, the term "detention" is known and used in the Law, which regulates private security activities. There, too, is held. So that's a term that's familiar. The detention in the Ministry of Interior Act is the so-called administrative detention and it goes according to the Administrative Code, its appeal and so on, has nothing to do with criminal law a person who has no identity documents is resisting the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. So, the term "retaining" in practice means not allowing the person, limiting his right of movement, which Mr. Atanasov has practically given explanatoryly. The term is known and accepted in civility. As far as the detention period is concerned, you will look at it from there. I am doing this as a statement, art. 36 Next, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall be notified immediately to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, medical examinations shall be carried out, i.e. the rights and obligations shall be the same as those of the Ministry of Interior Act, which is why I will ask you to support the text as proposed in the version of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u571	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's procedural proposal to vote separately. 3 and para. Article 7 34. 90 MPs voted: 10, against 57, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's motion to reject para. 3 and the whole al. 7, as its proposal, the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 84 MPs: for 6, against 59, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Enchev's proposal. 2 everywhere the words "helpful funds" to be dropped, the Commission does not support it. They voted 83 MPs: for 4, against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Atanas Atanasov's proposal, the Commission does not support it. Vote 85 MPs: 15 against 29, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the editorial proposals made in the plenary, under art. 34. The first at the time was Mr. Kasabov's proposal. I do not allow him to vote because it is not editorial and is outside the philosophy of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u572	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u573	Mr. Kasabov withdraws the offer. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov, which he proposes in art. 34, para. 1, t. 3 to be added at the end if the same does not endanger the health or life of the person (s). They voted 94 MPs: 14 against 28, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Atanasov's proposal in para. 7 to drop the second sentence They voted 96 MPs: 18, against 24, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 34 in the version of the Commission report. [[Heckling]] Mr. Bayraktarov, do you want me to drop the word?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u574	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u575	Cancel the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in para. 7 to be seen, and to remain only to underage children and pregnant women. We vote. They voted 91 MPs: 15 against 37, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Now we're voting art. 34 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 86, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u576	Under art. 35 has a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u577	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u578	Didn't Mr. Angel Naydenov withdraw all the proposals of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u579	I'm reporting, I'm not reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u580	He must report that the proposal is included in the report but is withdrawn and will not read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u581	Proposal by the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. (1) In the performance of their duties, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service may only use weapons where this is absolutely necessary: 1. in the case of armed assault or threat with weapons aimed at protected persons and objects; 2. to prevent kidnapping or to stop illegal imprisonment of a protected person; 3. when crossing terrorist or other common dangerous acts with possible serious consequences; 4. after a notice of detention, when it exercises armed resistance; 5. to stop a means of transport through its damage when its driver poses a real threat to the safety of the protected persons or objects or there is a danger to the life and health of people. (2) The officers and sergeants of the National Military Service shall do whatever is necessary to protect the life of the person against whom the weapon is directed and shall not endanger the life and health of others. (3) The officers and sergeants shall cease the use of weapons immediately after its lawful purpose has been achieved. (4) After the use of a weapon, the officer or sergeant shall prepare a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u582	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 35. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. Article 35 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u583	Under art. 36 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 1 the word "Staying' is replaced by "Staying' to take action to deter, dispose and neutralize. In para. 3 the word "detention' shall be replaced by "in the exercise of the measures'. In the exercise of the measures of the person under para 4 is amended as follows: 1 a medical examination is carried out. In para. 5 the words "the person in custody' shall be replaced by "the person in relation to whom measures have been taken'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) In carrying out the tasks assigned, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall detain a person when: 1. has committed an offence against a guarded person or guarded object; 2. by his actions or with the objects carried by him creates a real danger to the protected person or object or in the secure area under art. 26 and all other legal means are exhausted. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service can also carry out a personal search in a way that does not undermine the honour and dignity of the person detained. A search may only be carried out by a person belonging to the sex of searches. (3) When holding a person under para. 1 The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall immediately notify the competent police authorities and in the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 1 shall also notify the Prosecutor's Office. Only the right to free movement shall be temporarily restricted until the police authorities of the person in custody arrive. (4) A medical examination shall be carried out on the person detained. (5) The person in custody shall be entitled to a telephone call to report his detention. (6) A protocol shall be drawn up for the transfer of the person in custody to the competent police authorities containing: 1. own, fatherly and surname of the maker and his office; 2. date of drawing up the minutes; 3. hour, date and place of detention; 4. a description of the circumstances in which the person was detained; 5. a description of the items found by the detained person if a search has been carried out; 6. the names of the person who has been detained, CNN/LCH, permanent or current address; 7. the explanations or objections of the person detained, if any; 8. own, paternal and family name, NGN, permanent or current address of witnesses, in the presence of such; 9. Signature of the maker. (7) The minutes shall be drawn up in three copies, respectively for the maker, the police authority and the person detained, after which the person and articles referred to in para. 6, p. 5 shall be transmitted to the police authority. (8) The order of exercise of the powers of detention shall be determined by instruction of the Head of the National Security Service and those relating to the interaction between the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service and the police authorities shall be determined by an instruction issued jointly by the Minister of Interior and the Head of Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u584	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u585	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, although one of the previous texts you have accepted the National Security Service to have the right to retain, I am obliged, from a professional point of view, to go out again on the stand, as the same concept is used here, and to tell you that this is unconstitutional. I don't understand why this stubbornness? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll tell you why it's unconstitutional. I just have to read you the Constitution: Art. 30. (2) No one may be detained, examined, searched or otherwise violated on his or her privacy, except under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down by law. (3) In cases expressly referred to by law, the competent state authorities may detain a citizen of which they immediately notify the judicial authorities. Where does it say they're notifying the judicial authorities? That's another topic. Let me ask you: is there a text that informs the judicial authorities? I'm not going into dialogue with people who have a different profession. I'm telling you that a detention is a criminal term. It is not for a reason that the Constitution deals specifically with the text, as this is the most serious restriction of personal freedom and privacy. It can only be done in cases determined by law, and that is when an act has been committed, which must be notified to the judiciary. You force me to read the last paragraph that has just been reported: The order for the exercise of detention powers shall be determined by instruction of the Head of the National Security Service,... The Constitution has said law and we in the law say instruction to the head of the National Security Service! Do you understand what this is about?! As you wish. I'll read you al. 4. Everyone has the right to legal protection from the moment of his detention or of his involvement as a defendant. Where are the rights of the detainee guaranteed in this law, where?! I don't want to go into this verbal fight any more, but I was obliged to give you a purely professional reference to the constitutional basis for detention in which cases this could happen and, I stress, with the permission of the judiciary. It is imperative that, in the event of detention, the judicial authority be notified immediately. These guarantees are not here, which opens the door to arbitrariness, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u586	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I made a statement because in these cases, I claim to have won all the lawsuits for illegal detention. He is absolutely right Mr. Atanasov, only I will add a few other details, there are so many respected lawyers here, I don't know why they didn't take them into account when drafting the Law. Mr. Atanasov, not only do you have the right to protection, but those who have detained you, if you cannot contact a defender, are obliged to provide you with a professional defender. And they have to have a list of phone numbers for service defenders. It is then recorded in the relevant article that, when transmitting to the police authorities, they shall draw up a protocol. Honourable Members, illegal detention shall be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. In order to appeal this illegal detention, there must be a restraining order that I must keep and the particular props. Only one of these props missing from the warrant, you've already won the case. I've won three cases like this. Then there is liability under the State's liability law and the municipalities of damages. Very serious omissions and vices that violate human rights are found in these texts. Very serious! Because if there's no warrant, I ask how will a person defend his rights? On the basis of what administrative act, since the Protocol does not constitute an administrative act? On what grounds? This is where I ask the honorable lawyers to answer. There's no reason for that. Therefore, it should at least be added that after submitting the police authorities they draw up a detention order, which we now need to begin to list what props there are, but I believe in art. 68 of the Ministry of Interior Act is best, or 70 after the changes to save time, which must meet the conditions of art. 70 of the Ministry of Interior Act in order to protect citizens' rights. Otherwise, believe me, colleagues, Bulgaria will be crushed by such cases for violation of human rights. Crushed! Believe me, we are going to be opening up so much work at the European Court of Human Rights that I don't want to think about it. And usually on these cases, the lowest compensation that is awarded is in the order of 5,000. Euros. The lowest. Not to mention that a prosecutor is also notified separately about 24-hour detention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u588	It says so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u589	No, it doesn't say here that a prosecutor is being notified. [[GERB lines.]] It's written by the authorities of the judiciary. You see how many vices there are. I hope you recorded my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u590	No, I didn't, so I'm gonna have to ask you to introduce him to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u591	Couldn't you write it down? I'll write it down and introduce it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u592	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u593	Yeah, I'll be brief again, Back to the old term. Colleagues, whether one person will use one term of detention or temporarily limit the right to move is the same. If you look at the cases under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, there is talk of a time limit on the right to movement. And then you'll see art. 36, actually, in art. 35 We talked about detention, here we speak only and only the right to move is limited. Of course, when transmitted immediately, the police authorities shall be notified and a protocol shall be drawn up establishing the physical condition of the person and so on. The colleague who just spoke, Mr. Bayraktarov, but the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, when they are handed over this person, have opportunities. One is to draw up already under the Ministry of Interior Act the corresponding detention order for a period of 24 hours, and the second option is to immediately request a 72-hour detention measure, so we do not make sense in this law to repeat the obligations that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have under the Ministry of Interior Act. The point of the protocol is to see that this person is passed on to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. There's no way the National Security Service can do whatever the Ministry of Interior is doing. Here's the Penal Code. 12a that citizens are also entitled to carry out such detention in an apparent crime and pass it on to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. So, what now, do the citizens also have to issue an order? The idea is that until the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of this person will stop moving.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u594	- What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u595	Mr. Lazarov, you really don't want to know that there is a pass in the text of the Law. I don't know why you insist. However, I will try again to remind you, because at some point in the Ministry of Interior's system, the so-called Instruction for Security-Constitutional Activity has been acting. Fortunately, it was canceled. It was adopted on the cult date 8 December 2006 by a former Interior Minister. Good thing it was canceled. It was canceled precisely because it contained all these vices and Bulgaria paid another hundreds of thousands of euros in compensation. In your text it is written that they draw up a protocol. And now, pay attention to the one who has to issue an order, must write that he has detained. We need to sign a witness to the arrest. That's why I'm trying to explain. [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] And don't call there because you're not in Gabrovo! Is that clear?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u596	Quiet, please! Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u597	Is that clear? Don't call! And make a note of it, because all the time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u598	I just did, if you'd heard me. Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u599	I'm not gonna listen to you all night! If you don't like it, go away! [[Comments from GERB. The speaker turns off the microphone, the public representative continues to speak with the microphone turned off.]] I hope you understand. I'm not doing this because I want to, but because we've investigated hundreds of cases like this. There is nothing wrong with regulating this in the Law. And control your nerves, Mister... [[The President turns off the microphone, the speaker continues to speak with the microphone off. Replies from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u600	Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor for a second line. [[Replications between the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Tsvetomir Mihov. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u601	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, we're all tired, but the lyrics are important, and we're not gonna solve things in this room. Mr. Lazarov, with all due respect to you, you're telling me that after the arrest of the person with a protocol from the NSA, he was handed over to the Ministry of Interior. The Constitution says the judiciary must be informed immediately! Do you understand what this is about? Not to mention that I do not want to get into an argument with you now, because it does not belong in this Law, detention within 72 hours is not a measure of determination. [[Radio, noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u602	Order, please! Excuse me, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u603	I think we have a problem with using that term in the Law. You can vote on it, but the risks remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u604	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Lazarov, come in for the back. [[Noise, disputes between the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and MPs from GERB.]] Please, the Quaestors, calm some of the MPs, or else I'll have to calm them down. [[Controversials continue.]] Mr. Petrov, Mr. Tachev, please calm down in the hall. [[The disputes continue. Replies from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u605	The debate continues! A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u606	I'll be very brief. Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Atanasov,... [[The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov spoke with MPs from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u607	Mr. Bayraktarov, listen now Mr. Lazarov wants to make a duplicate. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u608	Thank you. Obviously, there's no need for debate. Everyone understands this simple legal terminology. That was for the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u609	I understand you're done with your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u610	Mr. Atanasov's proposal I will repeat again, the term "detention" means limiting the right to move. Whether or not we are going to say the right of movement is the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u611	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. We get it. Are there any other MPs for speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Atanas Atanasov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 16 against 47, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal in art. 36, para. 6 After the words, a protocol shall be drawn up to add the words, and an order shall be issued under art. 70 of the Ministry of Interior Act. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. Vote 98 MPs: 14 against 73, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 36 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The member has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u612	Under art. 37 has a proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. Chapter 7 - The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Under art. 38 has a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38. Proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 39. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u613	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote art. 37 supported by the Commission, the Head of the Court of Justice of the employees and art. 38. We're voting Anblok. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u614	Under art. 39 has a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreyev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. (1) For officers and sergeants in the National Security Service, adults shall be accepted only with Bulgarian citizenship who meet the general and specific requirements for age, education, psychological suitability, professional training and competence after holding a competition under conditions and by order laid down by the rules for implementing the law. (2) Applicants for officers and sergeants shall meet the following requirements: 1. to have a higher education with an educational-qualification degree not lower than the Bachelors and a secondary or higher education for the sergeants; 2. not be older than 34 years for officers, and 32 years for sergeants, except for posts appointed by the head of the National Security Service; 3. be fit for the relevant direction of activity established by the military medical authorities of the Military Medical Academy; 4. be psychologically adapted, which is determined by a specialized unit of the National Psychological Insurance Service or on the basis of concluded agreements with institutions or departments entitled to conduct psychological research. (3) No persons shall be appointed as officers and sergeants: 1. convicted of a deliberate crime of general nature, regardless of rehabilitation, or exempted from criminal liability for a deliberate crime of general nature with the imposition of administrative punishment under art. 78a of the Penal Code; 2. attracted as defendants or defendants for a deliberate crime of a general nature; 3. deprived of the right to exercise a particular profession or activity where necessary for the performance of the job for which they apply. (4) The appointment of civil servants to the National Security Service shall be carried out when the applicant meets the requirements of art. 7 of the Law on the Civil Service and under the terms and conditions of the same law. (5) Adult persons shall only be appointed for work on a employment relationship with Bulgarian citizenship, for which there are no circumstances under para. 3. (6) Only persons authorised to access classified information may be appointed in positions for which authorisation is required. (7) The requirement under para. 2, p. 2 does not apply to persons whose service as soldiers, in a security service or public order has been terminated up to one year before applying for a job in the National Security Service. Under art. 40 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40. Under art. 41 The proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreyev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 41 to be rejected. Under art. 42 The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, but the proposal has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. (1) The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be prohibited from being members of political parties, movements and coalitions for political purposes, developing or participating in any form in political activity, carrying out propaganda, campaigning and taking actions that violate their political neutrality. (2) The employees of para. 1 shall not be entitled to union action and strike. (3) The employees of para. 1 cannot refuse to fulfil their duties on religious, atheistic, political and ideological motives. (4) State officials and employees working in the employment relationship shall not be able to engage in political activity or to express political views on employment. They may establish and join trade unions. They are not entitled to an effective strike. Under art. 43 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 42. Under art. 44 The proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 43: Art. 44. Incompatibility with the National Security Service is also available: 1. in the event of violation of the prohibitions under Article 1. 41; 2. when an employee of the National Security Service under art. 38, para. 1 is in an immediate hierarchic relationship of management and control with another employee under art. 38, para. 1, as a husband, a straight-line relative, on a boardline to the fourth degree, including or by matchmaking to the second degree, including. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs: A new article is being created. 44a.. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 44: Art. 44. (1) The employees shall declare in accordance with the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest any private interest they have in connection with the functions of the structural unit in which they work. (2) The staff shall not participate in the discussion, preparation and decision-making where they or their related persons are interested in the decision concerned or where they have any relationship with the persons concerned giving reasonable doubt to their impartiality. (3) In the cases under para. 2 officials shall notify the Chief of the National Security Service in writing. Under art. 45 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. Under art. 46 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46. Under art. 47 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. Under art. A proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48: Art. 48. (1) In the case of appointment the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall submit declarations of their assets and income, as well as the absence of circumstances under art. 41, para. Art. 1-3, Art. 42 and 43 and persons working under the labour force for their property and income and for the absence of circumstances under art. 41, para. Art. 4 and art. 43, according to samples approved by the head of the National Security Service. (2) Every year until 30 April the employees under para. 1 submit a declaration of their assets and income according to a model approved by the head of the National Security Service and in case of change of circumstance under art. 39, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 41, 42 and 43 shall submit a declaration within 7 days of the change. (3) State officials of the National Security Service shall declare their property status according to art. 29, para. 3 of the State Employee Act. Under art. A proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49. Under art. 50 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. Under art. 51 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 51: Art. 51. (1) In the case of appointment of a service to the National Security Service of the employees under art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 the following titles shall be assigned: 1. Sergeant's rank. Junior Sergeant. Sergeant. Sergeant Major. Petty Officer Senior Petty Officer - 1st grade Chief Petty Officer - 2nd grade 2. Junior officer's rank. Lieutenant. Senior Lieutenant. Captain 3. Senior officers' ranks Major LTL-Col Colonel 4. High Officers Brigadier General Maj-Gen Lieutenant General (2) The Head of the Service shall assign the titles under para. 1, t. 1-3, raises and decreases in rank. (3) In the case of the appointment of officers and sergeants to the National Security Service to whom titles have been assigned under this or other laws, they shall be declared no lower than the rank held. (4) The final titles for the posts and the term of service in each title shall be determined by the Head of the National Security Service. Under art. 52 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. Under art. 53 The proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 53: Art. 53. (1) For each employee of the National Security Service shall be made up and conducted a service. (2) The conditions and procedures for drawing up, keeping and keeping the work, and for the provision of documents thereof shall be laid down by the Rules of Application of the Law. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u615	So much for ending this chapter. Colleagues, are there any statements on members with numbers from 39 including 53? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals under Articles 39 to 53 inclusive. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u616	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Under art. 54 The proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 54: Art. 54. In the performance of their duties, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service carry weapons in order appointed by the Head of Service. Under art. 55 The proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55: Art. 55. (1) The performance of the duties of the National Security Service shall be based on the principles of legality, loyalty, responsibility, stability, political unties, hierarchical subordination and unitary. (2) In the performance of their duties the employees of the National Security Service shall be subject only to the Constitution, the law and the orders of their superiors. (3) The staff shall be obliged to protect classified information representing state or official secrecy, as well as information on the personal life of the guard and his family known to them during or on the occasion of the performance of the duties. (4) The staff shall not make statements on behalf of the National Security Service except with the explicit consent of its superior. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57. Under art. 58 "A proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. Under art. A proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59: Art. 59. (1) The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be required at any time of the day to be available for the performance of their duties. (2) The requirements for fulfilling the obligation under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly 61 drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 61 to be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Under art. 62 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62, which becomes Art. 61: Art. 61. (1) The professional training, training and qualification of the staff of the National Security Service shall be carried out under conditions and in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (2) Staff from other bodies and organisations may also be trained at the National Security Service training centre on the basis of agreements concluded. (3) Under the conditions of para. 2 officials from state bodies and organisations of other countries may be trained. Under art. 63 has a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 62. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 63: Art. 63. The gross remuneration of the employees of the National Security Service consists of basic monthly remuneration and additional remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u617	Colleagues, speeches on Chapter Eight, Section I to IV? This is from Chapter Eight to Art. 64 included. Are there any speeches? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposals. As the numbering is missed at one point, members up to 64 have been reported, including by importer, the latter becomes art. 63 on the report. That's what we're voting on right now. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u618	Under art. 65 has a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: Art. 65, para. 4 t. 2 et c. 3 the words given by her superior shall be replaced by the Council of Ministers; Art. 65, para. 4 t. 5 to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 65, para. 4 the following changes are proposed: - in t. 2 the words at the end of the sentence, determined by her superiors, shall be dropped, and in their place shall be added, as determined by the Council of Ministers at the proposal of her superiors. - in t. 3 words at the end of the sentence, determined by the head of the service, are dropped, adding, in their place, as defined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the chief of the office. - in t. 5 after the words, the work of the Ministry is a dash and is added, under conditions and in the amount specified by the Council of Ministers;............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u619	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote the unsupported proposals of Mr. Atanas Atanasov and Mr. Metodi Andreev. They voted 91 MPs: 14 against 32, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 65 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 64. They voted 83 MPs: 78, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u620	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 65. Under art. 67 has a proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 67 words are not subject to tax and are dropped. The words at the end of the second sentence, the head of the National Security Service, are dropped, adding the text, the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the head of the National Security Service. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u621	Statements under Articles 66 and 67 by importer? I won't. We are voting for Mr. Metodi Andreev's unsupported proposal. 90 MPs voted: 13 against 37, 40 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Anblok, we are voting on Articles 66 and 67 by importer, supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u622	Under art. 68 has a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 67: Art. 67. (1) The Chief of the National Security Service shall designate officers and sergeants who shall be provided with free work or uniform clothing, personal protective equipment, other property and equipment. (2) The Head of the National Security Service shall designate the staff involved in health-related activities and which shall be provided with free food, antidotes and other means, neutralising the harmful effects of the working environment. (3) Employees working 24-hour shifts shall be provided with food and soft drinks at work. (4) The Head of the National Security Service shall determine the type and model of uniformed clothing, the order for its provision and wear, as well as other accessories relating to the performance of the duties of officers and sergeants on which symbols and distinguishing marks of the National Security Service are placed. (5) The type and standards of the contentment under para. 1-3, the order and categories of employees to which they are provided shall be determined by the head of the National Security Service. (6) The value of the contentment under para. 1-3 shall not be taxed. There is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. 69 t. Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 69 t. 2 cancels out, as the text of the current item. 1 is added at the end of the first sentence after the words The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69, which becomes art. 68. Under art. 70 has a proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u623	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u624	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I have proposed to drop the item. 2 of art. 69, which reads: "The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be paid for travel expenses for going and returning from paid annual leave on the territory of the country for officers and sergeants and their family members. Decide by conscience if there are any other categories of civil servants who have such a privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u625	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Atanas Atanasov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 30, against 22, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: 10, against 19, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Articles 68, 69 and 70. The first in the version of the Commission, which becomes art. 67 and Articles 69 and 70 by importer, fully supported by the Commission, which become Articles 68 and 69. Vote 87 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u626	Under art. 71 has a proposal of Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71, which becomes art. 70: Art. 70, (1) The compulsory health insurance of officers, sergeants and civil servants of the National Security Service shall be at the expense of the state budget. (2) The staff of the National Security Service shall use the medical facilities of the Council of Ministers by order determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. (3) The employees of para. 2 and the members of their families shall use the medical, sanitarium and preventive establishments of the Ministry of Defence in order appointed by the Minister of Defence. Under art. 72 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72, para. 3 words for recreation and are dismissed, and at the end of the sentence the expression...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 71. Under art. 73 The Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become art. 72. "Department V ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Under art. 74 has a proposal of Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 73. Under art. 75 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75, which becomes Art. 74. Under art. 76 has a proposal by Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76, which becomes Art. 75. Under art. 77 has a proposal of Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 76. Under art. 78 has a proposal of Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 77. Under art. 79 The Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become art. 78.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u627	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u628	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to para. Art. 3 of art. 72, which reads as follows: The costs of recreation and reimbursement of employees and their family members shall be incurred at the expense of social and cultural support funds under the budget of the National Security Service in accordance with the order laid down by their superior. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked Where? What if this employee and his family decide to go to recovery and rest in Dubai, do we have to rebuild this part? He can go here there's good practice of Varadero, in Lumoris, in Paris. I want to ask you: do we have to recover these costs? Because they are not NSOs, but are paid by the Bulgarian taxpayer. Then I ask: where to and his family?! Are they also entrusted with such functions of the National Security Service? Leaving, it's okay to leave a family, only the taxpayer doesn't have to pay the cost of recreation and recovery, unknown where. Therefore, Madam President, I am making editorial proposals concerning art. 72, para. 3. The text should sound like this:........................................................................................ The words are deleted and the members of their families are deleted and the text continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u629	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal for editorial in art. 72, para. 3. This proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 14 against 24, abstention 58. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for editing of art. 72, para. 3. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. Vote 79 MPs: 28 against 20, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal under Articles 71 by importer to 79 by importer. We are voting on the Commission's proposals. Vote 96 MPs: 90 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u630	Under art. 80 has a proposal from Atanas Atanasov: Art. 80, para. 1, t. 1 the words "Citizen's marriage" shall be inserted and the words "Citizen's marriage" shall be deleted. After the supposed period of seven calendar days, the family shall be deleted; c. 4 after "Consequences"... 7 calendar days................................................................................................... is A new para is being created. 2: For the holidays under point 2. 1, 2 and 4 shall apply the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service Officer. Alinea 2 becomes al. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs has been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 79, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend this Regulation by means of
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u631	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u632	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am reading the text that we are about to vote on and the proposals that I have made: Art. 80, para. 1 reads: The Chief of the National Security Service is obliged to release an officer or sergeant from his duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u633	Don't read it to us, we've got it in front of us. Give your suggestions, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u634	Let the people know what this is about, Madam President. I suggest that the texts be dismissed that, when entering into a civil marriage, at birth or adoption of a child in the family, or in a severe illness, or death of a parent and so on, seven-hour leave days. I have absolutely correctly proposed to create a new para. 2; for leave under these texts to apply the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service Officer, that is to say, for all other civil servants, this should also be for the staff of the NSO. I'm sorry, but for a marriage of seven days. I think they should give them more, but... [[Heckling]] There's no other case like this. A very joyful event is the birth of a child or the adoption of a child, but no one else in the country is given seven days' leave for it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u635	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Atanasov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 38, against 13, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. Art. 80, which becomes Art. 79, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 78, is replaced by Art. 77. Vote 81 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u636	Under art. 80 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov the proposal has been passed. The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs has been made. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 81, which becomes Art. 80: Art. 80. (1) At the written request of the officer or sergeant, the head of the National Security Service may authorise the use of unpaid leave after taking the paid leave. (2) Unpaid leave up to 30 working days in one calendar year shall be recognised as service experience. (3) For participation in a competition for taking office outside the National Security Service, no consent of its superior shall be required, with the officer or sergeant entitled to unpaid leave for the days of participation in the contest and up to two days of travel when the contest is held in another settlement. The leave shall be regarded as a service experience. Under art. 82 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 81. Under art. 83 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 82. Under art. 84 there is a proposal by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84, which becomes Art. 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 85, which becomes art. 84: Art. 84. The Head of the National Security Service may award the staff for high performance and for a specific substantial contribution in the performance of their duties under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 86, which becomes Art. 85. Chapter nine. The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs has been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 9. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Under art. 87 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 87, which becomes Art. 86: Art. 86. A violation of professional discipline is the guilty failure by the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service to protect the provisions of this law and the regulations issued on its basis, internal rules, orders and orders of their superiors. Under art. 88 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 87. Under art. 89 there is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs the proposal has been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 89, which becomes Art. 88. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90, which becomes Art. 89, as in c. 17 words.............................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Under art. 91 has a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs has been submitted. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 91, which becomes Art. 90: Art. 90. The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be subject to the following disciplinary penalties: 1. reprimand; 2. strict reprimand; 3. a downgrading warning; 4. a reduction of one degree for a period of 6 months to one year; 5. notice of dismissal; 6. Fire. Under art. 92 there is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92, which becomes Art. 91. Under art. 93 has a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93, which becomes Art. 92, as in para. 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend this Regulation by means of Under art. 94 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94, which becomes Art. 93. Under art. 95 there is a proposal from Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 95, which becomes Art. 94: Art. 94. (1) The disciplinary penalty shall be imposed in the following cases: 1. conviction of a deliberate crime of general nature or deprivation of the right to hold a state office or to exercise the profession or activity; 2. violation of the limitations and incompatibility of Chapter 7; 3. failure to provide a declaration under the order of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 4. systematic violations of the rules on the protection of classified information which led to unauthorised access within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information; 5. absence of work without respect for reasons in two consecutive working days; 6. abuse of the office; 7. appearance of the officer and sergeant in a state that prevents him from fulfilling his duties caused by the use of alcohol or drug abuse. (2) In cases of suspension under the Code of Criminal Procedure where the officer or sergeant is convicted of a deliberate crime of general nature, the disciplinary penalty shall be imposed from the date of removal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 96, which becomes Art. 95: Art. 95. (1) The disciplinary penalties, with the exception of dismissal, shall be deleted after the expiry of: 1. six months from the imposition of punishments.......................................................................................................... 2. nine months from the imposition of the penalty 3. one year from the imposition of the penalties, a one-degree reduction and a one-level notice of dismissal. (2) The deletion shall be carried out by appropriate marking in the official case of penalties. (3) The disciplinary penalties, with the exception of dismissal, may be deleted before the expiry of the time limits under para. 1, t. 2 and 3, if the officer or sergeant within 6 months of the imposition of disciplinary penalties has not committed any other violation of his duties. (4) The early deletion under para. 3 shall be carried out on the basis of a reasoned written order of the head of the National Security Service, which shall be served on the employee and shall be annexed to the service file. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Under art. 97 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97, which becomes Art. 96. Under art. 98 has a proposal by Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98, which becomes Art. 97. Under art. 99 has a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99, which becomes art. 98. Under art. 100 has a proposal by Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100, which becomes art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, which becomes Art. 100, like the words "c." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 101. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 103, which becomes art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u637	Articles 104, 105, 106 by importer are supported by the Commission by numbers 103, 104 and 105 respectively. That's it! Are there any speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Shout, noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u638	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 97, para. 2 I would like to make an editorial amendment, because this text is so written that it actually places these employees in a very interesting situation. To make it clear mostly to the people who are following the Law, in art. 97 is recorded: The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service are responsible for the damage they have caused to the state due to negligence or due to the performance of their duties. In para. 2 For damage caused to citizens under the conditions of para. One, the employees...........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u639	They're not wearing any.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u640	We're erasing it for damage caused to citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u641	This is a general principle in law, Mr. Bayraktarov. Okay, we'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u642	... they bear responsibility to the State. We are also erasing the word "damaged" to the state, so that the state can still take responsibility for these employees. From then on, the text remains. We're erasing the particle and the word "damaged" so that after all these...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u643	Mr. Bajraktarov, the next sentence sounds: In these cases the state is obliged to compensate damages for all property and non-material damage, according to the general rules of civil law and under the general rules of civil law it has a regression towards the employee concerned. But we're not going into this debate. You're suggesting it falls off. I'm putting it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u644	That's right. Now let's not go into interpretation, because there is another law that is outside of civil relations and you know very well who it is. And in order for the text to be cleared, I suggest this minimal amendment, which makes the text function much better.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u645	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal you made. Vote 87 MPs: 9 against 46 abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals on the texts of Articles 81 to 106 including, together with the names of the relevant chapters and sections between these texts. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u646	Chapter 10th "The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. "Department I". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Under art. 107 has a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 107 is replaced by the following: 106, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by Under art. 108 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 108, which becomes art. 107: Art. 107. (1) In the absence of an employee of the National Security Service, the performance of his duties shall be carried out by the immediate supervisor or by another officer of appropriate competence. (2) A replacement order shall be issued by the head of the National Security Service on the basis of a request from the immediate head of the absent official. (3) The procedure under para. 1 and 2 shall not apply to persons who are alternates of the holder by post. (4) When absence is more than 30 working days, with the order under para. 2 a period of not more than 6 months shall be fixed and the person receives a monthly remuneration of the basic monthly remuneration for the higher post. Under art. 109 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 109, which becomes Art. 108: Art. 108. (1) In the event of an unoccupied position, the head of the National Security Service may designate an employee to carry out internal reconciliation work for a period until the appointment of the holder. (2) The term under para. 1 may not be longer than 6 months. (3) In the case of para. 1 the employee receives, together with his remuneration, and 25 per cent of the minimum amount of the basic monthly remuneration for the vacant post. Under art. 110 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 110 to be rejected. Under art. 111 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 111, which shall become Article 111. 109: Art. 109. (1) Officers and sergeants may be reassigned at their written request or at the proposal of the respective Deputy Chief of the National Security Service, to a position intended for the occupation of persons under art. 38, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 only if they qualify for the position concerned. (2) Reassignment under para. 1 shall be carried out with an order under art. 46. Section II - Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Under art. 112 has a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 112, which shall become Article 112. 110. Under art. 113 has a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 113, which becomes Art. 111: Art. 111. (1) The promotion shall take place when the minimum period of stay has expired on the basis of an attestation by an assessment of the performance of the post by the officer or sergeant, unless he has reached the limit of title for the post he holds. (2) The attestation shall be carried out annually by a system of pre-established criteria assessing the achievement of the specified objectives, the degree of performance of the duties and the professional competences of the officer or sergeant. (3) The assessment of the performance of the post by the officer or sergeant shall be motivated based on objectively established facts and circumstances. (4) The officer or the sergeant shall be made aware of his assessment on which he may express a written opinion. (5) The system of criteria, conditions and order of attestations shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. Under art. 114 has a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114, which becomes Art. 112. Section III of the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Under art. 115 has a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115, which becomes art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 116, which becomes Art. 114, as in para. 3 words.............................................................................. 22, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 24, para. 1.................................................................................. "Department IV". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. Under art. 117 has a proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 117, which becomes Art. 115: Art. 115. (1) An employee of the National Security Service may be temporarily suspended from work by its superior when: 1. is in a procedure for the establishment of disciplinary infringement; 2. shall appear in a state which shall not permit him to carry out his duties; in this case the suspension may be carried out by the immediate supervisor and shall continue until the staff member has regained his fitness for the performance of his duties. (2) An employee of the National Security Service may be temporarily removed from office and under the order of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (3) In all cases, when an employee is brought intodictment for a crime committed by him as an official within the meaning of the Criminal Code, the head of the National Security Service shall suspend him from work. (4) The employee shall not receive remuneration for the time during which he was suspended. (5) When disciplinary proceedings under para. 1, t. 1 shall be terminated or, where no disciplinary penalty is imposed, the employee shall be paid the remuneration for the period of suspension. (6) Upon termination of criminal proceedings or acquittal, the staff member who is suspended from office shall be reimbursed and paid the remuneration for the period of suspension. Chapter 11 "The proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. Under art. 118 has a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 118, which becomes art. 116: Art. 116. (1) The service of the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be terminated: 1. by mutual agreement, such as the party to which the proposal is made in writing, is obliged to take regard to it and to notify the other party within 30 days, and if it does not do so, the proposal shall be deemed not to have been accepted; 2. at the request of the employee; 3. at the end of the service age limit for: (a) an officer with a senior officer's rank of 59 years; (b) an officer of the rank of a member of the Board of Directors and a senior officer of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of (c) Sergeants 4. in the event of the acquisition of a pension for internship and age or for 27 years of internship, of which two thirds are actually served as an officer or sergeant of the National Security Service or to posts under art. 69, para. 1-3 of the Social Security Code; 5. in the event of infirmity for service in the National Security Service established by the military medical authorities under art. 141, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. in case of psychological inability to serve in the National Security Service established by the authorities under art. 141, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria; 7. in the event of failure or refusal of the staff member to take up the post on which he is reinstated, within 14 days of the entry into force of the judgment to revoke the order for termination of service, unless that period is met for respectable reasons; 8. in the case of reduction of the state; 9. where the officer or the sergeant does not receive the permission required for the post to access classified information or where his permission is revoked; 10. in cases of incompatibility under Article 10. 42, para. 3; 11. where deprivation of the right to exercise a particular profession or activity as an administrative penalty or as a punishment under the Criminal Code leads to the failure to carry out the post held; 12. in the case of conviction of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 13. in the event of disciplinary punishment 14. with the death of the employee; 15. unilaterally by the Head of Service, within one year of amendment of the relationship with the order under art. 106; 16. obtaining the lowest overall assessment of the performance of the post in the attestation under art. 111; 17 within the term referred to in art. 47 At the discretion of the head of the National Security Service after an assessment of the performance of the post. (2) In the event of establishment of the fact under para. 1, t. 5, the staff member shall be offered another position suitable for his health. If he refuses, the service is terminated. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 119, which becomes Art. 117: Art. 117. (1) Upon termination of the service under art. 116, para. 1, t. 4-6, 8, 15, 16 and 17 The head of the National Security Service shall give written notice for a period of 30 days. In the event of termination of the service without notice or where the period of notice is not respected, compensation shall be paid to the employee for the duration of the notice not paid. (2) Upon termination of the service at the written request of the official of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 orders shall be issued within the term under para. 1. (3) Upon termination of the service under art. 116, para. 1, t. 3, 7, 9, 10-13 notice is not given. (4) The Head of the National Security Service shall not terminate the service with a pregnant woman or with the sole parent of a child who is not three years old in the cases referred to in art. 118, para. 1, t. 8..................................................... Under art. 120 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group that has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 120, which becomes art. 118: Art. 118. (1) The relationship with an officer or sergeant shall be terminated by order of the Chief of the National Security Service. (2) The order under para. 1 shall be served against a signature of the staff member, marking the date of service. If the order cannot be served on the employee, it shall be sent to his permanent address with a registered letter with a return receipt. (3) The service relationship shall be terminated: Article 1 116, para. 1, t. 1 and 13 from the date of service of the order, and if the order cannot be served on the officer from the date of sending his permanent address with a registered letter with a return note; Art. 2. 116, para. 1, t. 4-6, 8, 15, 16 and 17 at the expiry of the notice and in case of non-compliance with the notice period, the expiry of the relevant part of the notice period; Art. 3. 116, para. 1, t. 2, 10-12 from the date of issue of the order; Art. 4. 116, para. 1, t. 3 and 14 from the date of the event; Art. 5. 116, para. 1, t. 7 from the expiry of the established period. (4) When a temporary officer or sergeant is sentenced by an effective sentence or a disciplinary penalty is imposed on him, his service shall be suspended from the day of his dismissal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 121, which becomes Art. 119: Art. 119. (1) The order to terminate the service may be appealed under the order and within the time limit laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) The application of the order shall not stop its execution. Under art. 122 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group that has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122, which becomes Art. 120. Under art. 123 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group that has been withdrawn. There's a proposal from Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. Article 123, which becomes Art. 121: Art. 121. (1) Upon termination of the service of the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be paid a lump sum payment of as much gross monthly remuneration as they have served years, but not more than 20. (2) Upon further termination of the service from the due compensation under para. 1 shall be deducted from the compensation received at the previous termination. (3) When the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service have served 10 years or more and their service is terminated on the grounds of art. 116, para. 1, t. 5, due to illness or disability in the event of or due to the performance of a service obligation, the amount of the lump sum shall not be less than 15 gross monthly remuneration. (4) Upon termination of the service under the conditions of para. 3, where the time served is less than 10 years, the one-off monetary compensation shall amount to 10 gross monthly remuneration. (5) Upon termination of the service after 10 years of service in the National Security Service, officers and sergeants shall be entitled to one-off additional property or equivalent. (6) The provisions of para. 1-5 shall not apply in the event of termination of service due to the imposition of disciplinary action. (7) In the event of the death of an officer or sergeant, the sums under para. 1-5 shall be paid to its heirs. (8) The compensations under para. 1-5 and para. 7 shall not be subject to taxes. Under art. 124 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group that has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, which is reflected as § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 124, which becomes Art. 122, like the words everywhere. The following points are inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: 121 (one hundred and twenty-one). Under art. 125 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group that has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 125, which becomes art. 123: Art. 123. In the event of unlawful termination of the service, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall be entitled to compensation in the amount of their gross monthly remuneration received before termination for the time they have been unemployed but for no more than 6 months. When they worked at a lower-paid job during that time, they were entitled to the difference in remuneration. Under art. 126 has a proposal from Merdjanov and a group that has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 126, which becomes Art. 124: Art. 124. (1) An officer or sergeant who has suffered bodily injury during or on the occasion of the performance of his duties during duty shall be paid a lump sum of 10 gross monthly salary for serious bodily injury and 6 gross monthly wages for average bodily injury determined on the day of the injury. (2) The wife (wife), the children and parents of an officer or sergeant who died in or on the occasion of the performance of his duties shall be paid a lump sum of 12 gross monthly wages. (3) The nature of the bodily injury caused under para. 1 shall be determined by the military medical authorities under art. 141, para. 2 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and the circumstances of the death under para. 2 shall be certified by the direct superiors of the deceased. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127, which becomes Art. 125. There is a proposal from MPs Metodi Andreev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 6, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 7, Art. Article 9 12. "Chapters 12 and 12. " The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 128, which becomes art. 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129, which becomes Art. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 130, which becomes Art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 131, which becomes Art. 129. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 132, which becomes Art. 130, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 128-131' are replaced by "c'. 126-129
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u647	Statements? I won't. We vote on the Commission's proposals for Chapter 10, Section I, II, III, IV, Chapter 11, Chapter 12 by art. 132 by importer. We are voting on the committee's proposals. Voted 103 MPs: 99, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u648	"Additional provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. Paragraph 1. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. Special techniques and techniques are the skills acquired and improved during the specialized training and training in the National Security Service used to prevent and cross offenses against the persons and objects protected under this law. 2. The main structural units are the departments and separate units of direct subordination of the head of the National Security Service. 3. It is the information which is not a state secret but is related to the performance of the functions and tasks of the National Security Service and to the implementation of the powers of officers and sergeants or received as a result of this activity, the unauthorised access to which would negatively affect the interests and security of the State, the activities of the National Security Service, its employees in connection with the performance of their services or of third parties. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. Paragraph 2. Proposal by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) The existing relationships of officers, officers' candidates and sergeants in the National Security Service shall not be terminated, but shall be converted, respectively, into service under this law, into service under the Law on the Civil Service and in employment under the Labour Code. The signed military service contracts shall be terminated within thirty days of the date of entry into force of this Act. (2) The officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall retain their titles until the entry into force of this law of titles and degrees, and the officers' candidates shall be entitled to the rank of senior Petty Officer. (3) The officers, officers' candidates and sergeants who were entered into force on the date of entry into force of this Act shall retain the basic monthly and additional remuneration received for a continuous service, for specific working conditions and for work under health-threatening conditions. (4) The existing relationships of employees shall be converted into business relationships under the Law on the Civil Service Officer if the persons comply with the requirements of art. 7 and submit an application under art. 8 of the Law on the Civil Service within 14 days of the entry into force of the law or in employment under the Labour Code. (5) By the act of appointment of the civil servant: 1. the positions of the National Security Service shall be awarded in the classificationr of the positions of the minimum rank for the post held, unless the employee has a higher rank; 2. an individual basic monthly salary shall be determined which shall not be lower than the gross salary received until the time of reimbursement, including the basic monthly salary and the additional salary of a permanent nature. (6) The files established to seek disciplinary or financial responsibility against the National Security Service personnel shall be completed in the current order. (7) The officers, officers' candidates and sergeants of the National Security Service who have not taken their leave until the entry into force of this law may use them within one year from the date of its entry into force. (8) Additional funds for insurance contributions of the persons under para. 4 shall be provided within the framework of salaries, remuneration and insurance contributions to the budget of the National Security Service. (9) Unused leave of employees under art. 38, para. 1, t. 3 shall be retained and shall not be compensated by cash compensation. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. The amount of compensation for termination of the relationship due to the retirement of the officers and sergeants who have served the last 13 years and 4 months of posts under art. 122, para. 1 is determined by the sum of: 1. The years worked under Art. 1. 122, para. 1; 2. the years of the equalized work and service internship to the first category of work. Paragraph 3. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected. Paragraph 4. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. Paragraph 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Law on personal income taxes (promise, SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1: (aa) in the letter........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 67 of the National Security Service Act. (bb) a comma shall be placed in the letter of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the title for the National Security Service shall be added; (b) c. 4 after the words the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria is placed comma and the National Security Service Act is added; (c) c. 8 after the words the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 2 and 3, Art. Art. 121, Art. 124 of the National Security Service Act and a comma is placed; (d) c. 16 After the words the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria is added the monetary assistance under art. 69, para. 1 of the National Security Service Act and a comma is placed. 2. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions, i.e. 26 point (b) shall finally be a comma and added as well as the service between the head of the National Security Service, on the one hand, and the officers and sergeants on the other. Paragraph 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5. Paragraph 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. Paragraph 8. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In the Law on State Protocol (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The Office of State shall inform the Head of the National Security Service of the programmes for official meetings, visits and ceremonies with the participation of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister. Paragraph 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8. Paragraph 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9. Paragraph 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10. Paragraph 12. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected. The Commission proposes to create new § 11 and § 12: ..................................................... In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ....) in art. 301, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Security Service with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) shall be replaced by the following: 22 of the National Security Service Act. § 12. Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the rules for its implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u649	Statements, coworkers? I won't. We are voting for the name of the Additional provision and paragraphs 1 to 12 on the proposal and in the version of the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u650	Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. A new paragraph § 13 shall be set up in the Transitional and Final Provisions with the following text: , § 13. The provisions of this law cannot be interpreted as limiting the application of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The authorities under this law ensure full and unconditional cooperation with the Commission for disclosure of documents and declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u651	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 91 MPs: for 73, against 11, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u652	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u653	He'll have a new numbering. We are also creating work for the Financial Texts and because we supported Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to support § 13 by importer. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u654	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 14. Madam President, allow me to make an amendment to § 14, which is the last of this bill. It provides for the Law to enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. However, we have adopted in the previous law that it enters from 1 November, and there is regulation of both the Law on NSO and the other laws to be seen, I propose a text...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-29.u655	Let's write this Any lines to Mr. Lazarov's proposal? We are voting on Mr. Lazarov's proposal: We vote, fellow Members. They voted 103 MPs: for 102, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted, and with that, the National Security Act. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
