ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] On yesterday, after the passing of our rule of law, we were in the second voting regime of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. I'm making a procedural proposal. 8 of our weekly program to become t. 13 last, and all others draw one point forward. Colleagues, we need a little more time to clarify our position on the texts that we debated yesterday. Voting regime on the so-called procedural proposal to move items on the agenda...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u2	It's a counterproposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u3	You're for the same thing, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u4	Back-up procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u5	Back offer, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I am against your proposal because yesterday I was very surprised by the metamorphosis in GERB and, in general, in the reformist majority regarding this topic. At the first vote you supported this bill, and now you have blamed not just the Council of Ministers and Boyko Borisov, you have blamed a text which defines one way or another, recognised or not, part of the European path of the Republic of Bulgaria. You refused to accept the truth from a reading man in the face of Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov, and preferred to believe a deviant truth presented by people who have no idea of this issue in general. I call on you to conclude this issue at last on this day, not to postpone the debate, because I am sure that when the Prime Minister returns from Europe and reports to him that on this basis, there will be sanctions for the Republic of Bulgaria, that anecdote from three or four years ago will happen when there is talk about how when the facts speak, the gods are silent, and when Boyko Borisov speaks, the facts remain silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Just to remind you that in yesterday's sitting, Mr. Chetin Kazak made such a procedural offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u8	For today!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u9	Yeah, but it wasn't voted out because it was 2:00. We are voting on the proposed procedure for changing the points of our weekly programme. Voting mode. They voted 136 MPs: 102, against 29, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We shall continue the sitting with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND ARMED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. A second vote report came in. Mr. Mihov, please report to us the texts on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it would be good if the Minister of Defence was present in this Chamber, but I am also starting the procedure in his absence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u11	I hope you invited him, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u12	He was invited yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u13	He came yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u14	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers under No 502-01-12 of 2 February 2015, submitted for a second vote by the National Assembly The Defence Committee has not received any proposals to amend or supplement the bill before the second vote. So I'm going to get to the point of the procedure. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 121 MPs. For 112, against 3, abstention six. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u16	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u17	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 114 MPs: 98, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u18	In § 2, art. 160, para. 3 the words suppliers of the academic positions of the associate professor or professor are replaced by.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Article 2 (a) and (b) shall be inserted. 290b, which is also supported by the Commission without objections.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u19	I have another report. Looks like we're reading different reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u21	On page 2, in your report, after § 1 it says § 2. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 2 and you should literally report § 2 in black.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u22	Which I reported. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 160, para. 3 the words suppliers of the academic positions of the associate professor or professor are replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u23	Statements? I won't. We vote § 2. They voted 115 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u24	In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 296, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words "Civil employees" is added to the work force in the Bulgarian Army and to the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, to which the Law on the Civil Service Officer does not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u25	Mr. Mihov, in the report submitted by your committee after § 2 follows § 3, which the Commission supports by importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u27	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. We are voting § 3 by importer. They voted 119 MPs: 98, against 3, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u29	We vote § 4. They voted 116 MPs: 96, against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u30	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 296, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words the civil servants and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, to which the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 1 is not applicable, are added. 107a of the Labour Code
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 5 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: 91, against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u33	We vote. They voted 111 MPs: 93, against 5, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u34	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u35	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 121 MPs: 99, against 6, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u36	I will report in order a number of paragraphs of § 7, § 8 of the same division and § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u37	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 95, against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u38	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for §10: ..................................................... Within the framework of the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2015 and 2016 funds shall be provided for the administrative provision of the Presidency of the Inter-Union Confederation of the officers of the reserve (SIR) of the member states of NATO, taken over by the Republic of Bulgaria and carried out by the Union of the officers and sergeants of the reserve and reserve, which shall be provided under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the act of the Minister of Defence under art. 226m, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u39	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. We are voting § 10 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 15. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u40	On behalf of the members of the Defence Committee, I warmly thank you for your active work, for your timely acceptance and good work with the Ministry of Defence. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u41	And thank you, Mr. Mihov. The next item of our weekly programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE SUPERVISION AND THE BEAUTIFULS. Reports have been received from the committees to which the bills have been allocated. We will first hear the report of the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening. [[Deputy President Dimitar Glauchev takes the chair.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014 and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014. At its meeting held on 16 December 2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014 and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Lyubomila Stanislavova, Secretary of State, Mrs. Nina Chimova, State Expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva. It is envisaged to limit the rights of foreigners granted refugee status or humanitarian status and enjoy temporary protection with regard to the possibility of meeting with their families in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Ms. Tasheva justified the submitted proposals, noting that Bulgaria is the poorest country in the European Union and that there is no opportunity to support thousands of illegal immigrants. As an example of resolving the issue, the measures taken in France, Germany, Britain and the Netherlands were pointed out. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev, was presented by the importer. Mr. Kardzhaliev drew attention to the fact that the bill he submitted was the result of the work of a working group with wide expert participation, including representatives of all institutions and NGOs, whose activities are related to the implementation of the Asylum and Refugees Act. The draft aims to transpose the provisions of two Directives: Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the designation of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, for the single status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection, and for the content of protection granted, the period for transposition of which expired on 21 December 2013, and Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 setting standards on the adoption of applicants for international protection, the period for transposition of which expires on 20 July 2015. In conclusion, Mr. Kardzhaliev stressed that the submitted draft clearly improves the Asylum and Refugee Law by improving the framework of the effects of this asymmetric refugee flow towards Bulgaria. The draft, submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, received opinions from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Education and Science, the State Agency for Child Protection, the State Agency for Refugees and the Representation of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in Bulgaria. The opinions presented highlight the contradiction of the proposed amendments with the relevant Directives of the European Union and international acts in force for the Republic of Bulgaria. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior Mrs. Grudeva and Mrs. Chimova expressed their views on both projects. Ms. Grudeva noted that she did not comply with Directive 2001/55/EU on minimum standards for granting temporary protection in the event of a mass flow of displaced persons and that measures to achieve a balance in the efforts of the Member States to adopt such persons and to assume the consequences of this and of Directive 2003/86/EC on the right of family collection, which are part of the common policy of the European Union in the field of asylum and expressed concerns that the adoption of the project could trigger a criminal procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition to the contradiction with the directives, Mrs. Grudeva pointed out a violation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria under numerous international legal acts such as the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. With regard to the second draft law tabled by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Mrs. Chimova expressed support for the bill, which is entirely in line with the adopted legislation of the European Union and confirmed that it is based on a broad consensus of representatives of all institutions involved, providing urgent national measures, synchronising the concepts and scope of international protection, providing a response to the increased migratory pressure on the country through the measures proposed, seeking balance through the so-called compensatory measures. The representative of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers Mr. Daniel Indzhiev expressed his opinion that the adoption of the first bill submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group would lead to a lack of harmonisation with European legislation and could not contribute to achieving the objectives outlined by the importer. In relation to the second draft bill submitted by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Mr. Injiev expressed support, justifying the need for his timely adoption in order to end the criminal procedure initiated due to a delay in transposition of the first directive. In the discussion of the bill participated the MPs Christian Mitev, Dimitar Delchev, Yavor Notev and Daniel Kirilov. After answering the questions raised to him regarding the financial collateralisation of the activities provided for in the bill and concerning the existence of a reference for compliance with the transposed directives, Mr. Kardzhaliev pointed out as a leading motive for his decision as MP to submit such an important bill the need for urgent action in order not to compromise the European image of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 1 vote for the Council, 8 votes against the House and 4 votes abstentioned, proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014; - with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 3 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. With the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, we will be introduced by its President, the People's Representative Krasimir Velchev. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by National Representative Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 07.11.2014. At a regular meeting held on 05.03.2015, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27.10.2014, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by the National Representative Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 07.11.2014. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Chief Legal Consultant at the Directorate of Migration, Mrs. Vyara Stankova, Senior Legal Consultant at the Department of Legal and Legal Service at the Directorate of Border Police and Mr. Todor Dragnev, Expert at the Directorate of Migration, Mr. Nikola Kazakov, Chairman of the Agency, Mr. Daniel Injiev, Director of the Directorate of International Protection and Mrs. Kalina Popaneva, Mrs. Boris Chesherkov, Advisor to the Representation in Bulgaria of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, as well as representatives of other non-governmental organizations. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. The bill proposes to repeal provisions regulating the possibility of foreigners granted refugee status or humanitarian status and enjoying temporary protection to meet their families on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Alexandrov justified the proposed amendments to the Law, with the inability of our country to support the thousands of illegal immigrants, even more so that new immigrant waves are expected. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by the National Representative Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev, was presented by the importer. Mr. Kardzhaliev pointed out that the draft he submitted was the result of the activities of a wide expert group, including leading experts from both state institutions and NGOs, whose activities are related to the implementation of the Asylum and Refugee Act. The bill transposes the provisions of two Directives: Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the designation of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, on the single status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and on the content of the protection granted (the time limit for transposition of that Directive expired on 21 December 2013) and Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards on the acceptance of applicants for international protection (the deadline for transposition of its provisions expires on 20 July 2015.). The importer stressed that the submitted bill perfects the current Law by supplementing and synchronising the concepts and filling existing gaps in it. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Refugees and Representation in Bulgaria of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees presented their views on the two draft laws. Under the bill submitted by the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs, it was shared that the proposals made contradict the requirements for the collection of families regulated in art. 9 "12" of Directive 2003/86/EC and of art. 15 of Directive 2001/55/EC. The fact that the Bill violates the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria and on numerous international acts such as the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been highlighted. In conclusion, the representatives of the institutions said they did not support the Bill. On the bill submitted by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev in the opinions of the institutions is expressed support. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Refugees and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees noted the fact that the bill is in line with the adopted EU legislation and is based on a broad consensus of all institutions involved. It introduces urgent national measures, synchronise and complement the concepts and scope of international protection. The President of the State Agency for Refugees expressed support for the Bill, justifying the need for its adoption to end the criminal procedure initiated due to a delay in transposition of the first directive. He said the Agency he led would make proposals in order to improve the bill between the first and second votes, to the leading committee. During the discussion on the Draft Law submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs were expressed opinions in support of the opinions of the institutions with the argument for its non-compliance with European law and its contradiction with the relevant EU directives and international acts in force for the Republic of Bulgaria. Under the bill submitted by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev, a large part of the members of the Commission expressed support for the reasons of the importer. Opinions were said that the proposed bill is in the direction of the pro-European development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the harmonisation of our internal legislation with the European legislation. After the debates, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights: with 0 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u46	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote a procedure for admission in the room of the Head of Staff of the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Bachvarova.......................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u47	I put to the vote the procedure for admission to the Chamber made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite Zlatko Todorov to the hall. With the report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, we will be acquainted with its President, the People's Representative Atanas Atanasov. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u48	Ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014, and Draft amending and supplementing the Law asylum and refugees No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At a regular meeting held on 11 March 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act submitted by Tuncher Kardzhaliev and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Asylum and Refugees Act submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by representatives from: - Ministry of Interior: Vyara Stankova General Legal Consult in the Legal Service Department and Rositsa Grudeva General Legal Consult in the Directorate of Migration; - The State Agency for Refugees: Aleksandar Dimitrov, Vice-President, Daniel Indzhiev, Director of the Department of International Protection, Kalina Popaneva, Senior Legal Consult, and Petya Karayaneva, Advisor to the Representation in Bulgaria of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev, was presented by the importer. Mr. Kardzhaliev pointed out that the draft he submitted was the result of the activities of a wide working group, including leading experts from both state institutions and NGOs, whose activities are related to the implementation of the Asylum and Refugees Act. In November 2013, the bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and was adopted at the first vote of the 40th National Assembly. The main objective set out in the Draft Law is to transpose the provisions of two Directives: Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the designation of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, on the single status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection, and on the content of the protection granted, the period for transposition of that Directive expired on 21 December 2013, and Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards on the acceptance of applicants for international protection and the period for transposition of its provisions expires on 20 July 2015. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, was presented by the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. The bill proposes to repeal provisions regulating the possibility for foreigners granted refugee status or humanitarian status benefiting from temporary protection to meet with their families on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Alexandrov shared the opinion of the importers that most of the refugees are in fact lawbreakers, and the collection of family members is carried out only with a declaration lodged which is an unstable act and cannot guarantee the authenticity of the data and circumstances exported therein. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Refugees and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees also presented written opinions on the two draft laws. Under the bill submitted by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev, the opinions of the institutions express support. At the meeting representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Refugees and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees noted that the bill is in line with the adopted EU legislation. It introduces urgent national measures, synchronise and complement the concepts and scope of international protection. The President of the State Agency for Refugees expressed support for the Bill, justifying the need for its adoption to end the criminal procedure initiated due to a delay in the transposition of the first Directive. At the same time, it was noted by the State Agency for Refugees that actions related to the detention of foreigners and the disclosure of health offices should be regulated in detail. The representative of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees noted that the institution of guardianship and custody had not been set up. In their speeches, the importer and the MPs confirmed that between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, the gaps should be filled. The bill presented by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev expressed support for the reasons of the importer. Opinions were said that the proposed bill implements the harmonisation of our internal legislation with European legislation. People's representative Atanas Atanasov recommended that the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees be implemented in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts. In the bill submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, the main change is related to the removal of the legal possibility of a foreigner benefiting from temporary protection to be reunited with his husband and their minor and non-married children if they also state their desire to do so. It was shared that the requirements for the collection of families were regulated in art. 9 "12" of Directive 2003/86/EC and are introduced in the Asylum and Refugees Act in particular in art. 34, which is proposed for annulment. The proposals shall also be contrary to art. 15 of Directive 2001/55/EC. This provision of the Directive is in fact the content of art. 39a, with which it is proposed to drop out. 1.. 4............................................................................... The representatives of the institutions stressed in their statements that the Bill violates the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria under numerous international acts, in violation of the Geneva Convention on the Protection of the Family, as well as the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Following the debates the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, with 17 votes in favour, without the votes of the National Assembly, proposed that the Draft Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014. Without votes, the National Assembly proposes not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. The opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will introduce us to its President Svetlin Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! At a meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, submitted by Mr. Volen Siderov, and the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, submitted by Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev. The proposed bills were presented by the MP Mr. Ilian Todorov and the MP Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev respectively. The draft laws aim to introduce amendments to the current Law on Asylum and Refugees, referring to international practice and to EU legislation. Draft Law No 454-01-8, submitted by Mr. Volen Siderov, provides for the deletion of art. 34 and paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of art. 39a, concerning the right to a family gathering, as well as the editing of art. 39, introducing a certain period of residence for foreigners benefiting from temporary protection. The importers of the Bill refer to Directive 2008/115/EC, as well as to some cases of practices in this area of the Netherlands, Italy, Malta and Greece. It should be borne in mind that Directive 2008/115/EC expressly states that a third-country national who has applied for asylum in a Member State of the European Union should not be regarded as being in an illegal stay in the territory of the Member State until a negative decision on the application or a decision suspending his or her right to stay as an asylum candidate enters into force. It should also be noted that the adoption of the proposed amendments would be contrary to the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from Directive 2001/55/EU and Directive 2003/86/EC on the right to family collection, as well as a number of other international legal acts. Law No 454-01-37, submitted by Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev, aims to introduce in the national legislation the requirements of Directive 2011/95/EU, the deadline for which transposition expired on 22 December 2013. The Law introduces the concept of international protection, which includes refugee status and humanitarian status. The grounds for the granting of international protection, the notions of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The grounds for the threat to national security and the threat to society are introduced as exclusion clauses. Draft Law No 454-01-37 also provides for the introduction of the requirements of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down standards on the acceptance of applicants for international protection. The aim is to ensure the rights of persons seeking protection and, at the same time, to provide the host State with the necessary tools to ensure the protection of public policy, security and health of the population. Restrictions on the right to free movement should only apply where they are necessary and proportionate and accompanied by the relevant legal guarantees and persons seeking international protection must be given effective access to justice, including the possibility to appeal the measures imposed. The period of transposition of Directive 2013/33/EU is 20 July 2015. In conclusion, with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, amendments to other laws governing separate aspects of the protection of refugees are proposed in the Law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, the Law on People's Education and the Law on Health. In view of the above and as a result of the vote held, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds with 1 vote in favour, 6 votes filed by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 October 2014, and proposes not to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees by 9 votes by the National Assembly, No 454-01-37 by 9 votes by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014 and the votes held by the National Assembly to adopt a first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. For opinions from importers? Here you are, Mr. Todorov, under the Bill submitted by the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Here it is not clear exactly what we offer from Ataka, and I will therefore allow you to know the reasons for the so proposed amendments to the Asylum and Refugees Act. Because of the impropriety of art. Article 34 39a with the present reality these articles create prerequisites for social tensions. Bulgaria is the poorest country in the European Union and the existence of such a text in the Law on Asylum and Refugees creates an excessive burden on the social system. Also the fact that these are numerous families of mainly Arabic and African origin and practical inability to obtain correct, sufficient and adequate information about family members creates a threat to national security and demographic balance in the country. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1, t. 1 the new text, which is written, expresses the meaning of the Law under art. 11, para. 2 and in accordance with Council Decision of the European Union. Practically 100% of the invaders in our country pass through the green border, that is, they do not register at only the legal points of penetration, or it is the border crossing points. With this they commit a crime within the meaning of art. 279, para. 1 and 2 of the Penal Code, which is punishable by a prison of one to five years and a fine of 300 BGN. Moreover, they come in with amounts of tens of thousands of dollars, meaning currency smuggling, which is also a crime within the meaning of the Penal Code under art. 251, which is punishable by imprisonment for up to six years or a fine in the amount of the double amount of the subject matter of the offence, which shall be taken in favour of the State. As of January 2014, the aliens were already 13,000. people, according to data from the State Agency for Refugees and none of them were effectively convicted under the above two members of the Penal Code. Directive 2008/115/EC was adopted within the European Union in December 2008 on the deportation of illegal immigrants, including families. Such immigrants are given a period of 7 to 30 days to leave the country voluntarily. If they refuse, they may be kept under guard for up to 18 months in dorms and then deported to the country of origin or third host country. At the end of 2013, the Netherlands applied the European directive "Immigrants without documents being fined 3800 euros. They were detained in closed-type centres for up to 18 months, then forced out. Italy and Malta regularly resort to this possibility. Greece began to return immediately the captured immigrants trying to infiltrate the country. Therefore, referring to the European experience, we, at Ataka, are making changes to the current legislation in this particular area. Please, let us not go by the number here, that the proposal from "Attack" was against the European directives, because, as we see, countries from the European Union, such as the Netherlands, Italy, Malta, Greece, are doing exactly what we from "Attack" are proposing. Then this is not about people who have received refugee status, but about people who have entered illegally across the border of the Republic of Bulgaria and are temporarily staying. Right now, the law says they can stay in our country as long as they want. We propose exactly what is being done in the countries of the European Union, which I mentioned just now, that these people be expelled after the end of the military action, for example, in the Syrian Arab Republic or after the disaster, wherever. This is practice in European countries. I ask you very much not to look at the European directives when we talk about European directives, once they are exported to us, to observe them, a second time to say that, no, they are not. That is because we have read, we have told you the countries in which this is done. Don't fool people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Todorov. The importer of the other bill is the national representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill in a different form, as the four chairmen of committees said, was submitted as early as November 2013. The Council of Ministers was the importer. It aimed to transpose two European Union directives into the Bulgarian legislation "Directive 2011/EU," with a deadline for transposition 22 December 2013, and Directive 2013/33/EU, with a period of 20 July 2015, i.e. after several months. Immediately, unfortunately, he caused serious objections then, even disagreement, violent protests by various organizations and institutions. Here I refer to the Agency for Child Protection, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, UNESCO, the High Commissioner for Refugees of the United Nations and especially the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee. They were related to a variety of texts on the detention regime, the police functions that were replaced in the then text of the State Agency for Refugees, the grounds for detention, detention of minors and also the procedure for access to the labour market. Although it is a harmonious text, due to the imperative deadlines that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria was chasing, this Bill within the framework of the Forty-second National Assembly was adopted unanimously and in the Committee on Human Rights and Complaints of the Citizens, which was the leader, and in plenary, but on one condition. The condition was that the deadline for adjustment was extended to the first time, the deadline for submission of first reading, and secondly, the period between first and second reading, and to set up an expert committee with leading specialists in this area, the specialists in refugee law, who could specify all the controversial texts on which there were so many objections. Such a Commission was established and participated in it, and at 4-5 meetings a total of nearly 20 specialists. In my opinion, from my communications with them, I can say that these are undoubtedly the best specialists in refugee law from maybe over 15 institutions. The institutions are: the Ministry of Interior Two representatives, the State Agency for Refugees, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Cassation Prosecution, the Administration of the President, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, several ministries, also the Social Assistance Agency, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, and also the Supreme Commissioner for Refugees of the United Nations and the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee together with UNICEF and several other organizations. This Commission, together with the leadership of the Committee on Human Rights, has created this bill, which I now propose. This text was adopted with full unanimity within the framework of the Forty-second National Assembly at first reading in the Commission and in the plenary, and then even at second reading it was adopted by the committee responsible. Unfortunately, at second reading it was not accepted and for this reason the Republic of Bulgaria is in a procedure with regard to non-acceptance. It was not accepted because of the chaos in the last days of the Forty-second National Assembly and the non-representation of this text by the then President of the National Assembly. In April 2014, there was an official request from the European Commission why the Law was not adopted. Then the Ministry of Interior replied that this admission was in procedure. On 27 November 2014, Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos identified the need for common refugee community law. He said that all Member States must work for the proper functioning of the system and that the full and effective transposition of the common European asylum system is an absolute priority. I took the liberty of inserting this text for several reasons. Firstly, in order not to remain in vain and unappreciated the work of all the refugee law specialists I was talking about, and secondly, as an attempt to facilitate the Ministry of Interior, respectively the Council of Ministers, offering consensus, that is, to save time to the institutions concerned, and also to prevent the Republic of Bulgaria from being in criminal proceedings with regard to these provisions. I submit it as the former President of the said Commission as the Law amending and supplementing the Refugee Act. Until this stage of its submission in November 2014, there are no serious, even no objections from any country. Whoever has met him knows that the text is free of party bias, and before I introduce it, I agreed this act with the then Minister of Interior Yordan Bakalov, the next Minister of Interior Mr. Vuchkov, and also with Mr. Nikolay Chirpanliev, then Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees, even with Mrs. Petya Karayaneva as a representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees to the UN. Everyone supports this bill. In view of the four committees which, by a convincing majority, supported it, I also ask the Members of the National Assembly to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the transposition of this law in particular is proof that everything has its time. There's a secret in every job. When something is done and when the deadline is late or expired, it has absolutely no value. Because because of the time limits for transposition specifically of the European directives on this issue, I am subject to sanctions, possibly if we do not transpose them. The proposed draft introduces the requirements of Directive 33 of 2013 of the European Union, which is considered to be one of the most important acts of the European Union, setting conditions for the adoption and guarantee of a decent standard and life of refugees, which, on the one hand, aligns Bulgarian legislation with European legislation, but on the other, while we are late in dealing with the standard and comfort of refugees, in Europe are already seeking alternative measures to strengthen border control and patrol against the backdrop of unprecedented refugee flow across the Balkans and the Mediterranean. In the poorest country in Europe, the migration pressure can be devastating for the country and citizens, because the Bulgarian problem and the refugee problem as a whole does not just decrease, but grows and will continue to increase. For information compared to 2013, in the past 2014, the refugee flow across the European Union increased 138%. And while you and I are fulfilling our late commitments to the European Union, providing international protection, the Haskovo people, Harmanli, where one of the main refugee centres is located, are worried about terrorists and insist on security and protection. The danger of expanding Islamic civilization and establishing control over countries in Europe is threateningly real. By instilling in society the word refugee is not that illegal immigrants come from 80 million Muslim Turkey, where Syrians can stay and really integrate, but that we do not provide them with good conditions. However, there is silence over the billion-dollar maintenance of the new settlers and the danger of bankruptcy of the state, the risk of the future activity of radical terrorist organizations such as Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State is silent in Bulgaria. No one dares say how most investors pull out except the Muslims. Currently, according to BNB data, investments compared to 2014. In January, there were three times down from 50 million in January 2014, 16 million in January 2015. Except for these, why don't we announce a quota for the Syrians, like they did in France. Why does no one talk in Bulgaria about imposing quotas? This is obviously not a coincidence, but it is disastrous for us families and our country. Let us therefore really not only transpose the European directives lately, but bear in mind the new trends in Europe that are really paying attention and not blindly transposing European measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Colleagues, do you have any lines to the speech of the MP Slavi Binev? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am going to tell you something that many of you know about, but why they are not making it public. Only with warming of the time when the summer months are taking place? Currently 250 thousand illegal immigrants from Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan is waiting at the border with Burgas to invade our country. Two hundred and fifty thousand people! We also know of the plans for their permanent accommodation in the so-called "triangle of death" - Sredets, Elhovo and Zvezdetz. We know what Europe has to say about where these people should be accommodated. If you allow this to happen by not accepting our proposal, you will really bring the state to bankruptcy, indeed then there will be an absolutely complete lack of control of terrorist units and of the Islamic State and of Boko Haram, and then you will wonder what to do and what to explain to your constituents. But that's the least of our problems. The problem is that you will put the state in an extremely difficult situation. Then you'll just really be responsible for your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. - What's the line? I won't. There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-8, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. They voted 109 MPs: 9 against 62, abstention 38. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014. The opinions of the four committees which have examined the Law are in his favour. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 105 against 5, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTS FOR CHANGE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, With the report at the first vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be briefed by the President of the Commission Mr. Danail Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015 and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015. At its meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of Members of Parliament on 13 February 2015 and a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chief Prosecutor, Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor at the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, Mrs. Pavlina Panova, Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and Chairman of the Criminal College, Mrs. Sonia Naydenova, representing the Supreme Judicial Council, Mrs. Magdalena Lazarova, Member of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mrs. Kristina Lazarova, Expert at the Directorate of Legal Normal Activities in the Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Petya Petkova, Director of the Directorate of the Bulgarian Identity Documents. On behalf of the importers Mr. Danail Kirilov presented briefly the two bills for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure and given the way they were prepared, gave the floor for their detailed presentation to the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mrs. Pavlina Panova and the Prosecutor General Sotir Tsatsarov. The Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mrs. Pavlina Panova emphasized on the purpose of the proposed draft law on the change of conviction in part of the cases of the reopening of criminal cases, namely the possibility of the Supreme Court of Cassation to execute its constitutional mandate to carry out supreme judicial supervision for the exact and uniform application of the laws of all courts. In the light of this objective, it is envisaged that, instead of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Courts of Appeal should examine the requests for the reopening of criminal cases under art. 422, para. 1, t. 5 when the acts referred to in art. 419 were given by a district court or by a district court as an appeal, except for new convictions. Appeals courts shall have the possibility to postpone and deal with cases in a shorter time than the Supreme Court of Cassation, which shall allow for the timely implementation of the acts entered into force. This will ensure greater speed of proceedings, and instead of one court the Supreme Court of Cassation, the cases will be dealt with by all appeals courts and justice will be carried out closer to the citizens. This will not affect the quality of justice, as the appeals courts have the necessary experience to reopen criminal cases under Chapter Twenty-eighth of the PPC. The Chief Prosecutor Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov presented the main groups of amendments envisaged in the project: to clarify some of the provisions in force, to increase the effectiveness of the measures for non-violence and other measures of procedural coercion, to ensure the quality of the proceedings through appropriate changes in the competence of the authorities of pre-trial proceedings and in defendants, to ensure greater efficiency, autonomy, operationality and guarantees for the protection of investigative secrecy in the work of the bodies of pre-trial proceedings. In this regard, the Prosecutor General focuses on the need to provide for more reliable guarantees for the implementation of measures of non-violence and other measures of procedural coercion in order to ensure the smooth conduct of criminal proceedings, its timely closure and, in particular, the execution of the judgment in force. In view of this, it is offered the possibility of electronic monitoring and the withdrawal of identity documents through which documents can be left the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria by issuing replacement documents. The Prosecutor General has justified the proposal that requests for the use of special means of intelligence in respect of judges, prosecutors and investigators be submitted by the Prosecutor General or expressly authorised by the Prosecutor General and permissions for their application be granted by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or expressly authorised by the Supreme Court of Cassation. In view of this proposal, as well as the possibility of applying special intelligence means to witnesses in criminal matters who have agreed to this, the relevant amendments to the Special Intelligence Means Act shall also be envisaged. Mr. Danail Kirilov presented the comparative study of the laws of ten countries of the European Union on measures of non-violence and other measures of procedural coercion by the Ministry of Interior. Ms. Sonia Naydenova, representing the Supreme Judicial Council, supported, in principle, the second draft law amending and supplementing the PPC, providing for a change in jurisdiction when criminal cases were resumed, the idea of which was supported by the Supreme Judicial Council in the discussion of the Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2013. With regard to the first draft, in view of the short period of introduction, said that the Supreme Judicial Council could, within an appropriate period, present an opinion. Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, expressed support for the bill submitted at the initiative of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which he received at the time of his submission to the 42nd National Assembly. With regard to the bill submitted at the initiative of the Prosecutor's Office, he expressed his opinion that it is appropriate to use the capacity of the Office of the Republic of Bulgaria to present to the European Court of Human Rights an assessment of the compliance of some of the proposed provisions with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, expressed principle support for the first bill, noting that at present there is no order for issuing replacement documents, which is why relevant amendments to the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act are needed, in view of which the Ministry of Interior will provide its expertise. Ms. Pavlina Panova voiced support for the bill submitted at the initiative of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and made some remarks that could improve some of the proposals submitted. People's representatives Filip Popov, Daniel Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov, Cyril Kalfin, Dimitar Lazarov, Peter Slavov, Hamid Hamid, Yavor Notev and Cetin Kazak took part in the discussion of the bills. By uniting themselves around the need to improve the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, they focused on the possibility that the bills could be used as a good basis, and between the first and second votes the proposals made regarding: the powers of the court under art. 309 of the PPC, the possibility of using special intelligence means in relation to a witness who has consented to this, the mandatory presence of the defendant in the court of appeal, etc. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 15 votes for the Council, without the opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015. - with 15 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, propose to the National Assembly to adopt the bill for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-35, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 17.02.2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. To conclude the reports of the committee in today's meeting, I will ask the National Representative Atanas Atanasov to brief us on the Commission's report with the long name for control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications under the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015. The Commission for Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and the Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act at its regular meeting held on 12 March 2015 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015. The meeting was attended by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, who presented the proposed amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure to the Commission. Supplements are made in three main directions to enhance the effectiveness of measures for non-violation, follow-up and prosecution of criminal cases and to increase guarantees for the protection of investigative secrecy in the work of pre-trial proceedings. The application of special intelligence means to judges, prosecutors and investigators, who will have the highest levels in the judiciary, shall be discussed. In this way, prevention against leaks and protection of investigative secrecy is sought. The Commission approved the proposed Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure after the debate of 18 votes was closed. On the basis of the above, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-34, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 13 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Before announcing a holiday, let me tell you that our guests are residents of Plovdiv on the balcony, together with the mayor of the town Ivan Totev and the governor Rosaline Petkov. [[Applause.]] It's 10:31. I'm announcing a recess until 11:00 when we will proceed with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u64	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 13-19 March 2015 are not available. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Atanas Tashkov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Tashkov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Atanas Tashkov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on three issues by the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - from the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Stefan Dedev; - from the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the National Representative Ralitsa Todorova; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a request from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov; - by the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Willy Lilkov. First in today's parliamentary control will answer Mr. Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, to two questions, the first of which is the Parliamentary Representative Slavi Binev on the absorption of funds from the European Union in violation of European legislation. Mr. Binev, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madame Minister, colleagues! My question to you, Mr. Donchev, is about possible violations in the use of grants from the European Union in connection with the construction of a new landfill. As you know, this topic is extremely important for Bulgaria and the European Commission is following us very closely on these issues. The construction of the depot in Banya village, Razlog is able to cause serious problems of the Bulgarian state with the European authorities. I have asked this question in the European Parliament and also in the Greek Parliament, as this concerns Greece. The doubts are about the creation of a corruption scheme, abuse of power and influence for the embezzlement of huge funds under the Project "Establishment of the Regional Waste Management System in Razlog Region," under the Grants Contract, there is no point in quoting it. The project does not comply with the requirements of Ordinance No 7, for the distances from the village of Banya, namely at least 3 km away from the locality. The square, designated as a regional depot, in the land of Banya village is about 1 km from the last houses of the village on the road, and by an airline about 500 m. Nearby 400 m from the dump there are two workshops with over 30 workers. Under Directive 1999/31 of the European Community, then of 26 April 1999 on the disposal of waste...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u66	Ask the question the two minutes as time has passed. The Minister knows the arguments and we expect in the answer to take into account the detailed developments of you question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u67	The real problems are serious, I'll just finish with the end of the exhibition on problems with this depot. Dear Mr. Donchev, I think you should not allow such spending of European funds. What are you going to do about it? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u68	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, as far as I understand from the question you have asked, the concerns or doubts about illegal actions are not so much related to the spending and financing of the Operational Program as of all procedures and permits related to the deployment of the waste treatment facility itself. Therefore, in view of your signal, I requested a reference from the Ministry of Environment and Water, which includes the following data. The project for the construction of the Regional Waste Management System for Razlog Region is financed by the Operational Programme "Environment 2007-2013", following a detailed expert assessment and on the basis of a contract signed on 11 July 2012 for grant assistance between the Ministry, on the one hand, and the leading municipality of Razlog in partnership with the municipalities of Bansko, Belitsa and Yakoruda. Within the framework of the evaluation of the project proposal, there are no violations regarding the required procedure under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act, as well as under the Biodiversity Act, a mandatory assessment of the environmental impact of the investment proposal in the relevant regional depot. The evaluation report on EIA is agreed by: RIOCOS sc, Blagoevgrad, Ministry of Health, Regional History Museum, Regional Road Management, Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Forests, Swimming Directorate, Water and Water. According to the data available to me, the public discussion took place on 14 September 2009. An EIA decision of 8 December 2009 has been issued to the Director of RIEW.. Blagoevgrad, which approves the implementation of the relevant investment proposal. A procedure for assessing the need to carry out an EIA for the relevant investment proposal has been carried out in the Ministry of Environment and Water for the assessment of the need to carry out an EIA of the Minister of Environment and Water for the purpose of not carrying out an EIA. The two decisions were appealed, with a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of last instance rejecting the appeals of the applicants. As far as I am informed, in the years back, including at your initiative, the relevant decisions of the Ministry and of other responsible institutions have been subject to comment, including from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, committed to the relevant case. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At the time of the document level, the checks show what I just said. To conclude, I would like to point out that in waste management we follow several basic principles. The first, of course, is to create conditions for safe treatment and disposal of waste.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u70	The time for response is up, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. In the back, you can finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u71	In addition, in the treatment process, do not create a risk to the health and life of people who are close to the relevant waste treatment facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u72	Thank you. Mr. Binev, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we are here absolutely all the people who need to deal with an extremely big problem called the Bureaucracy. Maybe, bureaucratically speaking, everything's fine. But here we have to solve it, and here we are the people, and you are the ones who have to do the will of the people. Do you think it's normal to develop as a tourist center where there are more than 70 springs of mineral water, is it normal to make a dump there exactly?! Here are the people who have to decide whether this is right or wrong! This is not normal whether it meets all the criteria that must have been met. Here are the people who have to hit the brake and hit a stop when we say that this is unacceptable! We shouldn't abandon the only thing that brings funds to Bulgaria. There's mineral water there. I am sure that in Switzerland or Austria they will hang a man who has allowed this to happen in such a place! We have to be crazy to let that happen! I believe that, as reasonable people, we need to correct this injustice or the implementation of norms that are strictly bureaucratic. I ask the honourable Deputy Prime Minister and the people responsible for these matters to correct this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Binev. A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u75	Dear Mr. Binev, as an explanation to the concerns expressed by you, I would like to point out a few things. The first is that with the funds from the Operational Program no dumps are built anywhere. With funds from the Operational Programme "Environment" dumps are not built, but a number of regional waste management and landfill systems are built, which are very, very different from those known decades ago. Secondly, if such a facility is designed and implemented properly, it should not pose any risk either to the lives and health of people or to create risks to tourism. I would also like to point out that I do not recall from all the regional waste management systems that have been built in recent years, the construction of some separate territory has caused all the people who live and have business around to be satisfied. We can't expect it to be like this. Unfortunately, for one reason or another, regional waste management systems must be located somewhere on Bulgarian territory. Finally, as far as it is our responsibility, as politicians, not just to mediate between citizens and institutions, let us not forget that institutions work not for us, but for citizens, I propose the following. To provide you with a copy of all the documents I have requested from the competent institutions. Read them, look at them. If there's any difference between what's in the documents and what you've seen, including on site visits, I'm personally committed to checking what's due to such a gap. I'm saying this for a reason. For one reason or another, I have not been on the spot, I have not had the opportunity to personally measure the distance between the facility in question to the nearest houses. You mention some data here, the reports say something else. I'll provide you with a copy of the documents. Please, if you find a discrepancy, or if there's something wrong in it, let me know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Lutvi Mestan has the floor. [[Replying from the hall.]] Please, no yelling from the hall. [[Extreme lines from the hall.]] We're listening, Mr. Mestan, I've announced, I've given you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u77	Thank you, and I hope it won't be taken from me, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u78	And it's up to you, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u79	Dear Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, and for elections, and for something much more serious in relation to these elections. [[Field lines]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the first round of the elections for municipal council and mayor of the newest, 265th municipality of Sarnitsa, held on 15 March this year, all of us in this hall, without exception, received a very serious lesson on a great political culture from the inhabitants of a small Rhodope municipality. According to our data, turnout is not 74%, it is close to 100%, i.e. on election day, the right to vote exercised almost all the residents of Sarnitsa, Pobbit Stone and Copper Plains. The voters exercised their vote peacefully, with the awareness that they will live together again as neighbors and after the elections passed. The results are clear. They're not surprising to us. The DPS candidate is first with a huge advantage over the candidates of two of the ruling parties, ranked second and third respectively. It is clear that the candidates of the ruling parties are losing the battle in the field of politics and therefore, unfortunately, they have lost their nerve. Our call from Tuesday between the first and second rounds was to present our ideas calmly, without aggression, because the deer have proven to have a high political culture and will decide by their own free will who to represent them as mayor of the municipality. We're really sorry we weren't heard. Since your political arguments proved insufficient, you have resorted to non-political means of political pressure, which has since yesterday also acquired elements of repression. Ladies and gentlemen, here I would like to address in advance those who will necessarily, inevitably, take the floor after me,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u80	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u81	...probably high enough to brag that they violated the status quo of the DPS in Sarnitsa municipality and therefore the reaction of the Chairman of the DPS. I'm in a hurry to calm them down and say if someone's status quo is broken, it's that political power that currently has the mayors in all three settlements. To recall, in 2011 the elections in Sarnitsa were won by GERB The central power belongs to GERB and the reformers, in union with the Patriotic Front. The forest officials are yours, all the power is yours! With what does the Movement for Rights and Freedom hold these voters, if I should quote your favorite expression? This argument against the background of the facts I have outlined is simply ridiculous. This is a substitute political speech that should hide your political frustration and therefore you resorted to the brutal pressure expressed in threats by the local mayors of the government that temporarily employed under art. 9 of the Social Assistance Rules will be fired if they do not vote for the right candidate! Secondly, the transformation of the forest employees from the Bulgarian state's employees into party non-propagandists, but bullies who scare both voters and local business, which is directly dependent on the Rhodope Mountains. Third, especially brutal, anti-humanism is the attitude of the Director of the State Department "Velingrad," Eng. Velizar Cholakov, who, with his own notification, warns the residents of the neighborhood, where there are 5 houses, notice, by letter dated 18 March: to the 19th, that is, they are given 24 hours to search for another electricity supplier, otherwise on 20 March, today, the power supply will be cut off! Do you know why? Because these people were found guilty of supporting the DSS candidate. We don't know who they voted for. And when we use the expression, it is necessary for you to know that it is a painful communion and does not mean that we know for whom, but we name you as sources of information that they have voted for the DPS and will therefore cut off their power, even though this is the source that has been receiving electricity for decades! Why exactly between the first and second rounds? Why? Because you have to push the voter, to be intimidated! There's a question: what does this have to do with us? I took the liberty of downloading a picture from GERB's website from your website, from the 18th. The Cholakov in question is behind Mr. Tsvetanov's back, behind his left shoulder! [[Shows picture.]] This man is the author of the dark letter! Fact! [[Shows a letter.]] In your statement yesterday, you claim that the DPS was lying because there was no offer to look for another supplier and the power would not be cut at all. But here's your letter. [[shows him]] It says here, "Find another supplier." And second, he's going to break down, here's the verb, he's going to break down! Why are you lying in your statement yesterday? Perhaps you didn't think these facts would be disclosed?! They'll be announced. You can't have employees standing behind your back going to the voters and blatantly telling them, "DSS will give you electricity." If we have brought it to a parliamentary party to provide electricity, if necessary, we will also give it. But the DPS is giving something much more important. The DPS gives courage, self-esteem and freedom of the deer to vote solely on their conscience and with their reason! This is the big problem and this is the stakes of this election! [[Applause from DPS.]] No attempts, even bringing kids in here, there are many children, students. [[shows picture]] who were supposed to be at school yesterday, not here! Invite them on Saturday, invite them on vacation. You've come so far as to use children for the purposes of your election propaganda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u82	Every day there are children!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u83	Except these guys were absent from school, and we got a signal, a complaint from teachers that their kids were cut off from the school process. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] One of the affected persons, I'm ending up, one of the ones where the current would have been cut off if it hadn't been for the reaction of the DPS has cancer. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'd like to finish by calling to preserve the Existent minimum human treatment. A policy devoid of humanism is losing its own meaning. The answer of the Deer will be as we, the Rhodopeans, who are responsible for violence with responsibility, reason and feeling.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u84	I gave you a time sign, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u85	No one in democratic Bulgaria can be subjected to repression. And if this is how you intend to do the elections in the autumn, we will insist not on partial but on full monitoring of the election process by the OSCE and PACE. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u86	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Ms. Tsveta Karayancheva. [[Reply from MP Slavcho Atanasov.]] You want a procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u87	Madam President, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, fellow MPs! I take the floor to express my outrage by my colleagues from the parliamentary group, from which they just spoke. [[Reply from DPS: "The procedure is what?".]] The procedure is the way it's run. After all, we have parliamentary control today, extremely important questions to ask to the ministers. And here to do political campaigning during exactly elections is unacceptable! This is unacceptable! If you were willing to do this, you should have taken a press conference today at the National Assembly, made it or earlier, at 9:00 a.m. you should have made this declaration. You are absolutely inadequate at the moment and are abusing your parliamentary right. That's what I'm convinced of. So don't suggest three days before the election who should be voted for in Sarnitsa. At the moment, you have done exactly what is absolutely not honoring you. Moreover, the idea of this exercise was, as the Russians say, in Gazetu Popal. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u88	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Ms. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u89	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! I've been listening, I can't say that I'm outraged, I'm shocked, because here my colleague has retold what the DPS is doing in mixed regions! He told how people are brutally crushed, how foresters do not give wood to those who vote for GERB, how social benefits give them DPS, how pensions give them DPS. This is the policy spoken in mixed regions. And when there is no DPS, there will be no pensions, there will be no social policy, there will be nothing. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Even the products that are given by BHC are still given by DPS. Those who don't vote for the DPS don't clear their way. Since 2009, since I've been here in this Parliament, I've been telling. Since I've been here, I've managed to walk the regions to know exactly what's going on and how people get rid of this rot because they know there's another alternative, but I'm not here right now to talk about it. Just a few days ago, when the disaster was in Kardzhali, a generator was taken to one of the villages in Ardinsko and the mayor and the Depesar neighborhood were tied up. Four days those who voted for GERB had no electricity. There's a lot of stuff I have to tell you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I can tell you a lot. Only to tell you something else here today is spoken by your party's own experience. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Just two days ago, the mayors of the affected municipalities, Kardzhali District and Smolyan District were with the Prime Minister, who was raised by the term carrier GERB, and these people are from your party. They are from the DPS, but nevertheless the Prime Minister invited all municipalities to see what the problem is, how much they have suffered and what can be done to help these municipalities, regardless of whether they are from GERB, BSP, DPS. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] That's how it works! A few days ago, the military ministry helicopters flew over the Kardzhali region and helped people in regions, and now I will tell you where: Golobrad, Gorno Dustovo and other settlements in Kardzhaliysko. There are more DPS voters living there, but so what?! It's a human life! This politics of this tribune is setting people up. This politics to make cheap political dividends, to turn someone against someone. People, however, are wise, as my colleague before me said. Yeah, people are wise and they're staring at us here. After all, who uses the temporarily employed people in settlements, the temporary employment that the state gives them? In mixed regions again it is said that DPS gives this thing. This privilege is yours. And now that there's a community where a decent choice can be made, we don't throw policies at each other, but we throw such empty words at each other from the parliamentary tribune. Yes, it is possible, there are also sick people and it is not permissible to cut the power, but why and how this happened and whether it really is a political act. Let's be politicians. Let's be people of reason, because people look at us and we shouldn't be ridiculous, so that one way or another we can stand up and say how good we are. No, colleagues, we have a lot to work on ourselves. The attitude towards Bulgarian citizens should guide us, not win at all costs. Not to hand out bags and watches, but to talk about politics. I hope so, because I am from such a Rhodope municipality, really Rhodopeans are very natural, very clean people, very reasonable and thanks to this sensibility in mixed regions, ethnic peace is preserved, not because we here are pulling out our dirty shirts and we want to make dividends, as some colleagues do. No, Bulgarian citizens are extremely reasonable and we need to take an example from them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u90	Colleagues, can we get to the questions now? Yeah. Next is a question by MP Martin Dimitrov to Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev about the reasons why the price of diesel in Bulgaria is among the highest in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u91	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I sent you, Minister, a reference which is officially for the European Union and which shows that the price of diesel, without taxes, without excise duty and without VAT in Bulgaria for the last month is between the third and fourth most expensive in the whole of the European Union. Notice, fellow Members, the third or fourth highest price of diesel is in Bulgaria, without taxes, throughout the European Union. Or, in particular, I took data from yesterday that show that the price of diesel, without taxes, is higher only in Denmark, Greece and Malta, and follows Bulgaria. In countries like Austria and Belgium, the price of diesel, without taxes, is between 30 and 33 pennies per liter lower than in Bulgaria. Between 30 and 33 pennies is lower than in Bulgaria! On average for the European Union the price of diesel, without taxes, in Bulgaria is between 13 and 20 cents higher than the average level for the whole European Union. Between 13 and 20 pennies higher! This shows that there is something rotten in the fuel market, that competition does not work. Where competition works, no such market anomalies are observed, because you cannot have the lowest solvency demand in Bulgaria and this implies one of the highest diesel prices. And the price of diesel, honourable Members, means the price of transport. Transport in Bulgaria, and in most countries, is basically diesel. The expensive diesel means loading the prices of most goods with extra costs when it is so expensive. Therefore, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I appeal to you to propose concrete actions that we need to take, as this situation is disturbing. It shows that there are rotten things that need to be resolved immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u92	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, it hardly makes sense for you to explain exactly what fuel prices are of great importance, especially the price of diesel, not only from a social point of view, not only from a point of view, but also from the perspective of the chances of growth of the economy. It is a proven fact that there are mathematical dependencies that low fuel prices give great, I would even say, huge chances of a more accelerated economic growth. I am going with the belief that the purpose of this parliamentary debate is not only for you to ask me questions and for me to try to find the well-sounding answers, but to make a good analysis and, if possible, to go to a solution. For this, I will answer your question as follows. Not only as a result of your question in recent weeks, I have taken the following actions. I asked the Ministry of Finance for an opinion which provided detailed reference on excise duty and value added tax. I would like to point out that what is obtained from all references is fully consistent with what you just said. A distinction must be made between the price of the final market and the price before tax. The analysis shows that Bulgaria clearly has a problem with the price before tax, as far as value added tax and excise duties are far from the highest in Europe, rather the opposite. From the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Energy, I received uniform opinions aimed at presenting the market for fuels as open and independent from the two relevant departments. However, I did not stop there, as long as my purpose and powers do not suggest that I only correspond with the other institutions. I held a meeting with the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, which I raised, including this question, from which I received the following answer, with the representatives of Lukoil especially put the following statements in defence or as an explanation of the higher price. It has a lower technological level of equipment than Western European refineries, for example, given that modern refineries in Western Europe of one ton of oil can derive 90 and even more percent of high-quality products. In Bulgaria, this percentage is much lower than 67%. It was pointed out that the company operates with increased operating costs due to the operation of the plant in incomplete capacity. All this may be true, but it is not the problem of the Bulgarian consumer. And one more thing. Lukoil is holding around 60% of the market price. All this shouldn't matter, because where there is a working competition, if someone sells more expensive, there is always someone who sells cheaper. In this explanation, the joyous fact is that after modernization of the refinery for about 1.5 billion new capacities are expected to be put into operation in May. The level of processing is expected to increase by approaching European levels. I couldn't answer completely for all the actions I took. I believe I'll have the opportunity to develop them during the backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u94	The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u95	Dear Mr. Donchev, I am pleased that you are committed to this topic and therefore I asked you the question because it was clear to me that you are working on this serious problem, which concerns not only social spending for households, which is also important, but also the growth of the economy. He's not the crazy one who eats the cabbage. We are crazy who do not take measures to protect the competition in Bulgaria. In many European countries, this picture is not produced for one main reason, there is a working KPC that sanctions when market distortions occur. It is important to us, and without any doubt, and you know it that the KPC has been referred to on these issues, but it seems that it has never been sufficiently committed to their resolution. If we expect companies to decide to lower their own prices, that will not happen. You know very well, Mr. Donchev, and it is not by chance that this issue is addressed to you, because I believe that you have already committed yourself and will commit yourself even more to its resolution. We need a new KPC to work extremely actively on such issues and not to allow us to pay such a high price. One of the main objectives of this governance is high growth this year. However, you correctly said the high fuel prices, and especially the expensive diesel, which is a huge part of transport, does harm to directly achieve economic growth. And without growth we cannot solve any of the important problems of Bulgaria. So imagine, the KPC didn't even find this picture, they didn't even write you a letter, they didn't even turn to society, they said what was going on and they didn't take any action. It's okay! It's like we don't have a Commission for Protection of Competition. There's no such thing! On this subject, we unfortunately have no protection of competition. Therefore, the action that we can take right away is, of course, that you have properly met with the companies, that you have properly put the questions..... we need a Commission for Protection of Competition that is active and solves these issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u96	A hole, Mr. Donchev, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u97	Madam President, I will try to be even shorter and save parliamentary time. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I agree with everything you have said. Let me just continue with the actions I have taken. You've commented on the KPC several times. There is a decision of the Commission in question of 26 June 2012, which reads: You know that. Of course, I accept the topic of debate what the regulatory authorities in Bulgaria look like, a debate that we will not have today. But at the moment, we have an effective Commission for Protection of Competition. What did I do? A few days ago, with my letter, I requested the competent opinion of the KPC as the only authority that could rule on the question asked. I specifically expect an opinion whether the rules of free competition in the formation of the price of fuels on the Bulgarian market are respected and does the Commission have evidence of violations and abuse? The deadline for reply shall be 31 March 2015. I would like to assure you that once I have received the competent opinion of the Commission, I will take care to introduce you to him, which I personally do not consider the case or the debate closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u98	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for your participation in the current parliamentary control today. We move on to the questions and answers of Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question will be asked by the people's representative Mrs. Cornelia Ninova on personnel policies in the water and water sector. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u99	Madam Minister, I am a member of the Sofia region. There's been a lot of tension in my area lately. In many municipalities, signatures are made that include people, regardless of their differences in political views and biases. The concern is for the mass dismissals and appointments in the water sector in Sofia region. The facts are as follows. For two months you fired the manager of the Sofia Water and Water District Tsanko Marinov, the head of Etropole district, the head of Gorna Malina district, the head of Kostinbrod district, the head of Dragoman district, the head of the region Ihtiman, the head of Zlatitsa district and the head of Dolna Banya district. You didn't stop here, you went down to the lower levels in the sector. You replaced organizer Elin Pelin, organizer Incaso Kostenets and so on, not to go on. You are now going to the treatment stations of the managers, such as the manager of the treatment plant in Samokov and others. My question is: why? What reasons do these shifts impose? Because fired colleagues are professionals, with higher education, they meet the requirements, they have the necessary censure. What made you do these mass shifts? In my opinion, you are putting at risk one of the largest districts in the country, with 22 municipalities, with complex relief, a fragmented network, in conditions where the water sector in the country has problems. You're risking extremely much, letting go of excuses for what I'm about to say a beastly political broom because there are no other motives. You risk beheading the sector in this area and the consequences being severe for the population of my area. So what made you take these measures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nino, as you rightly pointed out, the head of the water company was replaced on January 15th. According to the requirements of the law, the powers conferred on the head of that water company have a management contract. Under this management contract, he is fully responsible for personnel policy, management of the company, including its authority to optimize the company and the management of this company. What I have to say is that according to art. 328, para. 2 of the Labour Code, under the water management contract, the manager of this water company shall be entitled, within 9 months of its appointment and taking over, to make all necessary personnel changes which it considers necessary to optimize the management of the company it manages and all its affiliates. What I have as information about your question from the manager of the water company is that the personnel changes that you mentioned concern six management staff and three support staff. This is the reference at the time of your question. It is compared to the total number of this company, which currently is 571 people.. 1% of the total numerical composition of this water supply. So we cannot speak categorically about mass purge, as we are talking about 1.6% of the employees of this company, who have been replaced by other things, which I say again, is within its powers. If you have specific signals or a signal to me, do it to me, we will initiate an inspection if necessary, but let us not forget that this is a commercial company and its manager operates within the framework of the law and within the Labour Code, which gives him these powers. I hope this man has been the manager of this water company before, has his own management experience, also meets the requirements to run the company. So if you want, we can check it out with you. Perhaps the previous one, who was appointed within your management, has made similar changes to the structure. I hope this is not some reciprocity in dismissals and appointments, but to really seek professionalism in these personnel that are appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u102	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova, for a line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u103	Mrs. Minister, I understand from the answer that you transferred the responsibility of the new governor of Sofia, which is called Nikola Niv and that it was within his powers to decide what to do from now on. If you do not know, now let me tell you that Nikola Niv was already the manager of the Sofia region and left the company with minus 400 thousand. lv. loss. The next one, Tsanko Marinov, whom you are now firing, led the company to a positive financial result in 2014. What are you telling me now?! So we take out Tsanko Marinov, who fixed the financial situation of the company and took it to profit in less than a year, and we bring back a person who brought it to minus 400 thousand. in his previous term, because he has qualities. From then on, he shall be governed by the law........................................................................................................ 328 of the Labour Code, can appoint everyone down. Then let's talk about the Code of Labour, the Penal Code. If you don't know, I'll tell you what he did down there, because he's still your subordinate. He hires relatives, corrupt guys and incompetent people. Now I'm gonna decrypt every one of those words. The new head of the treatment plant in Samokov Daniela Stefanova is the goddaughter of Mrs. Yordanka Fandakova. The new head of Dragoman Boyko Nikolov is the owner of the property, which houses all the property of the water and who pays rent to himself, because as manager of the water and water supply company stores the property of the company on its own property. And guess what his first job as Dragoman's new boss is, naturally, to increase his rent and pay a higher rent to himself. The third thing I'm saying about incompetent people, I'm repeating my argument about Mr. Niv, which led to a water supply of minus 400,000. lv., which you are now recovering. Mrs. Pavlova, please note these facts. You're really risking it! In addition to objective and subjective reasons that exist for the state of the water sector and for the catastrophes in the country, you are artificially adding another new reason to the personnel problem. Whatever laws we adopt, whatever strategies, when we leave them in the hands of such people, the result will be disastrous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u104	Thanks for the line. Would you like a doppelganger, Mrs. Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, thank you for this signal. I hope you will make it official to me so that I can initiate and order an inspection, because in the end, as he is responsible as governor, the Ministry as principal will initiate the inspection. I think the truth always comes out, always things have two sides. I hope that we will be able to objectively analyse and assess the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u106	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Clear, precise and specific answer. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov on the poor condition of Road III. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The road Treklyano "Zemen connects Trekljanska municipality and Kyustendil district to Zemenska municipality and Pernik district. The bad condition of the road has made travelers difficult for years. The distance is about 17 km and due to the rapid shifts of the district governors and the government have not reached its resolution. My question is: has the Treklyano route been approved for rehabilitation and reconstruction of third-class roads for the 2014-2020 programming period?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Petrov! The third-class road you are referring to is probably route III-623 from the branch at Dupnitsa in the direction of Kyustendil to the village of Gabrashevtsi, I think you mean this section. The road section is located in the territory of two districts of Pernik district and Kyustendil district. On the territory of Pernik region is about 13 km along this road, it is in a much worse state, undoubtedly, than the section of the road that is located on the territory of Kyustendil district. This time is intended to take the necessary action by the Road Agency after the winter season is over. After each winter period, an analysis shall be carried out so that the compromised sections of the road can be patched up, which further worsen its condition, after winter cleaning and after the materials used to maintain it. This particular time is not part of the projects that are priorityd in the list for funding under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" in the part of the Roads, as we have a specific methodology on the basis of which the roads are analyzed in terms of traffic, which passes along them, from the perspective of the population they serve. And most importantly, as the Operational Program "Regional Development" nevertheless has its own limited resource, prioritizes roads leading to tourist attractions, roads with great traffic. Since this time he has not fully met these criteria, he has remained in more backward places. However, I would like to assure you that more than 135 km of the Republican road network will be rehabilitated in Pernik and Kyustendil district, which have entered this priority list, meeting exactly the criteria that you mentioned. However, for all roads that do not come as an opportunity to finance a comprehensive reconstruction, rehabilitation and repair under this operational programme, we will look for opportunities for their overall rehabilitation ahead in budgetary years. This year we will do either large-scale, where necessary, patching up road sections, or partial patching up, so that we can still bring the road into a relatively good operational state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u110	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u111	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the government pays attention to the smallest municipalities. The fact that rehabilitation will be started satisfies me because Treklyano is the municipality with the highest unemployment rate in the Kyustendil region and will thus have employment for the people and will reduce unemployment in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. You don't want a hole. The next three questions in a row are about roads again. The next question is from the MP Valentin Nikolov Ivanov about the poor condition of the road town. Dobrich Resort complex "Albena". Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u113	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Road II "71" of the city of Plovdiv. Dobrich to the resort complex of Albena has been in a miserable state for years, all the more so in the last eight months that this road road in the Batovo village is flooded three times, which has led to a serious violation of the pavement and has forced the closing of the road for motor vehicles to the resort complex of Albena. This time it is extremely busy, they travel on it both employees in the complex Albena and Bulgarian and foreign cars and buses with tourists. Visits of foreign tourists are held daily to the town. Dobrich and cultural landmarks in the area. The road is completely in holes and patches and this represents a serious danger and is a prerequisite for severe accidents of motor vehicles. Dear Minister, in what time will you take the necessary measures to renovate the road from the city. Dobrich to Albena Resort Complex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u114	Thanks for asking, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, we are continuing with your response on the topic of travel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! Yes, it is undoubtedly a fact that the condition of the road Dobrich is not good, the condition is unsatisfactory. The road has partial deformities, especially as this time and many roads near rivers, water spaces occur frequent floods and closing the road to restraint traffic. What we foresee within the limits of the budget that we have for this year, and partial repairs, especially under the emergency maintenance programme and ongoing repairs, especially in these more critical areas. Unfortunately for the overall resolution of the problem, for the overall rehabilitation of this road section, we do not currently have enough financial resources, but I hope that at least with these measures that we foresee for an emergency current repair, we will overcome some of the problems that travelers in this direction face, especially most often travelers, these are those working in the resort complex of Albena. In addition, I take the case to assure you that the other direction in this direction, related to the resort, is still ahead of the tourist season, this is the direction Varna That is why, when the analysis was conducted, according to a methodology for evaluation of projects under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014-2020, this time has an advantage, received a high score, it is also third in the list of projects with which the API will apply for the new operational programme. So I hope that our efforts will be directed towards the end of the year to renew the tender procedures so that we can as soon as possible in the next year also begin these repairs on this road section, and during all this time, of course, the efforts will be for the partial maintenance in relatively good condition and on the road of Dobrich Albena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u116	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line, I see you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u117	Of course. However, I would like to remind you that I have recently asked you a question about the road Dobrich "Varna" and I am pleased. I have received information, by the way, that, if it is true, I thank you for $11.5 million for rehabilitating the road. If that's true, thank you. Thank you for your answer, by the way, for the road Dobrich I am pleased that some partial repairs will still be made, because indeed you have also noted it, the road is in terrible condition, and yet the tourist season is coming and really must be made efforts and I hope that what you said will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Maybe we don't have the back. We remain on the territory of the Northern Black Sea coast and the roads there. Question from the National Representative Kalina Petrova Balabanova concerning the construction of a three-way speed section of the section Dobrich Varna and reconstruction of the village village of Lyuben Karavelovo sofia Aksakovo, a branch for the village of Dolishte, Aksakovo municipality. Here you are, Mrs. Balabanov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! We will deepen the topic of the road Dobrich Varna. My question in particular concerns the construction of a three-track road for the section of Dobrich Varna, as well as the reconstruction of the village of Lyuben Karavelovo until the branch of the village of Dolishte. Why is that important? Not a small part of the citizens of the district of Dobrich and Varna use these times daily in both directions because of the fact that their workplace is not located in the same municipality. Also, heavy duty loads are really serious. The values of the daily intensity of the car movement definitely suggest the construction of a third speed band along the road Dobrich Varna. The problem of traffic on this segment has existed for years, but unfortunately several governments have underestimated the situation. I would also like to focus on the particularly difficult condition of the part in the village of Lyuben Karavelovovo section near the branch for the village of Dolishte. This section is close to 5.7 km, and it is currently in a critical position and predisposes serious traffic accidents. My question to you is: does the government intend to start working on the construction of a road of speed on the road of Dobrich Varna and perhaps more urgently do you intend to reconstruct the village of Lyuben Karavelovovo to the branch for the village of Dolishte? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Balabanov! Yes, it is an undisputed fact, as I replied just a moment ago to the MP Mr. Ivanov in this section of the road there is serious intensive traffic, albeit mainly seasonal, given the service of the resort complexes along this road. That is why this project meets all of the criteria that we have set for its funding with European funds for overall reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of this road section within the framework of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014-2020........................................................................ The total value of the financial resource, which is, of course, indicative value, of the necessary funds is 19,3 million. BGN, which includes redesign, complete rehabilitation and reconstruction, road repair, including drainage systems and all accompanying measures, including measures for publicity. Of course, when we talk about European funding, this project has its own project readiness in the Road Agency and will be one of the first to, I hope, the Agency will have the opportunity to apply for funding after the final approval of the new Operational Programme, which I hope will happen this summer in order for the Agency to have applied for and received its approval by the end of the year and to take the necessary action to carry out the sections. And in answer to your second question: I confirm that the section from the village of Lyuben Karavelovovo to the village of Dolishte is included with the overall reconstruction that is needed there, is provided in this project in this direction. The area is entering between the two settlements because it is in really bad, critical condition. However, from what has been said so far, I regret to inform you that what we are predicting at this stage is a complete reconstruction, rehabilitation, including enlargement, if necessary in places, but not at this stage the construction of a third band. However, I believe that, despite the fact that there will be no third lane, when we bring the road into a good operational state with all the necessary measures provided for in the project meeting the criteria for this gauge and this class of roads, we will ensure a good passage Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u122	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Mrs. Balabanova, you're welcome to make your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Regarding the section of the village of Lyuben Karavelovo to the branch for the village of Dolishte, I think that it is possible for the government and you, in particular, as a minister, to think in advance about some repairs, because it is really tragic. I think colleagues as elected by Dobrich region and from Varna region will confirm this. I will personally undertake to request a reference from the Ministry of Interior about the number and seriousness of crashes in this area and will provide them to you because this reconstruction is not necessary, it is necessary at the moment, at least for this section of 6 km. As for the construction of a fast tape on the road Dobrich.. Varna, I would like to provide you with several more arguments in support of the request of absolutely all residents in these areas. This time, it concerns not only good people and Varna people who travel in both directions on a daily basis, but it is also important for the development of the region, especially after the future construction of the Black Sea Highway, as this time it will concern all citizens who want to reach the Kardam border. Let us not forget the area of tourism, especially after sanctions were imposed by the European Union towards Russia, Bulgaria lost the majority of Russian tourists. Let us not prove that we will also expel the majority of English and Romanian tourists. It is within your authority to take all necessary measures on my exposure to a problem. I'm counting on you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. You don't want a doppelganger. We continue with the next question, which is from the MP Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev regarding the Republic road 55-09 Svilengrad I hope that the solar eclipse that is currently underway has not fixed us on roads, but obviously the problem is extremely important. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Madame Minister! The question that I put to your attention concerns the state of Republican road 5509 Svilengrad This time it is a problem, real and extremely sharp for the people of the region, affecting not only the inhabitants of many villages of Svilengrad municipality and Haskovo district, but also of extreme state importance. I'm emphasising this! Please listen to me. This road passes parallel to the southern border with the Republic of Turkey and is important for its security, especially to ensure that the staff of the Border Police is able to carry out their responsibilities and duties in a timely manner, with the necessary speed of reaction. The last one or two years this time has become key, should receive due responsibility and attitude from the state and the competent minister, due to its immediate proximity to the main direction in which the flow of refugees is invaded and our border with neighbouring Turkey is violated. We must protect the border and therefore it is essential that the service road infrastructure is in proper functionality. At the same time, it is hardly necessary to remind you that we have been claiming to become a Schengen border for more than 10 years and this is actually part of the Schengen border. We claim that we have fulfilled all the necessary conditions, but if this time it is in this state, do you think we will not receive any comments if another inspection finds the actual state of the road infrastructure in this section of the border?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u126	Please ask your question because time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u127	Today, road 5509 Svilengrad is like after a bombardment. His condition hinders and hinders, and in places it makes communication impossible. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That is why my question to you is: do you expect this year's road to be urgently rehabilitated and when do you plan to make major repairs on this road?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Georgiev! Yes, the section of the third-class road Svilengrad is undoubtedly characterized by an increase in the intensity of the movement on it, especially by the Border Police teams, especially in the situation in which it is located. That is why, in the budget for the current renovation and maintenance, for 2015 we have provided a resource for partial patching of holes, partial strengthening, repair and rehabilitation of the most critical sections of this road. Unfortunately, budget opportunities do not allow for a comprehensive and lasting solution to the problems of this road, namely: reconstruction of the basis and complete rehabilitation, as the funds needed for this type of project are several million which the Agency does not have. As you know, the financial resources for a comprehensive but nevertheless, as we realize and see the importance, the importance of this time we have provided for it and these repair activities, which are planned for it, are planned between March and July or after the end of the winter season, starting with machine alignment of banquets, ground trenches and machine patching of these areas, which are most severely damaged in order to ensure the safe passage of this area and bringing it into a relatively good operational state. Of course, it is not ideally desired, but I hope that, despite all the measures that have been taken, they will create prerequisites for safer crossing both the Border Police and the people who live in the settlements along this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u131	Dear Minister, I am partly satisfied with your answer. I understand that you are making a firm commitment this year to at least partially repair and rehabilitate the road so that there is minimally any transport functionality. I hope that for the next year I will call you for this, this time it will be prioritized, it will be paid particular attention to it as a road related to our state border, to our Schengen border and it will be carried out with the necessary major repairs, reminding you that this is a problem with more than 20 years of statute of limitations. It is high time for the state and the minister in your person to pay attention to those roads that are along the border.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u132	Thanks for the line. I see you don't want the back. We continue with a question from the National Representative Willi Mladenov Lilkov concerning the development of a new Regulation No 2 on planning and design of communication systems in urbanized territories. Here you are, dear Mr. Lilkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is on Regulation No 2 on the planning and design of communication systems in urbanised territories. This is a regulation established in 2004, which is a basic regulation for the design of elements of the urban environment and the street network. This regulation shall comply with all infrastructure projects for repair, reconstruction or reconstruction of the street network. However, despite the partial changes that have been made in it, it is quite old and these practices are the reason why many projects financed under the operational programmes of the municipal or national budget cannot be completed qualitatively and in accordance with European practices and requirements. For example, the application of good practices in architecture, urban design, road construction and the formation of a safe and quality urban environment is difficult. Some of the criteria laid down in the regulation are exceeded, or the provisions are so laconic that they are considered restrictive, so the implementation of innovations or proven good practices becomes easily attackable in court. For example: this regulation hinders local authorities from prioritizing public transport by defining bus-bands; to bet and carry out construction of modern solutions for the reconstruction of street crossings and the establishment of complex transport nodes where different modes of transport intersect and interact; to set up new pedestrian zones. I stress here the need to define the so-called shared spaces in the urban environment; to make calm areas at a speed of up to 30 km/h or to apply in the construction of the bicycle infrastructure the modern generally accepted good practices of the European Union. Since 2010, the designers and builders are waiting for the new Ordinance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u134	If you please the question, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u135	Yeah. There's a promise from the Ministry for a new regulation. My question is this: can you commit yourself to a specific deadline for drafting a new Regulation 2 for planning and designing communication systems in urbanised territories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! Yes, Ordinance No 2 concerning the planning and design of communications networks in urban urban areas, concerning the improvement of urban environment, street networks, communications and underground communications, of course, which are located under these networks, is an essential element of urban planning and the activities that municipalities undertake to improve the urban and living environment, especially for safe road traffic. At present, Decree No 2 is in force, up-to-date and is the only basis on which local authorities are based in the design, repair, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the street network and in general transport systems in their cities. The European Directive, which concerns this type of network and infrastructure, was transposed in 2011. The team of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, unfortunately, in the last I would say a year and a half two, since this directive has been transposed, has not been much advanced. He hasn't advanced, not because he doesn't want to, of course, do it. In order to make a completely new regulation that meets all the requirements of the directive, we need a serious team of specialists, professionals, professors and serious capacity from the scientific communities, including specialized higher education institutions, so that correct calculations and recalculations can be made, because we are talking here about an extremely new, radically different system and approach in planning urbanized territories and their communication and transport systems and links. What I can assure you is that last month we created a team, first inside the Ministry, in order to analyse the specialists and the topics on which we need to work, in order to make sub-groups to work on the various topics. The large working group has already started, we are gathering representatives from the scientific communities, experts, NGOs and others to join it. For the moment, the team and the working group that is formed give a very long period of time - I have to be honest with you. They said it took at least 18 months for teams and sub-groups to analyse fully and approach seriously in the development of this regulation. I think it is right to give them the time and time needed, because the aim is not to do it quickly and to beat it, but to really do a serious analysis that will present us with a radically new, different and, hopefully, a better system for building and expanding communication links. I hope that in the next 18 months, maximum up to two years, this regulation is ready, to pass all public consultation procedures with discussion with all stakeholders and to achieve the desired result to the maximum extent and the renewal of the criteria and norms in the design of the construction of urban areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u138	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in, dear Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u139	Dear Mrs. Pavlova, thank you for your answer. It seems to me, of course, that this two-year period is too long, because from 2015 the implementation and development of integrated urban recovery and development plans for billions of pounds will enter the urban environment and the communication and transport infrastructure part. The longer we delay the development of this regulation, the more we deprive ourselves of the possibility with this money to modernise the urban country in accordance with European projects. Thank you for your willingness to work on this regulation, but my recommendation is as quickly as possible to arrange this work. Of course, the scientific institutions will help to develop it. Thank you once again, but I stress the need for this regulation, especially when billions of levs enter the European programmes and are invested in the urban environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u140	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. I don't see any desire for a douche. We'll continue with the next question. He is from the National Representative Durhan Mehmed Mustafa on the implementation of repair work on Route III You have the floor to develop your question, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! My question is about the implementation of repair work on Road III.. 2085 Ruen..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The road III "2085" is of particular importance as it is a very intensive movement section. This is the only way that buses carry workers from the municipality to sea resorts, namely to Sunny Beach. The state of the road does not create security for the safety of passers-by and school buses. In recent years, rural tourism, such as tourists visiting the municipality, has also increased mainly on this road. The condition of the above road, especially the Rouen section, is extremely poor with multiple holes and deformations, which leads to a sharp increase in serious accidents. The movement along this section cannot be normal and safe, even at the lowest speed of movement. I would like to stress that repair work with the laying of dense asphalt concrete has not been carried out in the last 20 years. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: Are the funds foreseen for the current 2015 repair work to improve the condition of the road I have indicated to Rouen.. Просеник........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u142	And thank you for the question. Minister Pavlova, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mustafa! I agree with you, the state of operation of this road road is unsatisfactory. This road section hasn't been repaired, hasn't been rehabilitated for more than 20 years. That's the reason for his condition. This time it is characterized by an average intensity of movement, mainly of cars and LCVs. What we are planning in the coming months after the winter season has ended under the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance is a partial mending of the compromised sections of this road, especially in this direction for the smaller section that you commented, namely Rouen Prosenik, which is indeed characterized by the worst data on its pavement. Unfortunately, we do not currently have enough financial resources for the overall rehabilitation and the overall repair of this road section. The preliminary calculations of Road Management show that the necessary financial resources for the lasting resolution of the problems of this road section are just over 5.5 million, which is, of course, the reason for the inability within the limits of the budget available to the Road Agency at the moment, to take these actions. It is therefore included in the category of current repair and maintenance of the road, which is made priority during the months of May and June after the winter season is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mustafa, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u145	Dear Minister, I would like to inform you that this is not just a car that moves on this road. The main part of the service staff who work in Sunny Beach live on the territory of the municipality of Rouen and on this road travel many buses that carry the workers for this resort complex. At the same time, I would like to point out that as a result of the renovation of the sports hall and the stadium in the village of Rouen in June of this year will be held the Republican Championship of Athletics. Repairing the road is essential for athletes and guests who will attend and participate in this Republican Championship. Perhaps one of the main reasons not to hold the International Championship of Athletics in the territory of one of the poorest municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria is precisely the state of the roads leading to this stadium. I would also like to stress that this stadium is perhaps the only one in the Republic of Bulgaria that meets the requirements for both Republic competitions and international athletics competitions. Therefore, my warm request to you is to do everything possible for this year, perhaps only partial rehabilitation, but for next year to devote the necessary resources to enable this poor area of our country to be able to develop both rural tourism and sports events that will take place in the future in this municipality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Mustafa. Minister Pavlova, you will not take advantage of your right to the doppelganger. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the MP Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva on the policy of the Council of Ministers for the development of the new municipality of Sarnitsa, Pazardzhik district. Here you go, Professor. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Decision No 285 of 9 May 2014 of the Council of Ministers and Decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria established a new 265th municipality of Sarnitsa, Pazardzhik district. After this municipality has been established, why it has not found a place in the 4th annual programme of the government, and on pages 55 and 59 of your programme writes respectively Where is he in the program, Minister, 265th municipality of Sarnitsa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, I would like to assure you of the efforts, opportunities, desire and commitment of the government and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in support of all Bulgarian municipalities. Not only that, each municipality, regardless of its size, regardless of whether the mayor is elected with the support of one or another political power, receives the government's support under the programmes, both those financed by the European funds and those under the standard budgetary procedure, which approves the budget subsidies of all settlements. As you rightly pointed out, the decision of the Council of Ministers was adopted in 2014, as of January 1st this year and the President's decree for the creation of the new 265th municipality, namely the Sarnitsa municipality. At the same time you know that according to the Bulgarian legislation, the final completion of the procedure for the formation of a municipality ends 60 days after the elections are held. With the holding of this election and the entry into powers of the mayor and the municipal council of the newly formed municipality will finalise the procedure for its formation. After the election of the mayor and municipal council, again within 60 days the municipal council has a commitment to predict to vote on the budget of the municipality of Sarnitsa. Currently the financial resources, subsidy, capital expenditure, the funds needed for the operation of this municipality are part of the funds of Velingrad municipality. After holding, I hope, successfully, the election of the mayor and municipal council of the municipality of Sarnitsa, within 60 days they will vote on their municipal budget and thus will be definitively separated and the procedure for the formation of the municipality of Sarnitsa will be completed. Nevertheless, whether the municipality of Sarnitsa is a separate municipality or, as it has so far functioned as part of Velingrad municipality, the municipality of Sarnitsa has its place, role and importance not only for the state, but also within the scope of the opportunities it has had so far, it is also available in the future, I guarantee you the possibility that it will participate as a beneficiary in the Operational Programme. There, and so far, there are funded projects to repair educational and road infrastructure, and in the future there will be an opportunity to receive its funding. You asked why in the program it says "264" and not "265"? The management programme was developed last year, in December 2014, when the purely formal municipality did not exist as a separate, independent municipality. However, this in no way affects and does not stop the possibility for the municipality to develop, to receive its support, to receive, as up to now, its funding, in which I want to assure both you and all residents of Sarnitsa municipality. You know that the funds from the operational program have been renovated educational infrastructure, and in the past years we have repaired the road to Sarnitsa. What we have as a commitment, predictions and talks is the creation and construction of a tour of the municipality of Sarnitsa, as well as the support of the newly formed municipality to apply for the new European programmes to improve the overall infrastructure of this population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Georgieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. The only positive thing that I and the residents of Sarnitsa municipality have heard in your response is that it is the object of your attention. You, unlike the open letter you sent last Friday through the media and admitted that there was a mistake by describing it as technical, were now not consistent to announce it in your reply, so I recall it. However, it is hardly possible for anyone to believe that this mistake is technical. Your confession is positive, anyway, that a mistake has been made. The government's programme is a very serious act, which is adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers for a reason. Before that, there is a severe and responsible coordination procedure between the different ministries, and in this particular case also between the coalition partners who form the quadruple ruling coalition, meaning there is no reasonable explanation for the absence of the 265th municipality of Sarnitsa from the programme. Therefore, Madam Minister, it is correct not only to apologize to the inhabitants of Sarnitsa, Copper meadows and Pobbit stone, and that is not enough, but to immediately correct your mistake. That you have uploaded corrections to the text of the program on the website of the Council of Ministers is not enough and you know it very well. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration, in order to correct the error, a decision amending Decision No 42 of 26 January this year, which validated the programme as an act on the basis of which the government directs and defines the policy internal and external, of the Republic of Bulgaria should be adopted. The movement for rights and freedoms, as a responsible political force with the greatest contribution to the establishment of this new municipality, will continue to exercise its constitutional right to parliamentary control so that the municipality of Sarnitsa can be fully operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Minister Pavlova? You will not take advantage of your right to a line. We are moving on to the questions of Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture. He will answer first a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov about the dangerous state of the Monument 1300 Bulgaria in front of the National Palace of Culture and the possibility of moving it to the Museum of Socialist Art to the Ministry of Culture. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question concerns the Monument in front of the National Palace of Culture and its wretched state, as well as the possibility to move it to the Museum of Socialist Art and to be properly preserved there, of course, without endangering others as it currently stands. Dear Minister, the monument in the NDK garden has been crumbling for years, and in recent years its condition has deteriorated permanently. Due to the danger it creates for pedestrians passing by from falling objects and whole stone plates, the monument is cut off with metal fences. At the end of December 2014, the Sofia Municipal Council decided to remove the monument, restoring the memorial plates of the First and Sixth Infantry Regiment, removed from the communist power. Although the majority of the capitalists have been supporting the removal of this monument for years, and they have even come up with a rather obscene name for it, a group of artists have declared their preservation as part of the historical memory. At the same time, the present state of the monument is miserable and the latter poses an honest danger to pedestrians passing by and children playing in the NDK garden. Representatives of Sofia Municipality also pointed out that for the construction of this monument there are a number of construction papers that question its status in general, the possibility to be restored to its current place and whether it was even legally built. Obviously, in this situation, the monument cannot remain in this place and in such a state. Its most logical location is in the Museum of Socialist Art, where it can be preserved under appropriate conditions and so as not to pose a threat to others. In this regard, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: what is the possibility that the Monument 1300 years Bulgaria from the NDK garden will be moved to the Museum of Socialist Art, where it will be stored as part of the expositions of the monuments of communism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Slavov, you've cut the time. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, in relation to your question, I would like to remind you that soon on the occasion of another question of your colleague Mr. Velizar Enchev, as a sculptor I detailed the professional arguments regarding the necessity of Bulgaria's monument to stay in its place and to be restored as it was erected and possibly changed at the discretion of the author. As a minister, I pleaded not to comment in the context of destruction and opposition, as I cannot imagine the cultural policy of the Political Party GERB to be associated with such actions. This policy has already two mandates aimed at the realization of major projects for development of the material base of culture, the preservation of cultural heritage and the improvement of the status of the Bulgarian Turks. In the preamble to your question, I regret to find that the opinion of the majority of citizens opposes the professional opinion of a group of artists against the backdrop of an anonymous urban folklore. The so-called group of artists is presented by the opinion of the leaders of the creative unions of architects and artists, the Expert Council on Fine Arts in the Ministry of Culture, NGOs, such as the Bulgarian National Committee of ICOMOS, the International Council on Cultural Monuments and Landmarks and others. In this sense, it can be argued that public opinion is not a clear and representative study on the issue, and should not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Slavov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I put this question at the same time with the other one you were commenting on, and two weeks ago it came out as an answer, but it just so happened that in time the two questions had passed. If you pay attention, you will notice that my question implies keeping the monument, that is, I am far from allowing myself at all to think that a work of art should be destroyed. On the contrary, I suggest we consider how to store it, but in a suitable place for that purpose. Look, I've got an up-to-date photo here. [[shows it]] I'll give it to you. At the moment the state of the monument is really miserable is something between a skeleton and a sculpted concrete with several sculptures that are left on it. At the same time, as I paid attention to this place, [[shows another photo]] Here's this picture I'll give you, on the fence people have placed photos of the removed memorial plates of the First and Sixth Infantry Regiment. They even made a place to put flowers and wreaths in order to honor the fallen soldiers. That is, there is an attitude among society to restore these tablets, which I do not need to comment on how they were removed at the time and in what disfigured way. In this sense, I ask you: let us consider what is the possibility of this monument being among the exhibitions of other similar ones. I've visited the Museum of Socialist Art more than once. It's actually your contribution to having this museum. People who didn't go, let them know that they can see huge sculptures there, like Lenin's monument, who was standing near Bulbank, the fivefold herself, who had beautified the top of the Party House and so on. There are many signs for that era of monuments or works of art and it is practically logical for this to join them. In this sense, it is also my question to move and preserve it, not to destroy it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Slavov, this question you are correctly putting, and this question will continue to be properly put. I'm only afraid of misinterpretation. First of all, I must explain that the Museum of Socialism is not a museum of totalitarian art for a simple reason that they are located there, from that period in which Bulgaria lived, works by some of the biggest Bulgarian masters from Zlatyu Boyadzhiev to Deko Uzunov. I can tell you frankly that it's called the Museum of Art during socialism. And it's no coincidence, because if there wasn't such a structure or, for example, if it didn't have this concept, the paintings themselves represent masterpieces by large Bulgarian artists. It is by no means a suggestion, such as sarcasm, but rather a storage of destruction at a stage in the development of Bulgaria, no matter what the stage is. Secondly, I have to inform you that the Monument is not a socialist monument, but a Monument - 1300 years of Bulgarian state. Of course, as you say, he's in severe condition. But it would be right for me, too, as a sculptor, to say, with a living author, that it was a particularly modern monument, which was made exactly in totalitarian times in Europe, was considered one of the most modern. He broke the cliché of the guerrilla readings and the Chavdars. This modern, good monument, unfortunately, has been ruined for many years. I did my hard work as a sculptor to make a calculation of his recovery will cost much less, there are modern funds than to break down, because it costs money, and to build a new one, because it will also cost money. The other thing I'd like to tell you. Somehow it's not honorable and moral with a live author who has copyrights, and a good, big Bulgarian author, I've studied. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Let's tear it down without his knowledge and make contests. The most normal thing is for him to agree or to break down, which will cost a lot of money, or to be assigned again to the same big Bulgarian sculptor to do a more sustainable project. But this is now the job of the Sofia Municipal Council. They have that right. It's wonderful what you're offering. He doesn't belong in the Museum of Soccer. But as a professional, I'll tell you that there's a figure missing and a flag that was bronze. The rest of the building is solid. There are such modern tools as aluminum. Although I allow myself to design, I do not have the right to do such a thing. This is the work of the author. But the monument could by less means be repaired, rather I ask you and appeal instead of destroying everything. I was against it when the Mausoleum collapsed...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u160	Please graduate, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u161	I would make money for culture from tickets and make a wax figure of Dimitrov. Let's not tear it down easily. Let us unite and see how to restore the center of Sofia in order to make it acceptable, friendly and beautiful Bulgarian city. The rest is very simple and easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I gave you a minute and a half more because of the importance of the problem. Would you like a double, Mr. Slavov? [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]] You're done, as the next question is also from you. Welcome to the stands, you or Mr. Willy Lilkov. You have asked about the policy of the Ministry of Culture regarding monuments from the communism era and opportunities for their preservation in the Museum of Socialist Art at the Ministry of Culture, including the Monument of the Soviet Army in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, yes, the next question is born with the first one, but if we were talking about a monument here, we are asking you about the overall policy: does the Ministry of Culture intend to undertake such a policy to move and place these monuments in the Museum of Socialist Art, where, at least in my opinion, it is logical for them to be found, as this museum was created for this? Dear Minister, in recent years many monuments created during the communism era and reflecting this era have been abandoned and destroyed. A good initiative was the creation of the Museum of Socialist Art, where similar monuments to find a place, especially those which to this day divide the Bulgarian society. The latter are often subject to periodic abuse, as an expression of the position of one group or another in society, which is a source of additional tension. In the Museum of Socialist Art have found a place and are stored as part of the historical memory monuments of Georgi Dimitrov, Lenin, even the famous pentagram, located at the top of the former Party Home in the center of Sofia until 1990. Perhaps the most controversial and most frequently painted monument of this era is the Monument of the Soviet Army, located in the center of Sofia. According to polls, the majority of Sofians believe that the site of this monument is not there. Logically, the question arises: can the monument also be moved to the Museum of Socialist Art? In this way it will be preserved, and also protected from the periodic attacks on it. For the last Sofia Municipality is forced to engage additional resources for 24-hour security for its conservation of its current location. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer this question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Culture regarding the monuments of communism that reflect this era? And is there an opportunity for the Museum of Socialist Art to accept as conservation, preservation and as part of the exhibition of monuments and the Monument of the Soviet Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u164	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! Dear Mr. Slavov, regarding the question you made regarding the preservation of works of art from the period after World War II to the democratic changes in 1990, I inform you that the Ministry of Culture created a branch of socialist art at the National Museum of Bulgarian Fine Arts. In principle, the museum institution has two main characteristics. It contains movable cultural values, including works of chivalrous art, which are not related functionally or meaningly in the environment. Secondly, it was created to search, study and preserve these cultural values and works, ensuring their preservation and providing the necessary conditions for their presentation to the public. In this context, the policy of the Ministry of Culture with regard to the monuments of that period should be considered. In the country there are hundreds of memorial objects and signs dedicated to historical events and personalities of that time created for their designated place and situated in a specific architectural spatial context. Under the Cultural Heritage Act, the Minister of Culture agreed investment projects for the construction and installation of monuments, monumental and decorative structures and elements in public spaces and urbanised extra-urban areas, as well as their relocation or removal after a decision of a specialized expert council on fine arts. By appreciating your concern for the fate of such works of art, I assure you that the Ministry of Culture under the Law on Cultural Heritage will examine all specific proposals and initiatives submitted in accordance with the Law on Structure of the Territory and Regulations. In this regard, given the frequent requests for the relocation and removal of memorial structures, I inform you that, except from a meteorological point of view, despite past precedents and due to the scale of these objects, the philosophy of socialist art could not physically satisfy such initiatives. At the same time, I believe that despite the different attitude towards semantic meaning and discussion of monuments, today our society is mature enough and will not allow manifestations of devastating vandalism. Last but not least, the financial aspects of such ideas should also be taken into account. The importers should examine their parameters and possible sources of funding. At present, the budget of the Ministry of Culture does not provide funds for such purposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, you have two supplementary questions for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Rashidov, I would like to ask: have you received proposals to move the monument, because you say that almost such an attitude to move the monument, we are not talking about its destruction, there is none? Do you share the view that when a monument in this case divides society, this issue should not be put to discussion because once and for all it is given and there is no point in talking about it anymore? The Monument of the Soviet Army is located in one of the most prominent spaces of Sofia, and public spaces have the intention to unite people, not divide them. This monument divides our society. In this sense, I think it is very correct, and I would like to hear your firm opinion is not exactly the place of this monument in the Museum of Socialist Art? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u168	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Secretary, come in. This time you have three minutes to answer. Please be very quiet in this room. Colleagues, with so few MPs, making so much noise is unnecessary. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear friends! Look, I have one thing to say. Your question is clear and clear, but the answer will be slightly different. We need to know that monuments are divided into state, municipal property, urban property, initiative committees and foundations. This issue of elimination we have been with you municipal councillors and we know that it should be resolved. Of course, everything can go away. Another question is whether this is necessary. Whether we're going to continue to be misled so that we can look for serious architects, people can say what should be accepted and what should be removed. If the monument goes away. I've built this museum so they won't be melted down so they don't get thrown out, I've taken out of the basement wonderful works, like Iliya Petrov's The Slaughter is a masterpiece in itself as painting, so I'm going to collect these monuments, but the decision has to take it another. Believe me, it's not the Ministry of Culture that has to decide what's to be removed, what's not to be removed. Nevertheless, we need to distinguish ourselves very seriously as Parliament and as a country from vandalism. Nowhere in the world can you spray-paint anything you want, it's not allowed, excuse me. The canvas is the place, either the painting, or the sculpture, or the clay, where creativity is experienced. What we've been watching for years is a little vandalism. As it sounds, I'm a sculptor and I say it like that. My answer is simple. It'll be easy to get rid of everything. Is this gonna fix the things we're fighting for? Let this decide each owner who owns the territory and the monument to which it is held. Of course, if the state makes such decisions, I will obey any decision of the Bulgarian state, because who am I to oppose it?! But let's say this is our dividing line. We want, we don't want a eraser period we can't erase. It's more important how we walk from here on, even with the signs that are left in time. Today, you know we've been digging up the ground and pulling stuff since Krum's time, and they always need to get into the museum sooner or later. There's always room in the museum, better not to break them down there's always room. Thank you. [[Applause from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Slavov, about the attitude to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, once again I will draw attention to the fact that we are talking everywhere about moving, nowhere are we talking about destruction or destruction, as some people in society allow themselves, because the reformers appreciate the work of the artist and that it should practically be preserved for generations, but we express the position that monuments from the communist era are in the Museum of Socialism. In that sense, again, we're talking about moving, not destroying. In this regard, I also refer to what you have said, which is precisely this vandalism, which you mentioned, that often happens, this will be one of the ways to be limited and practically stopped, because there they will be both guarded and properly stored. As for the question of what other countries of the European Union have done with such monuments as almost everywhere I think there is, not to say anywhere, I will give you concrete examples of other non-bad decisions other than being moved to a museum. Just recently in Estonia, the process of moving the Monument of the Soviet Army was completed. He was moved to the military cemetery there in Tallinn, where in fact are the graves of many dead Russian, Ukrainian and other soldiers from the then Soviet army, so he found a logical place as a memorial precisely to cherish the memory of all these people who died in World War II. Similar examples are available both in Ukraine and in the Czech Republic and in many other countries. We reformers believe that these are good examples and this is the modern approach to finding a solution to this problem. As for Sofia, the place chosen for this monument clearly does not fit with the architectural environment in the City Garden where it is placed, and it is practically in a place where it does not belong. In this sense is our question at all about the overall policy of the Ministry regarding such monuments. I'm going to end up with what you said in the end in terms of hearing people's will. I've also commented with colleagues and colleague Willy Lilkov. From the Reformation Bloc we will think seriously about initiating a local referendum to say the word to the citizens of Sofia whether this monument should remain there or should be moved and stored elsewhere at the Museum of Socialist Art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u172	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The next question is again to the Minister of Culture. I'm gonna have to ask you to be quiet. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Mr. Stoilov, don't get into any trouble. [[Reply from Minister Vejdi Rashidov.]] You have no right under procedure, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Penkov Ivanov on the conservation and preservation of cultural and historical monuments in Vidin district. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question concerns the preservation and preservation of cultural and historical monuments in the territory of Vidin district. Dear Minister, Vidin District has a rich cultural and historical heritage. On the territory of the district are located some of the unique cultural monuments in our country Over the years, these sites have not been registered in an archaeological real estate conservation regime. The listed cultural monuments are of great importance for the development of Vidin district as a modern and preferred cultural and historical destination. They have not only local but above all great national importance for Bulgaria. I think it is normal to work for the imposition of strict rules for the preservation of the priceless national wealth found in the old-fashioned Vidin and the district. As Minister of Culture, you are entrusted to conduct a policy for the preservation and development of the national cultural and historical heritage. In this regard, I ask you to answer my following question: what action will you take to protect and preserve cultural monuments in Vidin district?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u175	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in relation to the preservation of the rich cultural heritage of the country priority in the policy of the Ministry of Culture are the improvement of the regulations, the development of the conservation system, the increasing role of local authorities and communities, the realization of projects financed through the financial mechanisms of the European Union, funding according to the budget of field archaeological studies and specialized conservation and restoration activities. These country-wide priorities are also directly related to the preservation of cultural values in Vidin district. In this sense, I should remind you that in the National Register of Real Cultural Values in the territory of Vidin there are included 590 sites. Of these, 197 are with the status declared in the Official Journal of the European Union, 393 are with the status of declared real cultural values, 42 sites possess a category of national importance, among which are the sites referred to by you: the Castle of Baba Vida. At the insistence and with funding from the Ministry of Culture, the National Archaeological Institute and Museum of BAS resumed the field archaeological studies of the Roman city of Raciaria and Roman necropolis, the village of Archar, the municipality of Dimovo after decades of interruption. A concept for carrying out archaeological research in a short-term three-year program was developed. The Ministry of Culture has restored the Cross barracks for the needs of ethnographic expositions and has built an adjoining infrastructure. The Ministry of Culture seeks to make it appropriate to spend limited financial and personnel resources throughout the country and to protect different cultural heritage in nature and problems. There is no country in the world where the state has fully committed itself to the preservation of these values. Therefore, the Bulgarian legislator has regulated the National System of Conservation and has established certain commitments and responsibilities of different entities in it. In this context, the Ministry of Culture pursues a state policy aimed at strengthening the potential of all participants and partners in this process for realising the objectives of preserving the country's cultural heritage in the interests of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the right to reply for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, given that some of these monuments are in extremely difficult condition, there is a need for urgent action for their preservation, preservation and prevention of possible malicious acts against them. In view of the fact that we are already at the beginning of the new programming period, possibly what funding could be provided in 2015 and is there any of the listed sites that are priority for funding and preservation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u179	Dear Mr. Ivanov, I understand your concern for this end. Of course, there are extremely good monuments in it, but their status needs to be clarified. Once again, we are very often mistaken by giving the status of the monument, and we forget that the owner has to take care of it. Very often the owner is different. Of course, no projects have been made to Vidin for years. You remember that I have made a European project and one of the unique buildings in Vidin the Cross barracks, today is a wonderful museum "Archaeological and Ethnographic." This job has to go on. You have a unique building that if we lose in Vidin, I will regret great. It's the Jewish temple, the Synagogue, a unique building, a unique architecture in itself. There you could all be useful when the status is clarified so that we can apply not only for there, but for many more sites that concern Vidin. Of course, we need funds from the outside, because all the questions that are about money, we had to think about them when we accepted the budget. We're a little short on budget. I want to be responsible for saying that it's short. Otherwise, there are over 40 thousand monuments in Bulgaria. You know everybody does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, to wish you a pleasant day and a pleasant job! We move on to a question for the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. The question is from the MP Borislav Sabinov Iglev about the license of the Bulgarian laboratory for doping control. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! In the first cabinet Borisov built and equipped Bulgarian anti-opping center, which invested nearly 8 million. lv. The objectives of the centre are to prevent the use of prohibited substances and prohibited methods in sport. This activity is extremely important for Bulgarian athletes who have been forced to study in foreign laboratories for years. In this regard, I ask you to answer: at what stage of licensing is currently the Bulgarian Doping Laboratory? Are tests and samples performed on the youth teams? In this sense will the Bulgarian anti-opping center perform samples for the upcoming European games in Baku? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iglev, one of the main priorities in the programme of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the period 2014 - 2018 are the prevention and control of the use of doping in sport. To achieve this goal, the main goal before the Doping Control Laboratory at the Antidopping Center for the first six months of 2015 was to obtain accreditation according to the laboratory standard of the Bulgarian accreditation service, this standard being mandatory for the World Anti-opping Agency. All the documents and experimental requirements of the Executive Agency were prepared for an accreditation procedure. Accreditation is a long process in which the laboratory proves its competence and modern methods of analysis. The news is that the first important stage of accreditation has been successfully passed, namely obtaining a license under the Bulgarian State Standard from the Bulgarian accreditation service as a test laboratory on the ban list of the World Anti-opping Agency. This happened after two full internal audits, evaluation of documentation on more than 500 pages, evaluation of the site for the initial accreditation of the Executive Agency. In December 2014, the Council of Ministers approved a regulation on doping control in training and competition. It fully corresponds to the world anti-opping code, which has been in force since January 2015 and is consistent with all the regulations of the world anti-opping agency. The next step in obtaining an international license is preparing and sending a strategic plan for testing 3000 samples per year and visiting by the World Anti-Doping Science Department on-the-spot assessment agency. With the support of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the laboratory has the ambition to obtain international accreditation from WADA by the end of 2016. Currently, the laboratory together with the Antidoping Center and the Endocrinology Section of Plovdiv Medical University has submitted a scientific project to the World Anti-opping Agency within its research. The question is whether tests and samples of the youth teams are carried out and, in this sense, the Bulgarian Anti-opping Center will perform samples for the upcoming European Olympic Games in Baku. Prevention of doping use is one of the leading activities in the Antidoping Center. Educational programmes are carried out each year which contribute to protecting health from the destructive action of doping, improving life skills, preserving sports ethics and reducing the risk behaviour of adolescents. The Antidopping Center conducts training of young people in sports schools in the country, youth and national teams of Bulgaria, as well as assists sports federations with information stands during their championships. The Antidopping Center's mission is to cover in its informational and educational activities precisely the group of adolescents who are easily motivated to use doping substances with unpredictable consequences. The Antidopping Center participates in UNESCO's anti-opping education project. Students aged 15 to 19 years are covered, seven sports schools and four homes for children deprived of parental care both in the capital and in the cities of Varna, Burgas, Plovdiv, Vratsa, Kyustendil, Dupnitsa and the villages of Sliv and Doganovo. Young people get acquainted with the harmful consequences of drug use, participate in practical cases and interactive games, in discussions and solving polls. Adolescents are given information brochures, an up-to-date list of prohibited substances and methods. In addition, various games are uploaded on the Antidoping Center website by both athletes and sports and technical persons. Antidopping training was held during the European Youth Fighting Championship in Samokov and during the World Championship for Youth and Youth in fencing. As part of the prevention every year, doping tests are carried out on students as well. 60 checks are carried out annually for students from sports schools in the country. In connection with the upcoming European games in Baku, the Antidopping Center has placed 109 blood and urine doping tests in its annual plan for all participants who have won quotas. More Bulgarian contestants are expected to participate in Baku, which is why there will be a change in the number of doping tests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u184	To remind you of the time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u185	The Antidopping Center will organize and conduct training of competitors and sports and technical staff. Currently, the Antidopping Center together with lawyers of the Ministry of Youth and Sports prepare for approval a National Strategy to combat the use of doping in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've given a comprehensive answer. We're running out of time. Mr. Iglev, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable colleagues, thank you for your reply, Minister Kralev! The presence of the Antidopping Center and laboratory to it will give a whole new opportunity, which so far our athletes could not use. We can't expect good results from our athletes without having a model of an anti-opping lab. We have examples from the recent past that required precisely the presence and functioning of such a laboratory. It has repeatedly required samples of our athletes to be sent, for example, to Germany, which requires at least more technical time. I believe that this is an extremely positive step in the Bulgarian sport and I hope that we will walk the way to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u188	Thank you to Mr. Iglev. Mr. Minister, will you use your coat? That was the only question for you. To wish you a good job. We move on to questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. It's five questions. One of them's canceled. The first question to Minister Petkova is from the MP Stanislav Todorov Stanilov on an economic assessment of a project for development of a tungsten field in the region of Velingrad. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Minister! The investment plan for the development of tungsten deposits in the region of Krastava village, Velingrad Municipality, has sparked fierce discussions in the region. The investor company received a 25-year concession for the extraction and processing of containing tungsten ores in the Gruncharitsa locality. According to expert assessments, we are talking about the second tungsten field in Europe. During the public discussion it was announced that the investor intends to open 450 jobs, by the way with an average salary of 1500 BGN, and to provide professional training and re-qualification of the workers at his own expense. Construction of infrastructure of the site with employed 300 builders is envisaged. The people of the Middle Rhodope region are divided. On the one hand, a successful project would significantly reduce unemployment in Krastava and the surrounding neighborhoods where it is over 90%. In addition, its implementation is expected to improve infrastructure which is in extremely difficult condition and in the winter period almost unusable. On the other hand, the public in Velingrad is worried about the possible pollution of the area, which with its mineral springs is one of the big spa centers in Bulgaria, and the representatives of the tourist industry do not believe in the company EIA. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what is the overall assessment of your ministry for the project, what will be the revenues from its concession fees and taxes, what is the origin of the funds with which the project was financed, and what is its place in the total European production of the rare tungsten metal? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stanilov! As the holder of permissions for search and exploration of underground wealth since 2003, issued by the Minister of Economy.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to established stocks and resources, the site of Gruncharitsa is the second existing within Europe with serious economic potential. As a result of the geological studies carried out, a commercial discovery certificate was granted and it enabled the trading company to be designated directly without a tender or a concessionaire contest for the extraction of underground wealth. In accordance with the requirements of the Law on Underground Treasures in the then Ministry of Economy and Energy, an application was made by.................................. for a concession for 35 years. Within the statutory period the specialized administration of the Ministry has carried out the compulsory conciliation procedure under art. Art. 26, Art. 32 of the Law on Underground Treasures, with all the opinions of the individual departments being taken into account. At its meeting, the Council of Ministers adopted the investment intention and by Decision No 372 of May 2009 it appointed as a concession holder without tender or a competition the company of the business. On 16 July 2009, a concession contract for the extraction of metallic minerals and tungsten containing ores for a period of 35 years was concluded by the decision adopted. On the basis of the estimates of the applicant concessionaire, the average annual concession payment was set at BGN 812 708, 50% of the proceeds or the amount of more than 400 thousand. lv. will be charged annually on the budget account of Velingrad Municipality. For the fulfilment of the obligations under the concession contract is provided and granted by the Bank guarantee, as well as financial guarantee for the execution of the liquidation and/or conservation activities of the mine, and the reclamation of the land affected by the concession activities. The concessionaire is also obliged to provide a bank guarantee for the implementation of the activities provided for in the mining waste management plan. For the duration of the concession, new jobs will be opened in the region, suppliers will be employed to carry out various accompanying activities. The economic recovery is expected to increase the revenue from local taxes and fees in the municipality as a result. Finally, I believe that the realization of the investment intention is in a positive economic aspect, but it should be carried out with the consent and support of the local authorities and with full respect for environmental legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u192	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u193	Dear Minister, with all due respect to you, I am not satisfied with your answer. My question made the following sense: the position of the Ministry in relation to the production of tungsten in Bulgaria. You said something about the state of tungsten mining in Europe. Indeed, this is the second locality in Europe, the first is in Austria. For information to colleagues and to all who are watching on national television our parliamentary control, the second locality that is being exploited, is in Austria and it is located in a national natural reserve where I have been. There, the issue of environmental pollution is not raised at all. The problem is does the Ministry intend really, knowing that the opposition of the municipality is great and that even my constituents in this municipality are against, given that the MPs from the ruling GERB did not take any such position at all, the leader of the list of GERB in the Pazardzhiski electoral district came to the meeting in Velingrad and said that GERB I was at this meeting I have asked the question because I feel that the power in Bulgaria is hesitant to take a position on this extremely important issue, that the emphasis on the use of natural resources in the European Union and Bulgaria in particular has in the European Commission. So I call you from this tribune, and I am an opposition, and I cannot influence anything of the government, and I urge you from this tribune to really take a position and tell the citizens what will happen next, what will be the fate of the tungsten field? It's been developed in communist power. There were 147 drills made and all this was known. The additional development is just a study of documents, so my question has been asked. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One moment, Mr. Chairman, I'm coming. You may not come out and answer me, I am aware that the government does not really have a position on this issue. My call is to think about and really have some vision of this yield, with these jobs, with these revenues and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u194	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Would you like to take advantage of the right to a line? Yeah. Minister Petkova for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stanilov, I am far from thinking that the government has no vision on this issue. On the contrary, within its competence, the Ministry of Economy and Energy before, now the Ministry of Energy has clearly stated its position. There was also correspondence held in mid-2014 and in March 2014 there was a correspondence held according to which the opinion of the Ministry was expressed, stating that the concession procedure had passed according to the legal order and that there were no grounds for claims in terms of legality in relation to the grant of the concession. However, our position is clear that this concession must be implemented in strict compliance with environmental legislation and, of course, taking full account of the interests of the citizens of Velingrad municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u196	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova is postponed at the request of the National Representative. Question from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov concerning the actions of the Minister of Energy in holding of a next tender for public sale to Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u197	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, the question I am asking you has a very large, concrete but fundamental importance. In order for our conversation to be as useful and as serious as possible, I would like to start by saying that I regret that the previous government has not solved the question that I am now asking, despite the public commitments made by the Minister of Economy. Whether the time alone has not reached, or there were other reasons, this is now a matter of another discussion. You know that the second tender for the sale of the company in bankruptcy has recently ended. Maybe it's a good thing he ended up with no results. Now we're going to the final phase of this procedure. You are aware and I ask the question to you, as the biggest creditors, respectively the demands of "Himko" in its various reincarnations over the years, are state-owned companies "Bulgargas" and NEK, including there are tax obligations, but the state with some rudeness holds about 90% of what is to be obtained in the sale of the company. Despite the reduction in these claims, there are currently around 80 million. BGN, i.e. more than enough to meet the tender price, which was offered by just over 20 million. BGN, now you have the opportunity to proceed to negotiations with potential buyers. This enables the state to prevent another destruction of remaining Bulgarian scrap companies or to be taken by people who will develop some partial activity, but it will not create employment or economic development. My question is: are you discussing the possibility precisely by means of the funds that you have and the state will not pay, as this will be an accounting operation, and when the sale of the assets will hardly occur more than a few million, i.e. these companies will not be satisfied, there is a possibility that two of the installations with the introduction of small additional funds will work? From there are already questions about the price of natural gas, about the organization, but these are follow-up questions. My question is: will you discuss the possibility of proposing a scheme for which the State can show that it can acquire these residual assets and seek again a partial development of production in this undertaking? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Minister Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Stoilov, by decision of 7 December 2014 in the case of Commercial Case No 290 of 2004 of the Vratsa District Court was declared the insolvency of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Vratsa AD and the insolvency proceedings were opened. On 30 September 2005, the creditors' meeting approved a rescue plan proposed by the Syndicates. In 2007, the insolvency court validated a plan for the recovery and termination of insolvency proceedings of the State and in the beginning of 2011. As creditors, the insolvency proceedings are being resumed due to failure to comply with the rescue plan. The same request was made by the National Revenue Agency with an application from June 2011. In December 2011, the Vrachanski District Court left disrespectful requests of Appeals have been brought against the court's decision. By decision of June 2012, the Sofia Court of Appeal annulled the decision of the Vratsa District Court and resumed the insolvency proceedings against the State. The proceedings aim to ensure the fair satisfaction of creditors and the possibility of rescuing the debtor's undertaking. In the present case, the creditor, Bulgargaz, is the holder of a claim of 52 million. 562,000. lv. owns more than half of the claims of "Himko" and can therefore manage the insolvency process independently, without regard to the existence or absence of consent for certain decisions by the other creditors. On 14 March 2014 the Commercial Register was registered with Energy Investment Company (EAD) with the subject of activity development and implementation of new technologies, investment activity, entrepreneurship, processing, supply and trading of energy and natural resources, as the statutory capital of the company, which is 100% owned by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, is 50 thousand. lv. The intention was evident from the documents that were drawn up in connection with the establishment of this company, through the newly created company to participate in the public sale of On 19 March 2014, the first tender for the sale of Five hundred thousand. lv. However, no candidates have appeared for participation in the procedure, including the Energy Investment Company. On 6 March 2015, a second tender was held for the sale of Chimko and the price was respectively reduced to 22 million. $800,000. lv. Again, no candidates for participation in the procedure, including the Energy Investment Company. The next steps to be taken is to proceed to a tender for the sale of the parts of Chimko. It is apparent from the two tenders held without any candidates that, in practice, an investor interest in In addition, however, it should also be noted that in practice there may also be complications in relation to the presence of foreign ownership in the territory of I think that this may have been one of the reasons why my predecessor Mr. Stoynev did not proceed to such a step, as it is the property of other legal entities, property that is located in the territory of. In fact, the property is on very important sites - these are the thermal power plant and the railway station. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] These two structures are very important in order for the company to function, if it is eventually resumed and started working, to produce certain production. In fact, this foreign property will in any way hinder or simply cause this process not to develop in the way that the owner of the State would want this to happen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In view of this, as well as taking into account the financial situation and the lack of liquidity in the energy companies at the moment, I believe that at present it is unjustified for the State to invest in state-owned energy companies to participate in the acquisition of property in.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u200	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Stoilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u201	Madam Minister, it remains to see if there will be governments in Bulgaria that can act in accordance with public interests. I know that Chimko is brought to this state because of the separation of the TPP, there are problems with the railway station, that is, it was a whole complex that could function economically. Talk to the Prime Minister about this if you have to. He said he was independent of the oligarchs. Plus, here you can find partners and talk about these issues, you understand me well, who otherwise support you in many votes, so that a solution can be reached. This is the last chance! I've spoken to the citizens of Vratsa in the last term. There was no other matter to which they showed such sensitivity and such a hesitant hope. In Bulgaria, if we do not start doing reindustrialization, under which I understand two things and opportunities to create new productions, but also using some still existing ones, which instead of being naked lawn, or causing primitive enthusiasm in some analysts and journalists, how there is now a naked lawn, by removing all the outdated iron, there will be miracles. You know that's probably not gonna happen. There are installations that contain many valuable elements and materials. This is the last generation of chemists who have participated in the construction of the plant can help and if the State acquires this company, it can form a company on its own or with the demand of another investor. That's why this energy investment company was built. I think it is not disbanded and may appear, but you have to make an action model, because there are some issues in the Commercial Law, which are not entirely concerned about how the terms with the trade union will become, what groups will they have to negotiate. Please assign some group, if there are still people who understand economics in the Ministry of Economy and Energy, and not just officials, the issue is solved. I'm ready to cooperate. I do not have any economic interests to be clear here that the issue is really principled, national and affects the development of the Bulgarian economy and the lives of people, in this case from Vratsa and the region, but this can become a model that can be applied in different places to other enterprises. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Minister Petkova, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I fully understand your concern and share it because last week I had the opportunity to visit this region of Vratsa and Vidin. Indeed, there the unemployment rate is very large. I absolutely agree that production must be revived somehow. In my opinion, the bigger question is: why did it come to this with Chimko? That's the big question, and why do we have to think about how... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] This privatisation did not happen during the rule of the Political Party GERB for sure, so maybe this is the more important issue. Now these one or two installations that you think can function, how they could function independently of the entire rest of the complex. That's actually the big problem. As I mentioned, there's someone else's property there. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u204	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u205	The ownership of many important sites is actually of other legal entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u206	Talk to these people!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u207	At this stage, the financial situation of the energy companies simply does not allow such an investment to be made. I really hope that in the future, if things stabilize... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Nobody shows up to get him... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u208	What are you doing, what procedure is it now, Mr. Stoilov and Mr. Bojinov? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u209	The state at this time has no surplus resources to invest in such a thing. This, of course, does not prevent a detailed analysis, anyway this Energy Investment Company was established in 2014. Let's do our analysis, see what activity it has had so far and I will inform you subsequently. Thank you. [[Replications from the MPs Georgi Bozhinov and Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov about the collapse of the energy system and the introduction of restrictive mode for power supply. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Minister, due to the complicated weather situation in Bulgaria for the period 5 March 2015 the energy system of the country went into emergency mode. According to your ministry, 45 long lines have gone out of service, 6 substations have been shut down and over 1,000 settlements have been powerless, in most of them a disaster situation has been declared. As a result of the introduction of a restrictive regime or our well-known from the past, the current system in 2015 the residents of the districts of Sofia, Plovdiv, Kardzhali, Haskovo, Smolyan, Pazardzhik, Blagoevgrad and Stara Zagora were forced to buy, imagine, candles, gas lamps; to store them with cans; to be unable to move when needed between settlements; there were no mobile communications; there were no ATMs working, there was no bread, medicines and first-time products, no functioning state institutions. Municipal employees had to go around the settlements with megaphones to report when the current would be on. There were dozens of reports of people in distress in various settlements in Ataka. Once again, it has proven that the state is not ready to face such natural disasters and react adequately. In this regard, I would like to be answered: which government officials, institutions, private electricity distribution companies will take responsibility for the created chaos in Bulgaria, the collapse of the energy system and the imposed electricity mode? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, as you yourself noted, between 5 and 9 March 2015 the weather situation in Bulgaria was really complicated. Let me just add that, according to the hydrometreological service, we are talking about an extraordinary natural disaster, which is expressed at the same time in a complete interruption of road connections between settlements and a complete interruption of their power supply, as well as of mobile communications. The situation that has been created is really without an analogue in the past years. There are 17 areas left without electricity. The necessary mobilisation was created to overcome the crisis, with all state institutions taking urgent measures to address the emergency situation. Company duty teams from the Ministry of Energy system were receiving and processing real-time information about the state of the energy system as soon as the signals for power failure were received. As Minister of Energy, I have taken coordination action to address the crisis situation, immediately sending the two alternate ministers on site to carry out appropriate operational control and assistance to the emergency teams of the enterprises. During the crisis situation, the power system operator and the power distribution companies directed additional teams and equipment to the most affected regions. A total of over 1500 people of emergency teams worked on the country's territory to eliminate accidents with over 350 pieces of equipment. In the period from 7 March to date, 18 aviary substations were restored, 42 power lines, currently in emergency condition are 2 power lines. By March 20, there were 28 non-electric settlements with a total of 964 subscribers, the main part being lots in fork areas. At the moment 217 people from emergency teams with 73 pieces of equipment continue to work until the damage has been completely removed. In view of the crisis situation and on the basis of my powers, under the Energy Act and art. 3, para. 1 of Decree No 10, I issued an order for the introduction of a restrictive regime for the supply of electricity from 0,00 on 9 March 2015 and the regime for ECO EAD was repealed as from 13 March 2015. I use the case to specify that this is not the introduction of a current regime, but a restrictive regime for certain settlements affected directly by the natural disaster. The Ministry of Energy has taken the necessary steps to address the critical situation in the country. As I have already mentioned, ECO and EVN teams are still working at the moment. I would also like to point out that we have worked extremely well and in full coordination with all state institutions, as with colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, with local authorities, with regional governors, with colleagues from the Ministry of Interior. We worked as a team, and I think the situation was really under control. However, we must also note that it is indeed a natural disaster that, like people living in these places, says that in the last 30 years there has not been so much snow in this area. I think the state was in its place, we took control of the situation, we reacted as quickly as possible, and what was needed was actually done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u214	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Vladimirov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that in 2015 Bulgaria could not cope with natural disasters, neither in 2014 with floods, nor in March 2015 with the surprise of all government officials snow. What I heard as an answer is absurd, with an apology, of course. There can be no responsible persons from state institutions, in the ESO, in the Ministry of Energy, who have not been prepared for such a reaction, and prevent everything that we have described, and you in our expositions. A separate issue is that the electricity distribution companies themselves must bear some responsibility. There must be sanctions that they have not done preventive work on the power grid. From the Ministry of Energy, from the energy system operator, from all other responsible institutions, that for days people stood without electricity, without mobile communications, without contact with the outside world. Answer someone will take responsibility at last in this country or will some resign themselves, or will the state finally react adequately and ask and fire the responsible employees, and will sanction the ERPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u216	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vladimirov, I understand your concern for the situation that has been created, but I think we should not make a time policy. We all saw what it was about. We saw the snowfall we were talking about. You saw that the whole country was there, in place, in the most critical moments of the most critical points. We from the Power System have sent all our teams to be on site in Smolyan and Kardzhali. No one was unprepared and no one was surprised. On the contrary, everyone was there, we were all prepared, but you understand that when nature brings us such surprises, we cannot go against it. Sleeping snow reached 10 feet! People were powerless because, first of all, the snow that fell was extremely heavy and cut electrical lines. Secondly, the trees that fell may have been 50% of the damage due to the fact that there were fallen trees that cut the power lines. ESO teams, respectively EVN, had to remove one damage, go to remove another, and then return to the same place where another tree fell and tore up the already repaired power line. I think we should be honest and honest, say that in this difficult situation the state was in its place and we all managed and controlled the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u218	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question again, to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova, is from the National Representative Krasimir Hristov Yankov on the Bulgarian proposals for funding under the Juncker Policy in the sector........................................................................................................................................................ Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u219	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! The Juncker Investment Plan envisions the creation of a new European Fund for Strategic Investments, which will be guaranteed by public funds and will try to mobilise at least 315 billion. EUR additional investments between 2015 and 2017 In addition, the initiative aims at drawing up a list of executable projects, combined with a Programme for directing funds in the areas where they are most needed. The European Commission has published the full list of 28 Member States' proposals for Jean-Claude Juncker's Investment Plan. The Bulgarian proposals in the sector Madam Minister, how did you determine the proposals for funding under the Juncker Plan and how much are they worth? We have a statement from BIA a few days ago that Bulgaria applied with a small number and as a total volume for funding projects from the Juncker Plan, that is, we could have proposed more projects, including BIA engaged in dialogue with the government to propose such projects. We have a statement from the President of the Republic that in fact in Bulgaria will be the first meeting to clarify the Juncker Plan and we expect this project as investment intentions by the European Union to help the economies of individual countries. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Iankov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, thank you for the current question. It's really very relevant and very important. I only recall that the first list of the Juncker Plan was published by the European Commission in December 2014. In view of the opportunity that the European Commission provided to submit new proposals, the Ministry of Energy proposed in January this year to add six gas projects to the list to Bulgaria's top priority: the gas interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria, the underground gas storage Chiren, its expansion, rehabilitation and modernization of the National Energy System, the interconnection of Bulgaria, Turkey, the construction of a second gas storage facility, the gas interconnection between Bulgaria and Serbia. We added two electricity projects to the updated list. The first is the expansion of Pavetsa with Yadenitsa Dam and the modernisation and rehabilitation of substations from the country's electricity supply system. A large part of the projects listed in the list, in addition to being recognised by the European Commission as projects of common European interest, are also extremely important for the sustainable future development of the energy sector in Bulgaria. One of the main priorities, as you know, which the Bulgarian government is setting is to ensure the security of gas supplies for Bulgaria, in the region of Southeast Europe and the European Union, and this will be done through diversification of sources and routes. In future, in the successful implementation of projects to expand the capacity of the gas storage facility in Chiren, the construction of gas interconnectors with Greece and Turkey, the launch of the southern gas corridor and a new liquefied natural gas terminal on the northern Greek Aegean coast, the situation and prospects in front of Bulgaria will be significantly better. Interconnectors with Serbia and Romania will also enable our country to access large gas storage facilities and alternative natural gas sources and routes from Central and Western Europe. What funds will be needed and for what value these projects are, from the analyses we have done, I can therefore inform you that the necessary investments for the construction of the six gas projects amount to approximately 764 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Euros. The total value for the construction of all the projects that we have proposed to be included in the Juncker Plan is approximately 1 billion. Four hundred and ten million. Euros. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u221	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for your specifics. Since Mr Jean Claude Juncker announced that every euro invested in the European budget will attract an additional 15 euros, we expect, within the framework of this plan, as a timetable and time by 2017, of course, it also depends on those who submitted the projects, i.e. the executive power, within the competence and by protecting the submitted projects, including in the part of Jean Claude Juncker's intentions to attract an additional 15 euros. The Commission, which will examine the future financing of projects, in particular in the sector of........................ which you are responsible for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If they are not approved, then wait for my next question: why and for what reason have you not complied with the intentions of Jean Claude Juncker? If they are approved, I will welcome you, because this will mean that this 1 billion. 400 million. EUR only in the sector...... will be multiplied by 15 with investments which are extremely necessary to overcome a number of problems of our society.. poverty, social injustice, the revival of the economy. Isn't that right?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u223	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u224	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yankov, I really thank you very much for the question. It is very important and up-to-date. I think it was good to share exactly what projects in this format are and to make them known both to you and to the whole society and to state what financial resources we are talking about approximately. I very much hope that many of these projects will be approved because this will be of great importance to us. My main argument was that many of these projects were declared to be of general interest. With regard to the interconnector links between Bulgaria and Greece, Bulgaria and Turkey, Romania, Bulgaria and Serbia, I would like to share with you that these projects were included in the 14 priority projects of the European Commission, which will be built over the next period of time. I hope things happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u225	Depends on whether or not you protect them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u226	We're making it possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u227	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for you. We move on to questions to the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova. The first question is from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov on fees for concessions on the beaches. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u228	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dobrich district has one of the largest beach stripes, but the problem remains the concession of the beaches. The high fee the State is asking for is a reason why it is not possible to grant a concession on these beaches. In practice, this leads to a situation where the beaches remain unguarded, without medical stations and contaminated. In my opinion, concession fees should be drastically reduced in order to find companies to manage the beaches so that the latter can become attractive and thus make the area live. The other problem is that in the area of the beaches there are no camping sites built according to the European model with electricity, bathrooms, bathrooms and the like, i.e. every tourist camping where he finds it well. This is how the beaches and the environment are contaminated. There's no control over campers. Madam Minister, what measures do you provide for on the above issues in order to improve tourist services? I just want to tell you that this issue was dictated by a meeting with the mayors of Kavarna, Shabla and Balchik, who said that this was the case. They give money from the municipal budget for unguarded beaches and beaches that are not given on concession. They were looking for an option and a way, and most of all they were interested in whether these beaches could also be dedicated to a concession of the respective municipalities, because, again, they are cleaned by the municipalities themselves in order to be clean and the tourists are satisfied. Please answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u229	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mrs. Angelkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, as Minister of Tourism, undoubtedly the issues concerning the concessionation of sea beaches, respectively the concession fees excite me and are an emphasis of the policy that we will be conducting with regard to the sustainable development of sea tourism and the opportunities for extending its seasonal character. At the moment, however, these issues are beyond my competence by law, and I would not allow myself to interfere with Minister Pavlova's powers by formulating the answer to your first question. There is a general agreement to switch the concession procedures under the hat of the newly-structured Ministry of Tourism, but since 2016, and in the transition period in excellent communication and cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will be studied the experience of countries such as Greece, Croatia and Spain in this direction. As far as camping and my views on the conduct of this type of tourism are concerned, I would point out that the policy pursued so far does not have a clear character and consistency with regard to this segment of the tourist offering. This does not correspond in any way to the apparently increased demand in recent years for this type of rest. That is why we will make efforts to improve the regulatory regulation relating to campsites and services provided by them, in particular the Ordinance on the classification of the means of shelter, accommodation and dining and entertainment establishments. For your information, according to the information provided by the mayors of municipalities in the National Tourist Register, which is held by the Ministry, there are currently 20 categorized campsites on the territory of the country. It is very likely that their number is greater, but information about them, unfortunately, has not entered the Ministry. The mayors of municipalities are obliged by law to provide data in the Ministry for their categorized sites. Currently on the Northern Black Sea coast are operating four campsites and on the South Black Sea coast 14. These are the following: camping camping "Krapets",...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Nikolov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u232	Madam Minister, I would like to tell you that my question is from November at that time the concessions were not within the authority of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as I recall, but it does not matter. I think that you, as Minister of Tourism, should be keenly interested and work on this issue, even though you are not in your competence as the Ministry. I rely very much on your efforts because you know that the upcoming summer season will be very difficult for all who are engaged in tourism for reasons clear to all. Even these changes to the Law on Categorisation, which you may foresee, not only in relation to camping, at all, in respect of tourist sites, should be made not to aggravate business, but rather to facilitate it. I do not know what measures you will take, perhaps another question I will ask you in connection with the upcoming difficult season. Will small tourist companies, restaurants and hotels be compensated in any way? Maybe I'll ask it as an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u233	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Nikolov, the Ministry of Tourism has existed since 7 November 2014, and concessions, in my memories, have always been in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. We are predicting, as I explained, that since 2016, they will switch to the Ministry of Tourism. Of course, the Ministry of Tourism follows and is interested in everything that is happening in this area so that we offer a quality, sustainable tourism product and Bulgaria to be identifiable, identified as a year-round tourist destination. I can assure you that we are taking all necessary measures in this direction. And with regard to the measures for the summer season, I will inform you further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u235	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Slavi Penchev Binev about the destruction of natural and historical resources and objects for tourism. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, we must answer a purely strategic question, it is a doctrine: will we develop tourism in Bulgaria, or will we eliminate the natural resources that should be exploited precisely by the Ministry of Tourism? The disposal of a waste depot on a land site where there are extremely valuable healing mineral water, over 72 mineral springs with 101 liters per second flow; hundreds of acres above 60-year-old pine forest, 60-year-old trees, whose cutting has already begun; hundreds of acres of fertile arable land; uniquely clean air in the embrace of three mountains of Pirin, Rila and Rhodope. It has already been said that any euro in tourism could bring seven, or at least that is the statistics. And it turns out that it is in the Slot area that a landfill should be made to store waste, and it is on this extremely fertile and rich land. What kind of organic farming can one of the European Union's priorities in the 2014-2020 programming period develop in the area of such a landfill? Farm crops are planted on this fertile land, vital to the survival of the population. There are many purely professional, proven solutions, including professor. Sherev is a leading researcher of hydrogeothermal and balneological resources in the Razlog region. The project for regional depot in the village of Banya is in a strong discrepancy and absolute incompatibility with the resort and tourist future of the region. My question, Mrs. Angelkova, is: what are you going to do to protect tourism in this region? The sector I think should really be a priority of the state, but I do not see any real action in this direction. How will you assist the sector in this case and prevent the damage described to the tourist sector? What we talked to the Deputy Prime Minister about was that everything was followed by law. In this case, it is a criticism of ourselves that we allow there to be such laws that practically work against our strategic development as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u237	Mr. Binev, thank you. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, on the occasion of the exhibition in your question and the comments on the possible consequences in the tourism sector I would like to say that I have the assurance of the competent authorities and institutions that regarding the construction of this depot, which serves the needs of four municipalities, all regulatory requirements and environmental standards are met, which will not allow the realization of the alleged consequences. In chronological order, I bring to you the information I have received on this matter. Within the framework of the evaluation of the project proposal for the construction of the Regional Waste Management System, there are no violations in respect of the required procedure under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act and art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act, the mandatory environmental impact assessment for the investment proposal The evaluation report on EIA is agreed with RIOKOZ "Bozgoevgrad," Ministry of Health, Regional Museum of History, Regional Road Management, Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Food, Swimming Directorate The requirement to hold a public consultation held on 14 September 2009 in the town of Razlog after documented agreement of the mayor of the village of Banya and public access of the population to the EIA report, in which all the affected properties are examined. EIA Decision No BS-30812/2009 was issued to the Director of the RIEW... Blagoevgrad, which approved the implementation of the investment proposal. In the subsequent procedure for assessing the need to carry out EIA in the Ministry of Environment and Water, which is the authority with powers in relation to cases of this nature for an investment proposal, a change in the investment proposal for the construction of a Regional landfill for non-hazardous waste, Razlog, and the pre-treatment of waste in the area of Krivoser. In the area of the village of Banya, Razlog Municipality, as provided by Decision No 25-PR of 17 April 2012 assessing the need to carry out an EIA of the Minister of Environment and Waters, with a character not to carry out an EIA. The two decisions were appealed, with a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court at the last instance dismissed the appeals of the applicants. In the implementation of the project are provided all activities for protection of the environment. The underground and surface waters, underground and soils in natural habitats and archaeological sites according to the Bulgarian and European legislation, for which the municipality has the relevant documents. The construction of a regional depot started with a outline of the boundary of the construction site, marking and clearly visible markings. The preparation works for cleaning of the construction site have also been launched, expressed in removing the available wood and shrub vegetation. In checking the RIEW, Blagoevgrad, carried out on 18 February 2015, found that there was no logging of wood in the adjoining sites of the construction site. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u239	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Binev, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! That is exactly what the problem is, indeed, everything has been respected by law. I'm sure that if we look at it, it will turn out that there is nothing to ask this question. That's where the biggest problem comes from. As a MEP, together with residents of the village of Banya we were in the Environmental Ministry and told them that where they wanted to do it, there is a forest. They say, "There is no forest." I'm pointing out to them: here you go. They: Here, there is no forest here on the documents. We: "There are pictures and we show them. They: Yes, we see that there is a forest in your photos, but we do not have a forest in documents that solves the issue. That's the big problem, actually. I really want an answer from the heart. Imagine this situation. This is one of the divine places we have in Bulgaria, although there are many, but that does not mean that we have to destroy them. By the way, as a resort and healing properties this area is much better than Sudetes, Carpathians, Alps, Central France and so on. I can't imagine I just want an answer from the heart. Think about it: If something like this happens in Switzerland or in Austria, where water, tourism, resorts are honored, would that even be acceptable?! Here I think it should be seen not by law, but the appropriateness of what is being done at the moment, because this area is doomed to develop in purely tourist terms. It is extremely important for your ministry to pay attention to the laws that are actually working against our own strategy. I don't want to sound like some kind of reproach to you, but I'm trying in every way to give you the ball so that you can protect the priorities of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u241	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Madam Minister, you're entitled to a duvet, not an answer. A hole in the heart, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u242	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Binev! The Ministry of Tourism is firmly behind the sustainable development of tourism and the development of all types of tourism. Specifically, for the construction of this regional depot, there are no violations. We have absolutely all the documents. All public discussions have been passed and the procedure has been followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u243	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for you. Have a good day and have a good job! I think we have time for one more question, since the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev is here. The question to him is from the MP Miho Dimitrov Mihov on control of the ammunition used in joint military exercises and auxiliary fighting devices. Here you go, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u244	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Defence, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! There are no ladies left. [[Laughter and excitement.]] It is a well-known fact that the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria participate in the collective security system under NATO plans and the enhanced defence capacity of the European Union. For this purpose they plan and participate in both independent and multilateral exercises with troops of the Allies. Several dozen of them with foreign participation are held on the territory, in the aquatory and in the airspace and polygons of our country. These are planned this year, and they're in progress. During my meetings with the citizens, and at a meeting with other MPs from the ABB, they raise the question and share the following reasoning about genetically damaged animals and health disorders of the population in the area of Straldzha, Kotel, the polygon region of the New village. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is: with what powers and means and how do the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army control the ammunition used and auxiliary ammunition from the foreign military contingents involved in the joint exercises, and especially in the conduct of independent ones, without the participation of Bulgarian troops?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u245	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u246	Dear Mr. Mihov, let me first of all thank you for your work as Chairman of the Defence Committee, for the assistance I receive on a daily basis, and for our work today. Thank you once again for both you and the entire Commission! In accordance with art. 26, t. 17 of the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Minister of Defence organized the activities of conservation and restoration of the environment in the areas of distribution of military formations and in the places for carrying out exercises and activities related to the defence of the country. In view of the areas you point out in your letter, I will refer my response to the use of a school polygon, a new village, a joint facility, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States on Defence Cooperation, which I will quote a little later. The implementation of part of the Agreement includes the coordination, organization and implementation of pre-planned and agreed joint Bulgarian-American preparations and exercises on the territory of the country involving servicemen from the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States and in some of them servicemen from third countries. Agreements shall be signed for each exercise and training between the Parties, which shall prepare all the parameters of preparation, including military aspects, including ammunition used. These agreements shall also agree on the obligations of the Parties to this Agreement and on the environment. Bulgaria, as a host country, provides the participating countries with information on the environmental rules that will be applied in carrying out the exercise. Where a specific exercise provides for the use of foreign ammunition, the participating parties shall provide details of the ammunition to be transported and used on our territory in customs declarations in a standard form used in NATO countries. In all the customs checks that we have done so far, no changes and changes have been identified in the pre-established order. Twice a year on the territory of the joint facilities joint teams of the Bulgarian Army and the US forces make an initial assessment of the state of the environment of all agreed facilities and sites. These studies shall be considered as documenting the welded position. After completion of the rotations, monitoring shall be carried out again by sampling which shall be analysed in special laboratories. The results of these tests shall be notified in due time to the competent Bulgarian authorities. In relation to the above, we are adamant that the shootings carried out during joint exercises and trainings of the school range.New village................................ and the ammunition and auxiliary fighting equipment used in them have no connection with the statements about genetically damaged animals and health disorders of those living in this area. The same principles of environmental control and protection are also respected when negotiating joint exercises with other NATO member states and other partner countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u247	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mihov, come in, you have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u248	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the House! I am fully satisfied with the last part, Mr. Minister, where you guarantee that citizens' opinions and our constituents are incorrect for such genetic damage. My recommendation is not only with customs declarations, but also systematically in the course of the exercises to make sudden checks on the ammunition and auxiliary combat vehicles used. Even at the moment when hundreds of soldiers are on the polygon and changes are taking place in the preliminary planning, namely that the tanks did not come, but were replaced by another technique, all this suggests that there may be a change in the forces and means used. Once again, thank you and I strongly support the idea of identifying exercises and interoperability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u249	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Secretary? You don't want a doppelganger. We've got 30 seconds left to work. I'll allow myself one more question. The next question is from the MP Petar Slavov. He will stay for the next time. Therefore, the question, which will be asked again to the Minister of Defence Mr. Nanchev, is by the National Representative Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov concerning the free provision of property No 65334.301.9524. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u250	Thank you, Mr President, for both the word and the proper conduct of another session of parliament. Dear Minister, about a month ago I asked you about the status of former military units in Blagoevgrad. In your reply you have also provided me with detailed information about the legal and factual situation of all military units in Blagoevgrad region. It is clear from your reply that a small part of them are public government property which are actually used as intended today. Another part has been granted free of charge to the relevant municipalities at their request, a third part has already been sold, and in one part of them a possible sale procedure is yet to come. In the municipality of Sandanski at present the Ministry of Defence has several properties. Two of them have a long-term use of a firing range, and they are really public government property and are used for their respective purpose. Two other properties located in the urbanised territory of the municipality of Sandanski were sold in 2012 through relevant tender procedures. There is another military property next to them. The former barracks. In fact, the previous two properties are also part of the former barracks. The property in the town of Sandanski has an act of private government ownership and is included in a timetable for sale this year. In view of the investment intentions of the municipality of Sandanski, it has repeatedly made requests for free provision of these properties. In this regard, my specific question to you is: is there an open procedure for the sale of private state property No 65334.301.9524 in the locality of the Fork and the town of Sandanski? If such a sale procedure has not been opened, what are the possibilities according to art. 54 of the State Property Act, if I am not mistaken, do you, as a minister, express your willingness and willingness to assist in the opening of a procedure for the free provision of this property for the needs of the municipality of Sandanski? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u251	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, in response to your letter and to questions raised by the MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Atanas Stoyanov regarding the free provision of property No 65334.301.9524 in the town of Sandanski, the locality of the Holiday, Blagoevgrad district, I present the following information. A specific procedure for the sale of property has been opened, which I already mentioned in the locality of the town of Sandanski. Every year, the Ministry of Defence prepares a timetable for a disposal of properties which are of a devoid necessity for the office. The sale of these properties is carried out by auction under the State Property Act. So far, no specific tender procedure has been opened for the property indicated by you. If no specific sale procedure has been opened, as are the options according to the legal order, and if you wish to make a request by the municipality of Sandanski, we could take concrete steps. Property with identifier 65334.301.9524 city of Sandanski in the locality By decision of the Regional Governor on the basis of art. 17, para. 2 a right of administration may be revoked by the Ministry of Defence due to a lack of necessity. Under art. 54, para. 1 of the State Property Act free of charge transfer of ownership of private state property to a municipality is carried out by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The decision to acquire property from the municipality shall be taken by the relevant municipal council. Request for free transfer under para. 1 shall be made by means of the governor who gives a reasoned opinion under art. 54, para. 2 of the State Property Act. In this case, the Ministry of Defence will continue the preparation of a procedure for the sale of property and identifier 65334.301.9524 in the town of Sandanski, the locality. In unsuccessful tender procedures, the office will review the type of instrumental actions of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u254	Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. The order of Art. 54 of the State Property Act regulates the procedure for free provision of the respective municipalities by the Council of Ministers through the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. But I didn't accidentally ask the question to you because this is a former military unit, the former barracks that are within the regulatory boundaries of the urbanized area of the city of Sandanski. You, as Minister and your office, are the main principal of this property. It's actually a deserted property that's been emptinessing, crumbling, and looting systemically for many years now. Unfortunately, this property has no public utility coefficient. Personally, I see three possibilities. The first option is to use this property as intended military property. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. Obviously, it's impossible for all of us. The second option, as you suggest, is to sell it. The third possibility is possible at the request of the municipality of Sandanski to be presented to the municipality. Once you have made your predecessors rather than you specifically, such specific procedures for the sale of neighbouring properties, which are also part of the former barracks in the city of Sandanski, and these properties were sold in 2012 and 2013, but now we see that two or three years after this sale these properties, which are already privately owned, are also desolate and there is no particular difference between them and public property such as the one mentioned. Therefore, I think that the possible sale of this property is not appropriate. In this regard, I think it is the most logical and optimal solution to open a procedure for free provision of this property for the needs of Sandanski municipality. She has made such demands several times. The municipal council and the mayor of Sandanski municipality have the attitude. Indeed, the procedure is not easy, but I am convinced that this can happen with joint efforts. In this regard, I appeal to you as Minister of Defence "after the Municipal Council has taken the appropriate decision for a grant request, you should express your positive attitude and opinion on the complex solution of this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u255	Thank you. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u256	Mr. Stoyanov, you're right. Here I would like to say that I have the will and will give you full assistance in the acquisition of the property from Sandanski Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-20.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question. I thank my fellow Members who have been in the Chamber for the rest of the working hours. Due to the expiry of parliamentary control time, I am adjourned. The next regular meeting was on 25 March 2015, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
