ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Today we continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF AUDITORS. This is a sequel to yesterday's plenary day. We voted art. 15. He's in. Art. 1 (2) (a) 15 by importer, which becomes art. 16 on the Commission report. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u2	Art. 15 at the importer supposed by the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the title shall be changed to "Requirements for the election of President and Members'; (b) in para. 1: - in the introductory text, the words - in t. 1 the word "stage" is replaced by "experience," and after the words "in the field of" the word "stage" is added and the comma is placed; (c) the words the Vice-Presidents in para. 2 and 3 are replaced by the members of the Board; (d) in para. 3 words on international projects and programmes drop out. 2. Systematic art. Art. 15 to become Art. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: Art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 shall be amended as follows: For the President and Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors, persons who have a higher education with a Master's degree of education and professional experience in audit, financial control, finance or accounting shall be selected for the Chair at least 15 years and not less than 10 years for the Vice-Presidents, of which not less than 5 years in the field of auditing, financial control, finance or accounting. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 16: "Requirements to the President, Vice-Presidents and Members Art. 16. (1) For President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors, persons shall be elected who shall: 1. have higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master and professional experience in the field of auditing, financial control, finance or accounting not less than 15 years; 2. were not an authority of the executive authority under art. 19th para. 2-4 of the Administration Act in the last three years preceding the election; 3. have not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature or have not been deprived in the appropriate order of the right to take up a particular position or to pursue a particular profession. (2) The President, Vice-Presidents and Members may not be associated persons within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. (3) The President and Vice-Presidents may not take any other paid position or carry out any other activity other than on international projects and programmes relating to the activities of the Court of Auditors, scientific, teaching or activity regulated by the Copyright and Related Rights Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u3	The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate? Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Please note para. 3 of the article under consideration enabling the members of the Court of Auditors to carry out another paid activity or to take up another paid position other than their capacity as a member of the Court of Auditors. I recall the debate from yesterday, according to which it became clear that the two members, outside the President and Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors, will be designated by two non-governmental organizations, one branch of an international organisation based in the United States, namely the Institute of Internal Auditors, the other organisation is the Institute of Graduated Accountants. It is clear what people with what classes and exercises what activities they are members of these organizations. It is clear and also visible in the subject of the activities of these organisations that they are engaged in advisory services, intermediate activities, carry out external audits, carry out specific audits, i.e. the nature of their activities is linked to what is under review, control and audits by the Court of Auditors. At the moment when we allow the members of the Court of Auditors to carry out their usual activities, i.e. to consult audited sites, to mediate audited sites, to conduct external audits of the audited sites, then we put at risk the objectivity and independence of the work of the Court of Auditors itself. This will be the first body in the country that is a kind of independent regulator that will enable its members, by definition, to be in conflict of interest because they will be engaged in an activity which is subject to scrutiny by the authority of which they are members. If you further see the powers of the Court of Auditors in which the two Members will participate, this is for example the validation of the Audit Programme, i.e. those two members who are consultants, auditors, intermediaries will determine which sites to be audited. It is natural that they can exclude from the audit activities sites from which they receive payment or include other ones that have not paid them enough. Adding that, with regard to these Articles, it is further evident, there are no requirements for keeping either professional secrecy or for complying with the requirements of the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors, this becomes an extremely dangerous text. That is why I am making, Madam President, a formal proposal: in para. 3 after the words the President and the Vice-Presidents to be added to the members. That is to say, as regards the members of the Court of Auditors, there is a prohibition to carry out another paid activity and to take up another paid position. Otherwise, this is the text that says that these people will work at the Court of Auditors, that they will be there on a fee, that they will spend some of their time in the Court of Auditors, so that they can create opportunities for better pay in their main activities. It's really a crazy text. If anyone can explain to me why a Member of the Court of Auditors will be given the opportunity to operate an activity which is competitive with that of the Court of Auditors, I would agree with you. The second, which we have proposed, I suggest to you that our proposal be voted on separately for the removal of the expression, other than for international projects and programmes relating to the activities of the Court of Auditors, because with the presence of this text, we give the President and Vice-Presidents the opportunity to receive additional remuneration, additional serious money on international projects relating to the activities of the Court of Auditors. This is also an incorrect text which makes the Court of Auditors a source of wealth for both the members and the President and the Vice-Presidents. These are standard texts that exist in all laws governing the activities of independent regulators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As part of the Commission that was involved, and an importer on some of the texts yesterday, I abstained from speaking because I gave it to normal political talk, but today I believe that we are already slightly overreacting. I ask a question: should the Union of Bulgarian Motorists in no way participate in programmes just because it is part of international organizations? Should the Red Cross not participate in any programs in Bulgaria just because its headquarters is in Geneva? Should there be no representatives in the Supreme Judicial Council, in the case of the bar, because they are just different organizations from the Supreme Judicial Council, and the lawyering is part of international organizations and participates in projects? Members who will be broadcast by these two organizations of the internal auditors and of the graduate accountants are members who are professionals in the industry. In many other committees these same two bodies emit members. The bigger problem is that you now believe that when these members enter the Court of Auditors, they should have no opportunity to qualify in the future and participate in projects. The proposal was to engage only in scientific, teaching activities, one relating to copyright, which they previously had as an opportunity and, of course, that as members and part of the collective, the college management body should increase their qualifications. They therefore have the right and the possibility of the Court of Auditors' own international projects to go and train, to receive remuneration. Only in such projects does the ministry make a project and they participate in it, no controlled object makes a project and they participate in it. No, we restrict them only in the Court of Auditors will work; only from there will they receive remuneration, except for scientific and teaching activities. I hope there is no doubt that these people should also be part of the academic community, give minds and minds to others, and they themselves should increase their qualifications. And when there are projects, imagine that the European Court of Auditors made a project for Bulgaria, it turns out that our people will not be able to work, or if they go abroad, they have to pay out of their pocket. I believe that this is wrong and does not apply to any other body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u7	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, thank you for the line, because it makes it clear that you have understood what you will be voting in a moment. That is to say, the Patriotic Front will consciously enable the members of the Court of Auditors to carry out another paid activity, to take up another paid position here is not about teaching and scientific activities which are explicitly excluded, apart from their activities in the Court of Auditors. This means that they, as members of two precisely defined organisations, will be able to carry out audits and, at the same time, participate as members of the Court of Auditors in the voting of audit reports on the same organisations. This is truly unheard of for an independent regulator. The examples you have given are more than inappropriate, because in cases where a permanent body, such as the Supreme Judicial Council, is concerned, it is clear that at the moment that lawyers become members of the Supreme Judicial Council, they cease to perform legal activities, which is more than natural. What you are currently saying here, Mr. Dimitrov, is that, for example, magistrates, judges should be judges of a fee, as the members of the Court of Auditors will be, and that during the rest of the time, during which they do not legalize, there is no problem to be lawyers, to protect different clients, and then to participate in the ruling on these cases. This is an absolute lobbyist proposal, an absolute lobbyist text that will discredit the Bulgarian Court of Auditors to all possible such audit organisations. And in this case, I am asking Mrs. Lydia Rumenova, who is in the Chamber, to answer: has the Court of Auditors participated in international projects and programmes and have the President and Vice-Presidents received remuneration for this? In other words, is the fact that the President will be paid extra huge money an obstacle or an incentive to participate in international programmes and projects? I think that the remuneration that has been assigned to the President of the Court of Auditors is high enough for the President of the National Assembly to receive fees on any international project relating to the activities of the Court of Auditors. This is the case in the other normal organs in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u9	Any other speeches? Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I'll allow myself, with an apology, of course, to remind you that to this article, para. 2 yesterday I made an offer and I'm supporting it right now. If I have to read it one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u11	I have to, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u12	Finally, the sentence of para. 2 to add to the list of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Members: to carry out an activity which is contrary to the same law. It's about the Law of Conflict of Interest. My second proposal relates to a technical flaw for something that we have commented on very much and is related to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1, where the requirements for the Chair and the Members are: "1." have a higher education and qualification degree in the field of auditing, financial control, finance and accounting not less than 15 years. Somehow here we've closed the circle to economists. I think that there are a group of other specialists who are interested in administrative and financial law, which can be quite equally useful as a requirement for service in order to take up this position. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u13	What exactly are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u14	In the title there is a higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master and a professional experience in the field of auditing, administrative and financial law, financial control............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The administrative and financial law is added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u15	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask your attention, as we are a particularly important member of this law and we could make a very significant mistake. I will remind you of yesterday's debate, and today I will give you examples of this - the two members of the Court of Auditors, who are offered by the two professional organisations, should not take another position and be able to work as the President and Vice-Presidents - what Mrs Manolova has done as a proposal. We made arguments yesterday in the debate about this. Today I will try to give you examples. We are very likely to make a large part of the Court of Auditors' acts appealable in the sense of being subject to litigation. Why? We propose that these two organizations broadcast the two members. Right. I said yesterday it was a good idea. But these are professionals who are involved in this particular activity. Imagine that the Institute of Internal Auditors offers one auditor. He audited a bank. The bank is in charge of budget money. Do we have a potential conflict of interest? We do, of course. Secondly, the Institute of Accountants Expert offers an accountant. He audited a trading company. This commercial company applies for a public procurement in a ministry. This ministry shall be audited by the Court of Auditors. I only give two examples. We must not allow the law to corrupt this good idea. The two members shall not engage in any other paid activity. They must meet the requirements for the Chair for both Vice-Presidents. Otherwise, we'll make a big mistake. Think about it. There's nothing political about it. There's no trap or anything. We need to make a perfect law from a point of view that there is no potential conflict of interest. Yesterday the following hypothesis developed with colleagues from GERB. If these two institutes offer exemplary lecturers or other people who do not engage in this activity and if we accept the professor's proposal that they do not carry out an activity which is in conflict of interest related to the activities of the Court of Auditors, then these two institutes will offer no members. Then what is the idea of these two institutes proposing?! So the Institute for Accountants Expert to offer a non-accountant, non-professional, and the Institute of Internal Auditors to propose a non-executor. Well, then what's the idea? All the arguments in order to accept these two institutes to make proposals were related to the fact that their members are professionals in this area. And now all of a sudden, they don't have to offer professionals. Let's think about it. The exit from this situation is that the two members meet the requirements for the Chair and Vice-Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u17	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Veselinoff has the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I will make a very brief statement to make an editorial clarification on the text we have proposed for the vote. It is also a matter for the President and Vice-Presidents to be added to the text on professional experience. After the President's experience, the Vice-Presidents and Members shall not be less than 10 years, of which 5 years in the statement. I recall that, in fact, 10 years is the current requirement for Members of the Court of Auditors. I think it doesn't make sense that it should be promoted and thus obstructed the path of younger specialists to this body. At the same time, we introduce a requirement for a specific internship in particular in the audit, which is missing in the case, as the general record of finances, accounting and so on can lead to the choice of a person who has never dealt with an audit. In this sense, our proposal increases rather than lowers the requirement of qualification. I think it will be useful for the work of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u19	Do you have it in writing? How does the editing sound?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u20	In the report, the proposal is given.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u21	The proposal is described. After the Vice-Presidents to be added to the members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u22	Just because there is a proposal that is not supported by the committee does not mean that it cannot be made now. Give the proposal in writing where exactly is added to the Committee's version because your proposal is made by importer. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. [[National Representative Maya Manolova wants the floor for a reply.]] A line from Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u23	I thought the debate was closed.!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u24	By asking all MPs to respond promptly, not after the debate is closed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u25	I beg your pardon, Madam President. I couldn't react in time. Dear Mr. Veselinov, the change to the requirements of the two members of the Court of Auditors is becoming more and more like a setup of the law for specific persons. It makes no sense that these two members, who will be designated by professional organisations and are supposed to be engaged in internal and external audits, have a professional experience in audit work within only 5 calendar years. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Given that we are currently voting on the text with which we will make two people the richest people in the country, because for them there will only be the possibility of receiving money for basic activity and then a fee because they will control this activity, I suggest at least we do not lower their requirements, because the work will become absolutely rigged. Once again, I pay attention to all Members of the National Assembly if we do not make changes to para. 3 in the sense in which I proposed, in the sense in which Mr. Tsonev supported me, this means that we will turn the Court of Auditors into a printing house for money for two people who will be able to safely audit any objects, then decide on the audit of these sites. Guess what the interest will be in their involvement in banks, in commercial companies and as external experts and consultants for any state bodies that are audited by the Court of Auditors. This is a text for the future two millionaires in Bulgaria who will be produced with this vote of the Bulgarian Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u26	Bravo, Mother!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u27	Second line? A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u28	I don't know if this passion and pain in Mrs. Manolova's voice is because she thinks that these people, these millionaires, they won't be from BSP. I believe that no one in this National Assembly has the task of producing millionaires. Regarding your particular line, because you replicated my speech on one occasion for the five years in the audit area, we want you to have a specific internship in the audit, because the common text now does not require this thing. You can just be an accountant for a single trader for 10-15 years and apply for the Court of Auditors. That's why I'm saying it. That is, we are introducing an additional requirement specifically for the audit, not abstract for financial activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u29	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed and we are going to vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Cornelia Ninova and others from BSP left Bulgaria, which the Commission does not support. They voted 145 MPs: 27, against 86, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Iskren Veselinov, Milen Mikov and Christian Mitev for a change in the internship of the years which are wanted as an experience protected in the speech of Mr. Veselinov. You've protected him well enough, Mr. Simeonov. This proposal is not supported by the committee. They voted 146 MPs: 19 against 32, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the editorial proposals made in the Chamber on a proposal from the Commission for editing of art. 16. According to the order of the paragraphs and points, there is a proposal made in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1 by Prof. Borisov, who proposes after requiring candidates to have higher education with a degree of education and qualification, Master and professional experience in the field, described in the Commission's proposal, to add the administrative and financial law in the field of auditing, administrative and financial law, financial control, finance or accounting not less than fifteen years. We vote on Mr. Borisov's proposal. Vote 147 MPs: 135 against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We're following the lyrics. In para. 2 There is a proposal for an addition by Mr. Borisov, who offers the editing of para. 2 to do so: the Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Members may not be associated persons within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. We vote on the proposed addition by Mr. Borisov. They voted 146 MPs: 141, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. In para. 3 has two proposals from Mrs. Manolova. The first is: the President and Vice-Presidents to become the President, Vice-Presidents and Members cannot be added to the two members of the Court of Auditors. Voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 54, against 66, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u30	My fellow Members, as many votes have been arranged, there is a risk that one of my fellow Members may not have understood which text he voted on, so I am making it clear that this is the text which will prohibit Members of the Court of Auditors from auditing, carrying out advisory services, mediating sites that have been examined by the Court of Auditors. So it is important to see each of you vote. I say very frankly that I will then use it in analyzing what the quadruple coalition in parliament has managed to do. Everyone's vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u31	That sounded like a threat, Mrs. Manolova. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u32	No, I'm just being correct enough. Everyone's vote will show whether it will enable the state's higher audit body to participate and to pronounce people who, by definition, are in conflict of interest because they carry out consultancy and other activities of sites which are audited by the same Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u33	It's a re-vote. Vote 150 MPs: 63, against 66, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova wants a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u34	My fellow Members, I am taking a negative vote to facilitate Mrs. Manolova when she then uses how who voted. I voted against her proposal because I believe she is manipulating the entire House, she will probably try to do it to the media as she has just announced. There is no conflict of interest in definitions, honourable Members. There is a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and we in para. 2 we have made sufficient guarantees. Even more so with what Mr. Professor. Borisov proposed and we accepted, we have given enough assurance that these people will not carry out any activity that would be in conflict of interest. Moreover, in the subsequent article. 19 we, ladies and gentlemen,... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u35	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u36	...we can eliminate those members who find themselves in this conflict of interest. That is to say, they are engaged in an activity which is contrary to the Law on Conflict of Interest. Here I'd like to ask Mrs. Manolova: if an auditor...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u37	There is no such procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova. With the questions at first reading. At second reading, no questions asked to anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u38	I have no question for Mrs. Manolova. I am thinking out loud: if an auditor is holding a bank, you all know that the Court of Auditors does not check banks. Where's the conflict of interest? If an internal auditor audits a private international company that you all know the Court of Auditors does not check, where is the conflict of interest? And where is the conflict of interest here in this room where we all have the right to be lawyers, for example? Is there a conflict of interest here? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] And we pass the laws, including the justice system. [[National Representative Maya Manolova wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u39	No, you can't explain it personally because it's a negative vote. That's enough. We've heard all about it. We'll hear the other one through the media. [[Applause from GERB.]] We shall continue by voting on the editorial proposals made in this House. Mrs. Manolova proposed in para. 3 texts.. by international projects and programmes....................................................................................................... Is it true, Mrs. Manolova, to drop the text by international projects and programs. 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u40	What's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u41	The editor shall take the following form:...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u42	The Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the work of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u43	It's got to fall, and it's gotta fall, and it's gotta fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u44	No, and on the activity of the Court of Auditors (the Court of Auditors) because "International projects and programmes related to the activity of the Court of Auditors (the Court of Auditors)'are international projects and programmes only for the activities of the Court of Auditors (the Court of Auditors).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u45	Mrs. Stoyanova, you had the opportunity to replicate Mrs. Manolova when she made the proposal. There has been a proposal to drop the text: other than in international projects and programmes. It must also be related to the activities of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Manolova, because otherwise it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u46	That's what I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u47	To the end? Drop the text:.. by international projects and programmes related to the activities of the Court of From an argument to the contrary to remain:.. scientific, teaching or activity regulated in the Law on Copyright and Related Rights................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are voting on Mrs. Manolova's proposal from para. 3 drop the text:.. by international projects and programmes related to the activities of the Court of Auditors.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Voting mode! They voted 135 MPs: 25, against 83, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We still have to vote on the full version of art. 16 on the Commission report, together with the name of art. 16, in line with the adopted decisions on Mr. Borisov's proposals. We vote. Vote 134 MPs: 94 against 34, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u48	Madam President, honourable Members, I propose a re-voting because with this text, if I may continue Mrs. Stoyanova's thought, you have just voted that an external auditor be able to receive a serious payment for the audit of an international company participating in public procurement in a Bulgarian ministry loses these public procurements, which is why the external auditor, participating in the Court of Auditors, voted in a certain way in adopting the audit of this ministry. It is the same, being the auditor of a company that participates in public procurement, announced by a municipality, the municipality that has not satisfied the interests of the company that audited the member of the Court of Auditors, woe to it! The Ministry in question is woeful to him! That is, we are creating conditions for two people in the state to really have a decisive voice in the decision on audits of both ministries and municipalities and other public organizations, against which these two people will receive fat fees. That's what we wrote in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Revoting! Vote 119 MPs: 79 against 35, abstention 5. The text of art. 16 in the version of the Commission has been adopted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u50	Mr President, honourable Members, I voted against this important article. 16, put together a hell of a hock, I think it was a proposal by order of art. 80, to a large extent became a controversial text. On the one hand, two members of the College of the Court of Auditors will be offered by two professional NGOs. On the other hand, they will not be able to deal with what is their professional competence outside their work. From a third party, however, the same will be able to work another way. What's the other one? We don't know. It must not be of the sphere of conflict of interest, that is, of the activity they are engaged in in in the Court of Auditors. That is, they will definitely not be able to do either audit or accounting. I don't know if you didn't understand exactly what we did. We have depreciated the good idea first, with the accepted proposal of Prof. Borisov professionals from two professional guilds to be offered and, secondly, we let these people be able to work, but something other than the sphere of their competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Come in for a second negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted negatively in the sense of what I said yesterday. Yesterday you instead of placing the Court of Auditors' imperative to audit enterprises where the state has more than 1 million. BGN, you left this question to the Court of Auditors, as appropriate, to decide whether or not to do so. Yesterday, I accused you of opening the door to corruption deals. Here a colleague of yours from GERB stood up and accused me of not speaking in substance. Today, with what you have done, you have confirmed the impression in the Bulgarian society that corruption practices are really starting to become a law. The first thing that can be achieved as a danger is that those Members who have just been given the opportunity to work anywhere else, except in the Court of Auditors, where they will receive only a fee, will have a vote and will be subject to the adoption of the Court of Auditors' work plans, whether or not one or other bodies will be audited. That is why I ask you to be a little more national responsible and a little more dependent on corrupt practices and external influences. As they say, don't let the backroom be among you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. There is no other negative vote. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for art. 16 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u54	Under art. 16 by importer there is a proposal of Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly. Menda Stoyanova, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 17: "Selection of President, Vice-Presidents and Members Art. 17. (1) The National Assembly shall elect a President of the Court of Auditors three months before the expiry of the term of office of the President-in-Office. (2) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term of office of the Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors, the President shall propose to the National Assembly a new election. (3) Within 14 days of the expiry of the term of office of the members of the Court of Auditors, the Institute of Accountants, respectively the Institute of Internal Auditors, shall propose to the President of the Court of Auditors for the election of a new member. Within three days of receipt of the proposal, the President shall submit it to the National Assembly. (4) The President, Vice-Presidents and Members shall be elected following a public procedure. (5) The chosen one by para. 1 President of the Court of Auditors shall take office on the day of the expiry of the term of office of the person in whose place he is elected. (6) Those chosen by para. 2 and 3 persons take office from the day of their election.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u56	Mr. Chairman, I am very sorry, I should read Rumen Gechev's unsupported proposal. "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the title shall be changed to the election of the President and Members; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The President shall, within 14 days of his election, make a proposal to the National Assembly for members of the Court of Auditors. (c) in para. 3 the words "and vice-presidents are selected" shall be replaced by "selected" and, at the end of the text, after the word "procedure" shall be placed comma and shall be added after which within the term under para. 2 publicly nominates and argues the proposals for members. (d) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The President and Members elected shall take office on the day of their election. (e) paragraph 5 shall be deleted; (f) The creation of para. 5 and 6: The President and the members of the Court of Auditors shall continue to exercise their powers until their successors take office. (6) Within 14 days of taking up their duties, the President and the members of the Court of Auditors shall act to exempt from the execution of another paid position and to terminate another paid activity. 2. Systematic art. Art. 16 to become Art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mrs. Manolova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is one of the texts in the law that are on the edge and beyond the Constitution and should be attacked before the Constitutional Court. Why? Because according to the text of the Constitution, the National Assembly elects the Court of Auditors. What is happening, according to this text, with regard to the two most interesting people in the Court of Auditors - its members, who will be proposed by two engios? The procedure is set out in para. 3 The two NGOs propose to the President of the Court of Auditors, he proposes within 3 days to Parliament and Parliament votes. That is to say, Parliament does not elect members of the Court of Auditors, Parliament approves it proposed by two non-governmental organisations through the President. I leave aside the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors thus becomes an ordinary postman. I even suggest the text that it makes the proposal to Parliament to drop out, because in practice it has no power, even if the two members do not meet the requirements, refuse to submit them and present them to Parliament. He is becoming a postman who brings the two proposals from the two NGOs to parliament and parliament what he can do is vote on these two proposals or not. And here my question is the Reformation Block. I see Mr. Kanev showed up, and other lawyers are here. You have stood for the parliament to act publicly, transparently, to have a competition, to have competition between the members of the bodies we choose. Where is the publicity and competitiveness in this procedure? There are two proposals that Parliament can do the most not to vote on them. But there is no obstacle to the two engios proposing again the same members, then proposing them again, so that most of all, we block the activities of the Court of Auditors. I don't see what else we can do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u59	You!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u60	Where's the public start? Where's the transparency, where's the competition between the applications? Where is the choice, where is the real assessment of one's qualities against another's qualities? That the whole thing is rigged is clear with the construction of these texts. But I think this is where you pass even that limit of decency, in which to give at least the parliament to fulfill its powers given by the Bulgarian Constitution. You're way out of line with those lyrics! You're out of line! You are making fun of the President of the Court of Auditors, making him a courier, a carrier pigeon and, secondly, turning the National Assembly into pawns because the MPs will be obliged to support or not support the proposal of two NGOs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u61	The chairman could be a pigeon, that's all I can add. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Martin Dimitrov, then Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It all started with yesterday's argument of colleagues on the left that, notice, once the headquarters of one professional organization is in the United States, these people are dependent on this country. I would compare this only with the following possible situation: because the European Commission's headquarters is in Brussels, Belgium rules the European Union. This was the beginning of all the logic that colleagues on the left developed from yesterday. Today this logic has reached new heights. It doesn't matter that professional organizations will offer these candidates. Parliament may not approve of them. If they do not meet the requirements, if they do not respond convincingly to all the questions that, colleagues, we will all ask them if, in the entire hearing procedure that will be conducted.. so decides this Parliament at the beginning of its term and the record in its Rules that there will be a hearing procedure for each such candidate, and if a candidate does not submit himself convincingly, he will simply not be elected. There will be another, next candidate. Colleagues, this is about the following stubbornness to the left. The BSP colleagues do not wish to have a civic professional participation in the management of the Court of Auditors. So many years have become political appointments that breaking the model and reform is categorically not accepted by colleagues on the left. They pulled out of ten wells of water why they would not accept a civic professional participation in the management of the Court of Auditors, which is a major change. To these professionals we even give a blocking quota in terms of making final decisions, as it takes four out of five votes to make these decisions. However, if we want to change Bulgaria, we need to put a stop to these political appointments that have been happening in the control bodies for so many years and start betting on professionals. Otherwise, both the regulatory and control authorities in Bulgaria will not change, will not increase the quality. What is now being proposed is a huge step in the right direction. And all the resistance is not random. There's nothing by chance about this! Notice when BSP, DPS and other parties without hearing offered a number of candidates for whom there was no proof of their impartiality, non-partisanity, principle, professionalism, then there were no problems, nor for a moment there was no problem when BSP and DPS without hearing offered them. However, now that we are giving the opportunity to professional organisations that are involved in the audit, this is their main activity, which are professionals with great experience, to participate as civil and professional control in the Court of Auditors, this has suddenly become a big problem. Well, yes, a big problem is for people who want to continue with the party appointments, who do not want Bulgaria to change. They do not want another type of control body, they do not want professionalism in the work of the Court of Auditors. I am convinced from yesterday and today that, unfortunately, some of our colleagues will never support this change. The rest, however, those who want reforms in Bulgaria, which we want working control bodies, must categorically and without any hesitation, colleagues, vote on these texts! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dimitrov! Let us make the following clarification. From yesterday's debates, both today's and the facts, it is clear that BSP, neither left nor right, nor centrist parties, nor any member country of the European Union, does not include professional organizations and proposals in the management of the crappy palaces. Yesterday she could not answer, in fact the colleague Stoyanova answered and told you that there is no such experience and Bulgaria is unique. The explanation was not to copy as parrots the texts of other countries. So not BSP, but the world practice excludes non-governmental organizations from electing members of supreme government bodies. If you have any other information, say it or manipulate it. No BSP, no one in the European Union has! Secondly, when you said about BSP and the choice, this was about transparency and the collective beginning, the election of the members of the Court of Auditors we in the Budget Committee insisted and held a hearing. They were elected after a hearing. In addition, we strongly object to the fact that almost all those members of the Court of Auditors or other supreme bodies which determine the state are unprofessional and those who define non-governmental organisations are professionals! It's a unique division! There is no such European practice! Furthermore, the collective beginning is not strengthened by the decrease in the number of members of the Court, which you have been defending for several days not only in plenary. I don't know where you were looking when you said there were no 9-members of management.! However, if you open the comparative site of the waste palaces, which are recorded very clearly and take five minutes at least you use English, you will see that there are 17 people in the Czech Republic, a colleague: President, Vice President and 15 members. In the Federal Republic of Germany, which is also not managed by BSP, there are 60 people, colleague! So you have no right to say from now on, I don't know. You already know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u65	Second line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I think the Reformation Block should be ashamed of this text. All your attempts to put the tape back and try to wash your hands with other practices are pathetic, really pathetic! Look what you're offering! What competition, what competition are we talking about when the National Assembly will choose between a candidate?! A candidate is going to compete with himself, what?! Is this transparency, is this racing, is this choosing between the best candidates?! In practice, you are tying the hands of the National Assembly and enabling two NGOs, in fact, it is more accurate to say pro-governmental organisations, because at the time when they appoint members to the highest audit body of the state, they do not act as non-governmental organisations. They are pro-government and you make them so with the texts of this law. Because I ask you: is a person elected on a proposal from the civil society of a high state position still a representative of civil society, or is he fulfilling his state function?! On the other hand, don't you find it a little uncomfortable that you allow these two members for whom there will be a nomination procedure, the two pro-government organizations are not committed to carrying it out. These two people, whom we will literally confirm with Parliament's decision, will be able to work for as long as they want, because in a previous text you gave them the opportunity to pronounce themselves as members of the highest audit body of the Bulgarian state! I am shocked that people from the street who wanted publicity and transparency, competition, competition and clarity who is offered, what criteria will be involved in these texts! Well, it's all set up, it's visible! The bad news is you're in on this deal! And even worse, you're not even ashamed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u67	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u68	Third line? A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u69	Colleagues, in fact, Mrs. Manolova's statement was very helpful. A number of things became clear from him. BSP opposes any civil participation in control and regulatory bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u70	This isn't control!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u71	Against any civil control in practice this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u72	This isn't control!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u73	What was the easiest solution for the current ruling majority? The easiest thing was to do like BSP and DPS to say that now we will offer them. Last time you offered them, this time we'll offer them. This would be the easiest, most selfish decision and it would be just as wrong as when BSP and DPS did it completely!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u74	He has a mandate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u75	However, we do the opposite because Bulgaria suffers from one disease and it is the party nominations and appointments. Realizing that Bulgaria suffers from this disease and its manifestations, unfortunately, they go too far to reduce investment, lose jobs and hundreds of related problems, we understand that this is not possible. That's why we're saying this: it can't go back to the way it was. We need a new way. Let the professional organizations offer. This is where Mr. Gechev deceived the National Assembly. He said that they chose them. No, they're just gonna propose. If during the hearing it is found that one of these candidates does not meet the conditions professionally, it does not seem reliable enough, I am convinced that he will not receive the support of the National Assembly. Everyone will be able to ask a question. You, Mrs. Manolova, you, Mr. Gechev, every member of the National Assembly, every MP. But what do you say? Mrs. Manolova briefly said the following: the parties must, as has always been, propose the management of the control bodies and this time be the same. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u76	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u77	That's what Mrs. Manolova says after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u78	You made your line, but you didn't shut up during his backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u79	As it has always been, as always the parties have offered them, and this time so to offer them. However, the results of these constant party proposals are not good, colleagues! I call on you, I do not know whether to call you, but I call on those people who want a change in the regulatory and control bodies in Bulgaria who want real reforms to support these texts because there is a need for a professional start in the management of the Court of Auditors. To tell you the truth, if I have to choose between whether professional organisations should propose members of the Court or political parties to do so, it is much better in the management of the Court of Auditors to have representatives of professional organisations. It's a whole new model, a whole new solution, which is a good one. As for individual responsibility and transparency, here, unfortunately, Mr. Gechev did not understand. He has not understood that there is currently no way to check the Court of Auditors' management on key issues of who voted how. No one can know how they voted. There's total collective irresponsibility. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We are already making sure that every decision can be checked, the protocol is public, it is on the Internet, it is clear how who voted, what position has taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u80	The weather, Mr. Dimitrov. I gave you a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u81	This is the big change that, unfortunately, Mr. Gechev didn't see and didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u82	Thank you. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov. After him Mr. Tsonev, after him Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u83	I want the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u84	You made a line. In the back, of course, I'll address the person he replicated. There's no reason for a personal explanation. You can make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u85	Thank you, Madam President. I had no intention of speaking, but apparently, colleagues, you do not understand what the role of professional organisations is. [[Radio and lines from BSP LB.]] And you can't understand it for the simple reason that none of you have ever been involved in such a professional organization. From this point of view, if we were listening to you, we should have crossed out half the Accounting Act, because the Accounting Act is largely a proposal of the Union of Accountants in Bulgaria. We should have deleted members of the Higher Education Act, as they are also proposals from the Union of Accountants in Bulgaria. Only today, colleagues, you passed the line on making millionaires. And, Mrs. Manolova, you should explain this structure, this scheme of making millionaires from state institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u86	Mention it by name and it will explain it to you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u87	Since you know how to make millionaires, I'd ask you why you didn't report the prosecution? In addition, it has become clear that someone is difficult to distinguish the proposal from action voting on the relevant proposal. It's hard for you to tell him apart. Of course someone has to make the proposal, and there's nothing better than bringing in professional organizations, because they know people best. I'll give you a very simple, simple example. Two applications may be chief accountant, only one application may be chief accountant of an enterprise with a broad activity of more than 4 thousand. staff members, and the other application may be the chief accountant of a sole trader with two employees and activities in the field of small trade. Is this proposal the same thing? Of course it's not the same thing. But professional organizations here with their experience, knowing the relevant personnel in the relevant sector, can be the most useful and offer the most prepared application. I don't accept your claim that someone had to become a carrier pigeon. If you so want to be the carrier pigeon, it is your right to a personal choice. But for me, it is the right decision to give professional organisations the opportunity to finally participate in the selection of members of this auditing and so important body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u88	- What's the line? There are no lines. There's a personal explanation for Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u89	Honourable Members, Madam President! I think everyone understood the text that will produce the two very rich Bulgarians, possible millionaires.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u90	In the form of a personal explanation of what you are affected by.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u91	Well, yeah, he asked me. I am affected because he said that I claim that millionaires will be produced and how they are produced, why I didn't give them to the prosecution. And I'm explaining to him that, in fact, the text that's going to produce millionaires has already been voted, including the Patriotic Front. This is the text of para. 3 of the former article, which enabled the members of the Court of Auditors to carry out another activity..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think things are clear here and no further explanation is necessary. Why am I saying that there is no civil control here and there is a complete abuse of civil society? This is because professional organizations are not allowed to offer. It is given the opportunity to precisely two organisations to propose exactly two members of the Court of Auditors. I am in favour of and have shown it in my work in the previous parliament, including the election of the members of the CEC that there should be proposals of NGOs, but of all those in the relevant area; that there should be more proposals to have competition. Now you are enabling exactly two organisations with precisely defined requirements of exactly two members. I'm sorry, you're abusing civil society right now. You're using it because it's obviously a little embarrassing for you to offer these two future millionaires, and it's easier to give this opportunity to exactly two organizations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u92	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the debate that is currently under way is about the same debate that was in the previous articles. It has already been decided by voting in this House what will be the composition of the Court of Auditors' management, who will appoint whom and so on. Therefore, the proposal that has been made, which is debated by fellow Members on the left, is finally proposed to return, systematically art. Art. 16 to become Art. 14 and start all over again. So I think that now that this debate has ended, as I said, because it has been led along the previous articles, I suggest that we now end the debate and not waste any more time because it has already been implemented and there is nothing more to say than to reheat the old ones of them which we have all found to be untenable anyway. Thank you. I suggest we call off the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u94	A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u95	I was the one who asked for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u96	Mr. Tsonev, it makes sense to end the debate when there are further statements from MPs. If there are no speeches, it is not necessary. You have a counterproposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u97	Madam President, I am making a reverse proposal not to end the debate and to give me the opportunity to speak because Mr. Ivanov is wrong that we will not hear anything new.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u98	So far, we haven't heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u99	My speech will be on a hypothesis that allows this text to block the work of the Court of Auditors. I'm asking you to give me this opportunity. It'll be good for the law. You'll see.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u100	There has been a procedural proposal to end the debates under art. 17 by Commission numbering. You heard Mr. Tsonev's opposite opinion. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 79, against 26, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Debates terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u101	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u102	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u103	Dear Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal for an editorial amendment in the text of art. 16 which becomes Art. 17. It relates to the following hypothesis. Here we have heard debates that the two institutions are making proposals. The National Assembly is debating and may reject, may not choose. I ask the lawyers: if the National Assembly does not approve this proposal for a member or for both members and the Institute or both institutions refuse to make a new proposal, do we have a hypothesis in which the work of the Court of Auditors is blocked? We do because it is not written that they are obliged to offer a second time if the National Assembly does not approve!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u104	What do you suggest, Mr. Tsonev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u105	I suggest we write down that they are obliged if the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u106	Where? Which member? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u107	In para. 3 in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u108	What's supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u109	We need to add a new sentence in which to say: Within 3 days of receipt of the proposal, the President shall submit it to the National Assembly. If a member or members proposed by the two institutions are not elected by the National Assembly, the two institutions shall, within 7 days, make other proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u110	Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Gechev, Nino, Kanev, Georgiev, Popov, Manolova, Gorov, Tarnovalyski and Merdjanov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 115 MPs: 25, against 74, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Tsonev's proposal for an addition to the editorial work of art. 17, para. 3 as it is on his proposal "This supplement of Mr. Tsonev, made in the Chamber. Vote 119 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am pleased to inform you that on the balcony are MEPs, members of the European Parliament from Bulgaria, together with the Bulgarian winners of the Civil Prize of the European Parliament for 2014. These are the volunteers from the Social Training Professional Center "Dr. Anastasia Zhezkova "Varna," and the journalist Hristo Hristov. [[The national representatives rise up and with long applause welcome the guests of the balcony.]] We already congratulate them with the prestigious award, welcome them to the Bulgarian Parliament! And I announce to all of you that a little later today, around 11.00, at the Club of the National Representative will be held the ceremony of the official awards of the European Parliament. Moving on, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u111	Under art. 17 at the importer proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17, which becomes art. 18: "Sluts" Art. 18. The President, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors shall take the following oath before the National Assembly: I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the performance of the functions entrusted to the Court of Auditors by guiding myself by the principles of independence, objectivity and good faith in the performance of the duties entrusted to me by law. I swore.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u112	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u113	There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. We shall vote on the wording of art. 17, which becomes art. 18, in the version of the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 86, none, abstention 13. Article 17, which becomes art. 18 has been adopted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u114	Under art. 18 on the importer proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 19: "Preliminary termination of authority" Art. 19. (1) The mandate of the President, the Vice-Presidents and the members of the Court of Auditors shall be terminated by the National Assembly before their term of office expires: 1. at their written request; 2. if they are unable to fulfil their duties for more than 6 months; 3. in case of incompatibility under art. 16; 4. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; Five in the event of death. (2) Upon termination of the mandate, the President of the National Assembly shall appoint a Vice-President to exercise his powers until the election of a new President. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. The President shall make a reasoned proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Vice-President or Member. (4) Upon termination of the powers of Vice-President, the Chair shall, within one month, propose to the National Assembly to elect a new Vice-President. (5) Upon termination of the powers of a member of the Court of Auditors, the Institute of Graduated Accountants, respectively the Institute of Internal Auditors shall, within one month, propose the selection of a new member. (6) The President-elect, Vice-President or member shall complete the term of office of the person in whose place he is elected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Let's go back and read the unsupported proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u116	In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the introductory text, the words "the Vice-Presidents' shall be replaced by the words "the Members'; (b) c. 3 the number (c) a new item shall be created. 5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5. in the event of serious violation of the law or the Code of Ethics of the Court of Auditors. (d) c. 5 is going to be t. 6; 2. and the expression "Deputy Vice-President" everywhere in the texts of para. 2-5 is replaced by the word "supplier'; 3. a new para is created. 4. In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 5, The Court of Auditors shall make a reasoned proposal to the National Assembly. The proposal shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the members, and that member for which the grounds for termination arose shall not participate in the vote. Paragraph 4 and para. 5 becomes respectively. 5 and para. 6 as the word "one-monthly" in para. 4 is replaced by the expression
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? [[There are MPs who have declared a wish to speak.]] All right, for the next National Assembly meeting. It's 10:30, I'm calling a 30-minute break. As of 11:00, we continue with parliamentary control. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u118	Honourable Members, we are continuing with what is scheduled for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev. It is set by the MP Jevdet Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev! At a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Water on 4 December 2014, the Minister of Environment and Water, in response to a question I have asked, announced that it will be set up, I quote: "The Methodical Council, which will act in the Council of Ministers to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, which will be composed of representatives of all control bodies and audit bodies. They will rule on the nature of the error made which led to the imposition of financial corrections and will accordingly come up with methodical guidance to the authorities responsible. As Mrs. Vasileva explained then, the aim of this body is to review the financial corrections imposed at the time of municipalities under various operational programmes and, when it is found that the errors which led to the imposition of financial corrections are due to deficiencies in legislation, lack of adequate control by other bodies, such as the Public Procurement Agency, the Commission for Protection of Competition, managing authorities of the operational programmes concerned, to find a fair approach to allocating the burden of financial correction in the case where each of these systems was responsible for errors made. Particularly on the sanctions imposed on the municipalities under the Operational Programme "Environment 2007" - 2013, Minister Ivelina Vasileva said, I quote: "The biggest problem that hit the Operational Programme and beneficiaries was the imposition of financial corrections in the so-called "retrospective check" carried out in the period April-July 2014. As a result of this review, we believe that the financial corrections imposed on municipalities were largely unfounded or unduly imposed. At the meeting held on 15 January this year again of the Committee on Environment and Water, Minister Ivelina Vasileva informed us that this Methodical Council has already been established, which operates, and the aim is, as I have already pointed out, to review the financial corrections imposed on municipalities under the various operational programmes, this Methodical Council of the Council of Ministers to come up with opinions to the managing authorities. What we have learned is that municipalities will be able to apply for an interest-free loan, respectively with forms to the managing authority, subsequently to the Ministry of Finance, and this will be an approach to free itself and give an accelerated move to implement operational programmes. In this respect, my questions are very briefly: how long is a review of the financial corrections expected to take place on the various projects, on the various operational programmes and to come up with opinions? Will these opinions be mandatory or recommended to managing authorities? Regarding the Operational Programme "Environment," I have already quoted Minister Vasileva: will the financial corrections themselves be considered and reviewed? This also applies to the regional operational programme, briefly speaking. Are we expecting problems from the European Commission in relation to this approach and the approach applied to exit the particular situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chakarov! I merely remind you that the very methodology for imposing financial corrections has been initiated by me since 2010 as an instrument to ensure, so to speak, the purity of the system. If somewhere is wrong, it should be corrected in time and keep the entire financial instrument, the relevant operational programme from suspending or imposing other sanctions by the European Commission. In general, most of the time this tool was doing its job. As a matter of fact, financial corrections were not used in the best way at certain times due to unwise use. As a result, we have two operational programmes in addition to flat financial corrections imposed as part of the entire operational programme, which clears our relations with the European Commission, many individual financial corrections. The biggest problem is the financial corrections imposed on local authorities. In so far as this is not a matter of desire in many cases, they do not actually have the opportunity to repay them. Directly to your questions. The Methodical Council has already been formed. Even by my order of December, his name-calling staff has been assigned. You were correct in your question. In parallel, a mechanism has been created to use interest-free loans from the Ministry of Finance, which are designed to help local authorities finish their projects, because the great aim we have is for no project to be stopped, nor a project to remain incomplete, and at the same time not to bring municipalities into a liquid problem. But let me get this straight. The Methodical Board cannot recall the functions of the Managing Authority. The Methodical Council cannot seize the functions of the court. That would be at least a violation of the old Regulation 1083. It has another function. It cannot cancel a financial correction. This can only be done by the Bulgarian court. Another is the purpose of the Methodical Council. He needs to individualize the guilt. Across the spectrum of financial corrections, we have different cases. One of them is responsible for the contracting authority.. he has made a free or voluntary error in the award and, according to general logic, he is supposed to pay for it. In other cases, we are all to blame, the legislator, in so far as some of the adjustments are based on errors arising from untimely synchronised legislation, especially in the cases of 2008 and 2009, and the unsynchronised Public Procurement Act. In many of the procedures the de facto contractor is chosen not by the contracting entity, not by the respective municipality. He was elected by the KPC and the Supreme Administrative Court. In such a case, it would be difficult to individualise the wines with regard to the specific beneficiary. Let me remind you that a large part of the procedures have passed ex ante control through the Public Procurement Agency, all have passed ex post controls through the managing authorities. In many cases all these authorities have pronounced that the procedure in question is clean and conforms to the Bulgarian legislation. The main objective of the Methodical Council is to assess what part of the damage must be paid by the various participants in the system. Where there is certain evidence that it is the specific beneficiary's fault, the responsibility for the financial correction shall be his. However, when other state authorities are involved, then there is reason to blame the claim to be paid 50% of the beneficiary and 50% of the beneficiary to say by the managing authority. In cases where we are talking about unsynchronised legislation in time, then the correction should remain at the expense of the state budget because the whole state is guilty at once. I will use the next procedure to answer your last question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Chakarov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I cannot help but welcome your approach and the efforts made to solve this extremely serious problem, which, to a large extent, even blocks the work on the various operational programmes and, above all, on the Operational Programme "Environment" and "Regional Policy." A serious step has undoubtedly been taken. The other question, as you have said and presented the functions and objectives set out in this Methodical Council, I share your view that the opinions and decisions of the Methodical Council cannot be imperative. We all know what regulations the managing authority has stepped on and is acting on. It's a serious leg. I therefore welcome it, in view of the fact that until now only municipalities have been referred to as subjectivity in terms of financial corrections. Indeed, it is a step forward and progress that the various components and gaps in legislation, the Public Procurement Agency, the Commission for Protection from Competition, for all of them, subjectivity must be clearly defined, to assume appropriate responsibilities, because there are municipalities which, in view of the financial corrections imposed, exceed the annual budget of a separate municipality. This is impossible to pay by the municipality. This needs to be clarified. Let's all tell ourselves this was the first programming period for our country. We all learn, build, so what happens is an undisputed step forward in a positive direction. It is good to understand what time period the different projects under the different operational programmes are intended to be considered, to have an opinion and then each country to assume its responsibility for the further successful move and implementation of the different operational programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Here's your coat, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u125	Dear Mr. Chakarov, I agree with you that it is not right for the state to transfer all its faults and defects to the most fragile unit in the entire system, in this case the local authorities. Let me remind you that they are responsible for the investment process. They turn money into good things. Most of the responsibility is theirs. The rest of the system, which is in the ministries, monitors only the proper spending of the money. As I mentioned earlier, the Methodical Council has already been formed. We have received the first 5 or 6 complaints that will be dealt with immediately. By the end of March, I count on the main package of the most problematic cases for 2014 to be addressed. One more thing. The Methodical Council in question, the approach, the way of work is communicated in advance with representatives of the European Commission to be aware of our intentions, although where the adjustment is paid is a national issue. It is not a question of the European Commission's competence. What we had to assure our partners is that the adjustments imposed are not reviewed by an extrajudicial body. The purpose of the Methodical Council is to individualize guilt. We have to protect discipline. If someone broke it, he needs to know he's gonna pay. At the same time, the clear distribution of the wines will allow such elements of discipline to be implemented not only in relation to the final beneficiary of the municipality, but for the managing authority, including the entire control system. Another argument. As part of the idea for the functioning of the Methodical Council is the search for more synchronization between the work of the control bodies. You all know that in Bulgaria we have a long list of control bodies. You can argue whether this is an advantage or a problem. A project is often checked by four or five different control bodies. The big problem is the synchronization of the positions of the control bodies. Where the Court of Auditors, the auditors and the Agency for State Financial Inspection in respect of the same case have different opinions, this is an extremely wrong signal because the specific beneficiary is confused which signal should follow. I hope that one of the added values of the Council's work is to have more synchronization in the work of the control bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your response and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Honourable Members, before moving on to the next questions, allow me to inform you of any new questions concerning the period from 16 January to 22 January 2015. A question came in from: - MPs Dora Jankova and Maya Manolova to Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the renovation of residential buildings. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 30 January 2015; - National Representative Sultanka Petrova to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, regarding the attitude of the state towards cancer patients in the terminal stage. The reply should be made in writing by 4 February 2015; - National Representative Sultanka Petrova to Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice, on violation of fundamental principles in the law and rights of citizens of Bulgarian magistrates. The reply should be made in writing by 4 February 2015. Total number of questions 3. Written answers to a question from MPs from: - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Metodi Andreyev and Boris Yachev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Mariana Boyadjieva, Georgi Gokov, Dobrin Tanev, Kiril Dobrev and Atanas Zefirov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Darin Dimitrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Marinova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Krasimir Petkov, Krasimira Anastasova, Pavel Hristov and Plamen Manushev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Hristo Gazhev, Valentin Radev and Vladimir Toshev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Claudia Grigorova Gancheva; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi. We can proceed to the questions asked to the Minister of Interior Mr. Veselin Vuchkov. On behalf of a group, come in, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u127	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" and on behalf of hundreds of thousands of citizens and guests of Sofia yesterday, I would like to express my great outrage of the savage police, which has been applied to the inhabitants of Sofia in connection with the arrival here of the NATO Genset and its welcome. This plot has been repeating for several days since the foreign minister of the United States, the foreign minister of England, was here earlier. For the next time, Mr. Vuchkov, because you are the only representative of the government here and through you I also address the Prime Minister for the next time I directly recommend that you empty Sofia, evacuate Sofia, so that your superiors, when they come, absolutely unimpededed and without any obstructions, go to their meeting with the President, with the Prime Minister. They should greet them smiling, with flowers, with wrists and thus confirm how vassal, how servile and how pathetic Bulgaria is right now! In no other way can I call the behaviour of our statesmen to the President, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the Minister of Defence, whom a colleague of ours yesterday asked shortly before the meeting with the NATO Gensek: This is today's Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen! Today Bulgaria, in which with huge funds from the police, the gendarmerie of the railway fences, three cordon police officers separate the people who want to show Mr. NATO's genset that Bulgaria has another position besides the casion, except the servile one, besides the one shown on the casino televisions. The protesters, representatives of Ataka Party and the citizens who wanted to protest against NATO politics, were pushed into one corner with three rows of enclosures. They weren't even allowed to approach the presidency to see the posters they were protesting with. What are you afraid of, Mr. Interior Minister? What are you afraid of? From a parliamentary party or from the opinion of 2/3 of Bulgarians who do not want Bulgaria to join the NATO military bloc, which is aggressive, which is an analogue of Hitlerist Germany. I cannot make another comparison because, in the same way as Hitler has been attacking countries, NATO has been attacking sovereign states in the last ten-fifteen years. This is known, only I do not expect the Bulgarian statesmen and rulers to say it today when they face another official appointed as NATO chief. When he stood before the President yesterday, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defense, what did Mr. Stoltenberg say? He said he has come to buy information on how Bulgaria will meet the challenge from both the South and the East. Great words, wise words, bigger cliche I haven't heard in a while. But what did the Bulgarian statesmen say? Nothing! Nothing and a half. None of our representatives of the supreme executive power or the president's authority told Mr. Stoltenberg, "What challenges do you ask, Mr. Gensek?" Was it about the Islamic terrorism that created him, Washington, the CIA cops? Was it about the fire in Ukraine that set him off by Washington the CIA cops? And you now want to ask us how we will respond to the challenges that you are creating, because you are only a clerk, a Norwegian clerk of a machine that is going to start a Third World War today. And not with these ligaments with which they are welcomed, showing the yellow pavements and other locums and lacquers, with which the Bulgarian government has absolutely shown that it is untenable. A country that is at least respected will ask questions: what have we gained and what have we lost from our NATO membership? Our losses are huge! NATO has ruined our army! NATO has made sure we don't have any defensive weapons at all, NATO is now bringing us into war! What else have we learned in spite of the total opaqueness that went through the meeting with Stoltenberg yesterday? And the media were isolated, I didn't see them protesting, but they were long asleep and quiet, long-fed journalists, as one head of a right-wing party said. And they kept quiet, even though they were pushed behind the enclosures, although they're no longer allowed tens of meters away from what's happening. They keep their mouths shut so it's more comfortable, yes! Bulgaria has already taken over the country. Besides being colonized, it's anesthetized by reflexes about what's happening. However, something very disturbing is happening, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although the hall is half empty, I hope that my words will reach many Bulgarians because what is happening is extremely worrying. Once again, out of this high tribune, I give a very clear warning, except to the MPs who will take part in the crime to bring us into war, I mean the coalition: Borisov This coalition is currently bringing Bulgaria into war. Remember my word: one day she will respond as MPs, ministers and prime ministers responded to the People's Court several decades ago because they brought Bulgaria to the side of the Trilateral Pact, to Hitler's side. Now the same, the government, this coalition, which I have listed, brings Bulgaria to war. What did Stoltenberg want here? The NATO base here. What did our statesmen say? They kindly suggested that Varna or around Varna be this base. What's this comfy about? Former so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. This is what awaits us and this will happen from Bulgarian territory. Do you think that the person who is threatened, i.e. the Russian Federation, will stand by and watch as they threaten her from yesterday's brother Bulgaria? No! He'll point his heavy weapons here. We will become the target of military action. We already are, because we've given ourselves four bases to the Americans. We will now give NATO an official base on the seashore so that Crimea can be attacked, because this will be the next point to be burned. The CIA cops, those same ones who created the jihadists, the same ones who set the Ukrainian war on fire, are now going to make sure that the fascist junta in Kiev, which they support the same nats, and the government here, is attacking Crimea to get it back, of course, in Ukraine. It'll be the next fire to burn. Bulgaria will be involved in this crime. However, I warn you and turn to the rest of your healthy thinking, mainly to executive power. I'm not addressing the president because I've lost all hope there. If it's up to him, he'll declare war on Russia tomorrow, my dear. But they must be stopping him from the American Embassy and saying, "No, don't worry, dear Rossene!" It's still early, don't! We'll tell you when he's ready, he's already signed the decree of war with Russia. I appeal to the government: if he has common sense, he should immediately stop playing with NATO! To organise a referendum on Bulgaria's exit from the NATO military bloc! Let us declare neutrality and show that we do not want to be brought into the dangerous games of the United States in any way! Only this is the salvation, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I will list again: Borisov You, who I list you as leaders of the political parties and coalitions forming today's cabinet, will be responsible tomorrow when Bulgaria will sacrifice in the next war. You will be responsible and you will not be able to hide from this responsibility. So think on time, do what you have to do in time, so you don't get hurt tomorrow by the people's anger. That's what I can tell you. I've spoken many times from this tribune of warnings, and, unfortunately, they've come true, alas. Now I don't want this to come true, but seeing where things are going and looking at the total lack of carelessness of the ruling coalition: Borisov The only solution is to make elections and in power to really come patriots, to come really people to stop the insanity of Bulgaria being put into war. It's the only thing that's gonna save us. If this were done in 1941, things would be different for Bulgaria. Our story would have been different! Now we can still save something. But tomorrow may be too late. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u128	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Are there any other group statements, or should we continue with the questions? We continue by asking the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov about the withdrawn representatives of the Ministry of Interior in Belgrade, Skopje, Moscow and Prague in the mandate of the Minister of Interior Mr. Yovchev. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u129	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I allow myself to pose a problem that brings a huge dose of actuality for two reasons: first of all, in view of the recent events in Paris that have turned the international community upside down; secondly, with an escalating problem for Bulgaria, namely the refugee wave. In the past few years, however, the issue of police attachés has been drawn up in various forms, but an undisputed fact, which we should not neglect, is that there were indications that the position of police attaché would become mandatory for all Bulgarian embassies around the world. These officers, I would like to point out, have been selected according to heavy competition procedures preceded by longstanding, consistent and excellent work in the Ministry of Interior system. Their main obligations are: 1. establishment and maintenance of permanent contact with related services; 2. assistance and support of operational processes under crisis circumstances; 3. neutralizing events concerning law enforcement and law enforcement systems related to problems from illegal immigrants to attempts to launder money. I believe that interaction with the Member States is a bilateral process. The mutual exchange of police attaché shall ensure the necessary information exchange, reliability in front of collective security programmes, including national security. Dear Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Interior in Belgrade, Skopje, Moscow, Athens and Prague were pulled into the mandate of Minister Jovchev. It is widely known that one of the main problems in combating the smuggling of excise goods comes from our southern border. It is also widely known that the black market for excise goods during the administration of the previous government has reached high dimensions. I would like to point out that we are the only European Union country that has contractual relations with the Russian Interior Ministry and the FSB to provide all of our necessary information for controlling the movement of goods with possible dual use, the origin of money and the movement of people, goods and services that would pose a problem for the law enforcement and justice system of Bulgaria and the European Union. My question is: don't you think that the withdrawal of these representatives deprives us of the possibility of an effective exchange of direct operational information in real time and hinders the prevention and opposition of the Bulgarian law enforcement system of possible criminal acts in these highly sensitive sectors to our society?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Minister Vuchkov, come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, in relation to your request, I provide you with the following information. In June 2013 at the disposal of the Minister of Interior Mr. Tzvetlin Yovchev, an analysis of the activity of the network of foreign-border representatives of the Ministry of Interior for 2012 was carried out in the accreditation countries and a political decision was taken to terminate the long-term missions of the foreign-border representatives of the Ministry of Interior in Poland, the Russian Federation, Serbia with accreditation for Montenegro, Macedonia with accreditation for Kosovo and Greece as of 4 November. 2013 The decision, in our opinion, is contrary to the information from the analysis carried out, where the importance of activities for all international representatives is emphasised. Their functional duties are primarily aimed at the collection, analysis and provision of pre-emptive operational information supporting the work of the competent authorities of the Ministry of Interior with the law enforcement authorities of the host State in preventing, detecting and investigating national and international crimes. Negative response to the political decision taken by Minister Yovchev was received by the embassies of the Republic of Bulgaria in all the countries listed above. With regard to the position in Prague, however, the Czech Republic, I would like to make the following clarification. In April 2013, the position of an overseas Ministry of Interior representative in the Czech Republic with accreditation for Slovakia was closed, which was terminated after his term of office and does not fall between those withdrawn in the mandate of Minister Jovchev. I would like to focus on the fact that with the closure of positions in Belgrade and Skopje, Bulgaria remains virtually without foreign representatives in the Western Balkans, a high priority area for the European Union and in which liaison officers from the Member States have an active network and close cooperation. Regarding our interaction with Russia, which you explicitly highlighted in your question, I would like to assure you that I take into account the importance of bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation, which have long-standing cooperation in foreign policy, security, economy and others. The foreign ministry representative has been involved in the coordination of a number of bilateral documents in recent years and, apart from the Russian Ministry of Interior, has also ensured cooperation with the Federal Security Service, the Investigation Committee of Russia, the General Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Emergency, the Federal Office for the Control of Drugs and other institutions. No less important is his activity and the meetings of liaison officers of the Member States of the European Union in Russia. About co-operation with Serbia. I consider it extremely important to build and strengthen mutual trust between the related structures of the Ministry of Interior in both countries. Bulgaria and Serbia are participating and working actively to promote the use of the Western Balkan countries as an instrument within the framework of the South East European Police Co-operation Convention, all the more so that Serbia is in the process of building and strengthening its single national unit for international law enforcement cooperation and by November 2013, the main part of the exchange of information has been carried out precisely through our foreign representative in Belgrade. To conclude, I would like to stress that the closure of overseas offices in Belgrade, Skopje and Moscow is rather negatively affecting co-operation in the area of security, justice and partnership between police services. In this regard, at the end of November 2014, a detailed analysis of the activities of the foreign missions of the Ministry of Interior closed at the end of 2013 was carried out in the execution of my order and a recovery procedure is ongoing in Moscow and Belgrade. The rules on the terms and conditions for the selection of state officials from the Ministry of Interior for taking up office, which require mandatory competition, are confirmed by my order on 20 November 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Belemezov, you have the right to ask two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Minister. In general, I am pleased with your answer, and I would rather express my attitude before asking my further questions. I believe that this action of the government with the mandate of the previous government is unprecedented in its order to strike upon the workers of the years built good professional relations between Bulgaria's law enforcement systems with the countries mentioned. I also believe that such an act gives rise to an extremely negative assessment and casts a dark shadow between the relations at operational level with the partner countries from which the police attaché was last recalled. All of us and the Bulgarian public have the unpleasant impression that the previous government has shown disinterest in the smuggling of excise goods. Let me remind you that we are valuable to the European Union in this activity. In this way, once again, we deprive ourselves of the opportunity to be a worthy partner, to effectively counteract the problems of the day, smuggling, refugee wool, and so on. I am pleased that you have ordered the return of positions to certain countries. I would rather ask you further: would this include a possible follow-up act for the return of other employees to the other countries mentioned? Secondly, do you think that this type of position in the structure of the Ministry of Interior is an extremely convenient opportunity for a problem that has been very widely placed in the last few months, there are also trade union organizations in the structure of the Ministry of Interior, namely for career development. I mean, don't you think this is a good form of career development and motivation for employees in the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Minister Vuchkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u135	Dear Mr. Belemezov, if I may answer the second question first. Of course it's a good form for career development. And so it should be, as far as I know almost all the overseas representatives of the Ministry of Interior, because in the previous term until 2013, I was also responsible for international cooperation and I was the head of the Competition Commission, which replaced everyone. I think these are people who enter these positions after frequent competitions and after they have shown real results in their activities. These cannot be newly appointed employees who simply have foreign language training. These are people who need to know the situation very well in Bulgaria and from the point of view of the Ministry of Interior and the services, and of course to have shown themselves a good partner with the countries in which they go to work. Here the problem is rather not to turn this into a five-year isolation from the situation in Bulgaria because there were such examples, i.e. 5-10 years of some employees to be constantly on a cross-border mission and, generally, this has a number of adverse consequences, mainly violating the Diplomatic Service Act, which requires three, a maximum of four years for such a position and to circumvent various provisions, and to allow a situation where some employees to stay abroad for more than 10 years even. I believe that a periodic rotation has a favourable meaning in every respect, and I will always support such an approach. With regard to whether the trend for announcing competitions will cover other representations, I would very much like this to happen. The problem here is purely financial. I suppose you're aware of that. We have given priority to these two capitals, which I mentioned just now, because they are important to us from different perspectives. Just so you know, a foreigner of the Ministry of Interior costs about 68 thousand a year to the Ministry's budget. Euros if he's there with his family. If he's alone, without the family, about 56,000. Euros. Our budget's pretty tight. Parliament voted on it at the end of December. We're trying to make some internal savings. We also intend to announce new overseas representations through a competition procedure, but this is a matter of implementation of the budget by March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. Will you take advantage of your right to be treated, or have you already expressed it? Yes, thank you. On behalf of a parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria "Michael Mikov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! The reason to address you today is the public concern of the economic impasse in which the government is pushing our country. These days the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development lowered its forecasts for our country's economic growth in 2015 to the extremely disturbing 0.8% (with expected 2,0% by September 2014.). In 2013 the growth of the economy was 1.1% and in 2013 the growth of the economy was 1.1%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The bad, unstable, as you would like to call it a year for which we do not yet have final data, the growth is 1.5%. But growth in 2014 is only due to its strong first half. Thus, the growth of the economy for 2015 appears to be the weakest of the last 3 years, although for the first three quarters of 2014 there was a consistent growth of 1.6. The growth in the first half of 2014 was reported by both the IMF and the European Commission and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the BSP did not participate in writing their reports. Today, however, the same international institutions have already outlined a clear trend for worsening the country's prospects for economic development. This is the fully objective assessment of the specialists of what has been happening in the last 5-6 months with our economy. That's why these data are so disturbing. But even more worrying for us are the data in view of other important macroeconomic indicators, which also reveal the government's powerlessness to give direction to development. They show the pathlessness of a government that governs because of the exercise of power, not for the realization of policies in the public interest. While Bulgaria's forecasts are constantly deteriorating, neighbouring bankrupt Greece, which the prime minister made fun of several years ago, predicts three times the growth of the economy. What forced an increase in government debt from 18.3% of GDP in May 2014 to almost 23% since August. The reason for this can't be KTB. The payments of the guaranteed deposits started well after August 2014. What is the justification for the increase in the amount of government debt by the end of 2015 to 24,5 billion. BGN, as the ratio of government debt to GDP is expected to reach 29.7%? CCB can't be the only excuse for this. And if these huge loans are absorbed, which will owe our children $1 billion each. interest rates per year, then why do we have to freeze social payments today? Doesn't that create huge groups of people who are wronged today, tomorrow and from now on? Doesn't this government decision condemn our country to a spiral of poverty deepening, which is obviously missed by the government's keen gaze? And why these huge loans are needed after the government plans the budget deficit to be less than 3% and public administration employees to be cut by 10%. Who needs these self-target macroeconomic exercises that have been carried out for years on the back of the people and on their behalf? The pat on the shoulder of EU member states and the general photos with their leaders cannot justify the injustices that give rise to this financial policy. The states themselves, whose approval the government is fighting for, sacrificing the interest of the Bulgarians, maintain quite different macroeconomic indicators that make the lives of their citizens incomparablely better than that of the Bulgarian citizens. Yesterday it became clear that the European Central Bank provides a new 1.5 trillion euros for the economy of the Eurozone, with which to move its economy. And in our country the public investment programme was discontinued, which is Healthy for any normally functioning economy inflation + 1.8% in the first half of 2014, is now becoming a deflation process - minus 1.5 percent at the end of 2014, which reduces the chances of recovery and development. And this, note, in the poorest EU member state, which obviously with such a policy cannot implement normally, not to mention the catch-up development that Bulgaria needs. The government continues to tolerate foreign chains at the expense of Bulgarian small and medium-sized producers and does nothing to open new markets after the closing of Russians for us. In fact, this is just one of the manifestations of an unbalanced foreign economic policy of this government. But unfortunately, it is not the only event with a negative effect on the development of the economy in Bulgaria. As a result of this bad foreign policy, we are seeing a complete ignoring by the government of formats from which neighbouring countries, including members of the European Union, take full advantage and in the interests of their citizens. What happens to foreign investments in Bulgaria? Are they growing? Are they slowing down? What forced the withdrawal of strategic investors from structural-determining industries in Bulgaria? In fact, you ruling gentlemen of the ruling majority will be remembered for the termination of the three major energy projects in our country, and not without a certain pride expressed by government officials. What does the government do for agriculture or for the tourist season? What part of the European funds are available for absorption, really, and not just according to the media statements of the well-arranged PR of the government? Against the backdrop of all these disturbing facts, which, by the way, are entirely the responsibility of the government, we observe the powerlessness of a non-homogenic neoliberal and right-wing government to make sense of its existence, to remain in power. Impulses for development in the economy were replaced by gloomy prospects. The economy does not develop with the removal or with the freezing of social benefits, as Djankov did in the previous cabinet with Prime Minister Borisov. The economy is developing with the creation of incentives, clear rules and active government policy. We cannot strive proudly for a 2.5% budget deficit in order to be able to show off as the macroeconomic winners of Europe, but at the same time to freeze 14 social payments, to affect the income of the most vulnerable few hundred thousand working poor and to have claims for the development of human capital, because of which foreign investors would look at Bulgaria. We should not lightly stop train lines and risk the future of the railways as state, but at the same time do large-scale PR campaigns to refresh the facades of blocks in some large cities for billion leva. I'm not going to go into this to draw the difference between facade change and sanitization. Those who deal in more detail with construction know what it is, but this does not fall into the analyses that government PR generously pours through the media. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not fair and this is economically untenable, without perspective and short-sighted! This government has no direction. It cannot give Bulgaria the necessary economic and social policy. And the prime minister is obviously afraid to take responsibility for his cabinet's actions and is hiding behind the back of one or another minister. And this conclusion cannot be justified by the fact that the 100-day period of tolerance has not yet expired. Because we've already seen this movie. Only at the time, the roadless government inherited a huge budget surplus, which spent short-sightedly and put people on the streets. And today it happens at the cost of loans that our children will pay. Although it does not guarantee it in itself, economic development is important for Bulgaria, because without it it is not possible to realize the social state for which we from BSP left Bulgaria and we will be stubborn and persistent in the mandate of the 43rd National Assembly. That is why we insist: the need for economic development to be a top priority of the country and the government, with real measures and not with PR and propaganda, because only the economically strong state can implement a social state in Bulgaria. And we will not allow, in any way, and the Bulgarian citizens will not allow this prospect to be sacrificed in the name of the self-government of today's government and majority. Thank you for your attention. [[Extreme applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u138	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov, who is asked by the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva about the actions of the Ministry of Interior regarding the crimes committed by citizens during the protests during the mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly. Here you are, Mrs. Tasheva, for the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u139	Mr. Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is known that during the mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly, a number of crimes have been committed by protesters of Bulgarian policemen, destruction of municipal property, hooligan activities, occupation of educational institutions, insults and bodily damage to MPs, arson, systematic violations of public order. That was over a year and a half ago. The question is: what criminal proceedings, how many in number and which texts of the Penal Code are currently being formed and are being prosecuted? What progress have the pre-trial proceedings formed during the Forty-second National Assembly, and at what stage are they located? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Minister Vuchkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Tasheva! We have encountered some difficulty at the Interior Ministry in order to be able to answer the question as it is asked, for the simple reason that there are no specific statistics that will answer the specific question you have asked regarding the protests... neither indication of regions nor specific dates, because during the protests other than violations of public order, which have possibly been committed, there have been violations and crimes committed on many other occasions and in many other regions of the country. Nevertheless, I have tried, mainly with the help of the prosecution and using their registers, to produce statistics on the destruction and damage of foreign movable property, against the law of preventing an authority from fulfilling its duties in the service, hooliganism, hooliganism against an authority, causing bodily harm to a police body, causing bodily harm at all, cases brought under the management of the prosecution, and some of them have not yet finished. So, in answer to your question, I can provide the following information. A total of 34 pre-trial proceedings were initiated in the Ministry of Interior. 26 were formed in the Ministry of Interior, Plovdiv 7 in the Ministry of Interior, Pleven 1. Of these two pre-trial proceedings under art. 270 of the Code of Penalty.. against the law of the authority to fulfil an obligation of service; four pre-trial proceedings under art. 216, para. 1 of the NC.. the destruction and damage of foreign movable property; one pre-trial proceedings under art. 194, para. 1 of the NK.. theft; 14 pre-trial proceedings under art. 325, para. 1 of the NK.. hooliganism; five pre-trial proceedings under art. 325, para. 2 of the NK.. hooliganism against authority; one pre-trial proceedings under art. 131, para. 2 of the NC.. causing bodily harm to a police body; two pre-trial proceedings under art. 131, para. 1 of the NC.. causing bodily harm; two pre-trial proceedings under art. 144, para. 3 of the NKK, threatened with murder; one pre-trial proceedings under art. 127 of the NK.. suicidal behaviour; one pre-trial procedure under art. 274a of the NK.. illegal holding, carrying of service signs or inscriptions; one pre-trial procedure under art. 330 of the NK arson. A total of 33 pre-trial proceedings have ended with the opinion of the investigating authorities of the monitoring prosecutor as follows: 13 are sent with an opinion on the preparation of an indictment and handing over the defendant to a court; 8 are sent with an opinion on suspension due to the non-disclosure of the perpetrator of the crime. 244, para. 1, t. 2 of the PPC; 12 are of the opinion of termination, with the provisions of the Small Hooliganism Act applied to one; investigation of one pre-trial procedure continues. Content information can be obtained from the relevant prosecution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u142	Thank you, Minister Vuchkov, for your comprehensive response. Opportunity for a cue. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u143	Mr. Minister, I am really amazed by your statement that you find it difficult to answer this question because the events I'm asking you have flown into the common flow of disorderly public order in the country and, you see, you don't know the night of the white bus? Hard to tell? There was the implementation of flagrant violations of public order and of compositions of the Penal Code. People come without hiding, organized, carrying their ladder, leaning it on the billboard, getting on board, getting skinned and burning it, the canvas flames all this in front of the live cameras, live. Burning rags fly to neighboring balconies where there's laundry. 100 per cent of the composition of art. 330, which requires 3 to 8 years of punishment for arson, and in aggravating circumstances, as there is a danger of damage to other property. And we have to go to the D.A.'s office right now to look for where this case is, right? Because you can't tell what happened, what is the conclusion of pretrial proceedings? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u144	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u145	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I specifically provided you with the information from the prosecution and the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior regarding the question you asked. Legal qualifications, investigation deadlines, what conclusions have been concluded by the relevant pre-trial proceedings, which texts of the NKK and the PPC have closed the case. And this is objective information contained in the information funds. At the same time, I would like to make a clear distinction not to bind certain anti-social acts, administrative violations or crimes to the overall assessment of all the protests that took place in July 2013. I was then a MP and I know very well what this is about. Such a mix-up of the two concepts will, in my opinion, be socially unacceptable and unfair, because this public anger was caused by a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament as a result of a change in the law on the Ministry of Interior and the DANS, which happened in four working days and we contributed to the world history, that because of a change in security service the Bulgarian citizens spontaneously went out on the streets to protest against the oligarchy something that we also find fair from today's perspective. It is quite separate that within all protests, not only in this one, sometimes there are groups who, either without prior training or spontaneous, but very often and pre-organized, quite deliberately commit even crimes. This is precisely why I pointed out to you specific statistics so that there would be no speculation on this issue and so that we would not pollute the overall assessment of this public anger, which took over the country as a result of a very short-sighted, mildly incorrect, extremely harmful decision of the Bulgarian Parliament a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u146	Thank you, Minister Vuchkov. We are going to ask the MP Desislav Chukolov about the policy of the Ministry of Interior in preventing fraud by telephone in recent years. Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, to do your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as you have heard, I will make a question about a question that excites and affects many Bulgarians. You know, in recent years, phone fraud is a crime that affects people who are in the country, it affects people who are in the city. Phone cheaters navigate quite cleverly, they are skilled in their acquired ways of manipulation. They're very skilled, as if from morning till night they read the books of Kevin Mitnik, social engineering and apply these tricks of their own. What are they? I will say them quickly: a call for a seriously injured relative to naturally give money; infected relatives and relatives with bird or pig flu; realized crash by a close relative with a deceased person; conducting a police operation; needing money to release a package; buying vouchers in connection with profit from a raffle; need a translator and so on. Now, in the last few days, I've heard there's also such a phone scam about sanitization. This topic becomes popular in Bulgarian society and immediately there are people who use this to lie to their compatriots. The Ministry of Interior has naturally conducted certain shares over the years. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is if you can provide me with statistics from 2007 to 2013 on the number of registered crimes of this type of telephone fraud and the amounts in BGN, with which the Bulgarian citizens are wronged. And answer my question: is the Ministry of Interior a comprehensive policy designed to tackle this trend in a complex way? Within one response, which is three minutes, you can hardly unfold if there is such a policy to explain it in fullness to the MPs, but still say whether there is such a policy or not. You can see that domestic crimes, this term is accepted to be called "Bbit Crimes" "Gypsy Crimes," it is clear to you that at least 80% of these phone scams are committed by gypsy gangs. During the campaign, when I've been walking around, when I'm meeting voters now, and I'm interested in what is this big house we're passing, often our people say to me, "Well, yes, it's the phone cheaters." People themselves know them in settlements. I wish the Ministry of Interior would know them that way and take adequate action against them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Here you are, Minister, you can develop the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov, you are asking a question that affects a very commonly used method of committing crimes. Forms and modifications are so diverse. In recent days, we can point out even more examples than those you mentioned. Maybe if there's a line, we can share information. The so-called phone frauds have grown in recent years. In 2009, a jump was reported, followed by a certain decline. There are certain tides and tides. When it became possible to have an unlimited number of prepaid mobile phone sim cards, this particularly increased as a trend. With this, of course, I do not mean that someone should restrict the right to property in this regard. I'm just saying that this is a favorable prerequisite and condition for carrying out such phone scams. Statistics in the period 2007 - 2013 on the number of crimes of this type in the country: - 2007. - 159 registered crimes identified by the perpetrators of 19 persons; - 2008 southanced 273 counts of crimes committed by the perpetrators of 45 persons; - 2009 registered "401 crimes identified " perpetrators" - 68 persons; - 2010 registered "298 crimes committed by the perpetrators - 63 persons; - 2011 registered " 287 crimes committed by the perpetrators of 62 persons; - 2012 registered " 386 crimes committed by the perpetrators of 64 persons; - 2013 registered " 586 crimes committed by the perpetrators - 82 persons. Regarding the information on the money with which the affected citizens are injured, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Interior does not keep such statistics on the incriminating amounts generated by the perpetrators of this type of crime. The policy of the Ministry of Interior for Countering Phone Fraud is in two directions: preventive work with potential victims here, prevention can be much more favourable than other types of crimes or already identified, as well as work aimed at detecting the perpetrators. In October 2012, the Ministry of Interior launched a broad media campaign, perhaps some of you remember, aimed at getting citizens acquainted with the various mechanisms and schemes of phone fraud, as well as how to react. Since then, information is regularly made available to the public, through any mass media, about various current scenarios for making phone fraud. In 2013, there was also a explanatory campaign on the ground with a focus on lonely living and elderly people who are most often victims of such crimes, including regional media, mayors, municipal administration and representatives of social services. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Interior is reporting crimes through a telephone as a serious problem that needs to be addressed systematically. In this regard, a permanent expert group at national level has been set up to analyse the operational situation and propose measures to counter this type of crime. He also organizes events to detain the perpetrators and keeps records of the criminal activity. Permanent identification and detention operations are also carried out not only of the factual perpetrators but also of their accomplices. At times, it is very difficult to identify as a distinction in practice the persons used as couriers to transport incriminating cash. As a result of the active actions taken by the Ministry of Interior, this type of crime was brought out of the area of the so-called "Latin," hidden crime. Citizens began to signal the authorities of the Ministry of Interior even in attempts to commit fraud against them. This, in turn, led to an increase in registered phone frauds and a certain increase in their disclosureability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u150	Thank you, Minister Vuchkov. Mr. Chukolov, you can ask up to two questions within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u151	Thank you. My further questions are as follows. Does the Ministry of Interior, the Council of Ministers in general, intend to continue this information campaign? Yes, in 2012, such a campaign, past and gone. Then there is some decline in these crimes, but now you see the upward trend again. My question is: will this campaign continue? The other question I would like to ask is, is there, if you would, a website, is there a phone number on which the victim, the victim, immediately call, dictate the phone number from which they called him, and have the relevant people immediately trace from which cell, which phone number, which SIM card this happened and act really quickly? In general, all bureaucraticism on this issue must be removed in our view, because, as you have said, as we all know, this affects mostly elderly people. An elderly person is usually also difficult to move. When there is an attempt at telephone fraud and he calls the police department in question, they will say to him: "Come here to fill out a request, to write an explanation and so on, something that he will very hardly do if he does it at all, if he even calls the Ministry of Interior in the hope that something will change. My advice to you is: as soon as possible to remove bureaucracy, in these cases to have an emergency line, to have the direct channel from the possible victim to the relevant authorities, in order to act as quickly as possible and to locate the possible criminal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u152	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u153	Dear Mr. Chukolov, with regard to a special campaign, I can say that we are planning campaigns in three directions, including with the help of the media, in relation to some current problems with the Interior Ministry, for which the assistance of civil society is certainly needed. The first is road safety, which is always at the center of our attention. The other day, we had a special meeting of a state, public advisory committee on this matter. The second topic is the so-called vandalism. As MPs, you probably know better than I do a trend that occurs in both larger and smaller settlements in recent months and years that we seem to be not paying enough attention to. And in third place, the phone scams. Here, I would not say in answer to your second question that there are administrative obstacles. If there is, I will specifically check to see to it that they are removed as quickly as possible. Phone 112 can be easily used for this, if there are other means of communication, even though it is for elderly people, and in the province there are hardly any other options. The problem is that it understands these crimes after they have been committed, and the forms of fraud are increasingly diverse. So diverse that one might wonder if it wasn't examples of science fiction. In the last few days, there are two forms that have also been claimed by the Interior Ministry, unfortunately, after a completed crime. One of you mentioned it in connection with the collection of money for future renovation of panels. The second, particularly interesting, was asked money from an elderly woman because her loved one fell into an elevator shaft. Therefore, meeting with people on the ground is a major focus of our regional directorates. I believe that MPs could also explain this in their foster homes. Police inspectors will certainly try to bring as many people to know, especially in the province and among the elderly, that they do not succumb in any way to such elementary attempts at telephone fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u154	Thank you, Minister Vuchkov. Mr. Chukolov, would you care to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u155	Thank you. My attitude towards your response actually affects the activities of the ministers before you: and of Minister Tsvetanov, then I forgot who was...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u156	Please stick to the specific answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u157	Okay, take it easy. These crimes exist, campaigns are being carried out, but in no way does this affect their reduction. In 2009, I think that changes were then adopted to the relevant laws, the Simkart holders were obliged to declare their names. There are no anonymous symcards in Bulgaria anymore. Then it was taken a little bit of a knife by society, heard a lot of lines about policemanship, restriction of rights and so on. The main argument that Minister Tsvetanov expressed at the time was that by adopting this measure, we will deal with the telephone fraud. Did we get through to them? We didn't make it. Are they moving on now? They're moving on. So something has to change in your work, Mr. Minister, and a little more seriously look at this direction, because, again, these crimes are suffering from the elderly, the underprivileged people who, at their age, are being lied to and left without one lev for a living.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u158	Thank you to the MP Mr. Chukolov. We move on to the next question to Minister Vuchkov, he is from the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov, concerning the actions of inspectors from the Second Police Department of Varna, against the advocates of Coalition ABB. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is already quite limited, but I believe it is becoming obsolete, given the upcoming new elections. On 7 October 2014, ABB advocates received a call on their personal phones from an inspector in the Second Police Department. Varna. They've been assigned a meeting for questioning of a gas station in the area, and after refusing to visit this uncontrolled location, they've been called to the police station. A check in registered complaints and signals from the election campaign for MPs on 5 October 2014 shows that there are no complaints or signals filed against Coalition of ABB parties. The interrogations are ordered by protocol without any complaints or signals against the Coalition. Two of the intercessors appear at the police station. The questions they should have answered are: why did you choose ABB, who recruited you, have they secured your presence? On the territory of the district, there is another similar illegal act by the Ministry of Interior in the town of Devnya. On 2.10.2014 an activist from Coalition of parties ABC Yanko Budakov was drafted a warning protocol under the Ministry of Interior Act not to participate in the political activities of Coalition of parties ABC and not to engage in the electoral process. On the 4th of the same month, he was again reminded not to be an active participant in the election day. Mr. Yanko Budakov was not informed of the reasons for the actions taken against him. The Ministry of Interior in the face of the Minister of Interior has committed itself to fair and democratic elections and the prevention and detection of a controlled vote. In CEC, I also have an incoming number, a complaint has been filed by citizens to pay for the recruitment of advocates of the Political Party................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The complaint states that the advocates are convinced and are promised incentive in a paid campaign and actually received votes in support of these parties. Movement of the complaint in the CEC has not been registered. Instead, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior commit themselves to accustomed to regularly registered advocates. My question is related to the measures that your Ministry intends to take in order to avoid such actions that are contrary to the law and discredit the work of the numerous honest employees of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kuchukov, on the first part of the question I would like to share the following information. A check on the case was carried out and it found that on 5 October 2014 around 15:00 p.m. in the Second Police Department a signal was received from Teodor Stefanov about illegal actions related to the electoral process through District Centre 112. Snede is a written report and a file is formed, and the same is reported to Prosecutor Kirova at the District Prosecutor's Office. I can also point to the case file. I have several times had to become a spokesperson for the prosecution, which I think is not very constitutionally appropriate, but, anyway, the executive is subject to parliamentary control. In the end, very often actions in specific proceedings, including in this case, are the result of the prosecution's instructions. Police officer Boyan Papazov performed a check on the signal, following the instructions of Prosecutor Kirova. The person named by the sender of the signal is Mr. Hristo Boyanov. After he gives a report stating that as a representative of Coalition ABB provides food for advocates on a list of names and phones, he also monitors the total number of voters, the lead inspector forms and reports the file. Prosecutor Kirova returned the case with instructions for establishing the advocates on the list of Mr. Hristo Boyanov. The verification of the implementation of the additional instructions is assigned to the police officer Hristo Novakov. Due to the short deadline for its implementation, Novakov conducts phone calls with the persons on the list and informs them that taking information can be convenient for them. All persons appear in the regional government of their own free will, where they write their own information. After the implementation of the instructions of Prosecutor Kirova, the police officer Novakov completed the file and handed it over to the District Prosecutor's Office of Varna, pay attention with a view to refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings within the meaning of art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 of the PPC. By decree of 7 October 2014, Prosecutor Kirova refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings and terminated the case. Regarding the second part of the issue related to activist Janko Budakov, I would like to inform you that an inspection has been carried out which establishes the following. In accordance with Order No 81-21-h-642 of 2014 of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior Svetozar Lazarov and the order of the Head of the District Department of Devnya, on 3 October 2014 the police officer Stoyan Stoyanov prepared four minutes of police warning, including Mr. Budakov, against whom two files of complaints by citizens were filed for violation of the electoral process of 28 October 2011 and 25 May 2014. Aware of the police warning protocol, Mr. Budakov was warned not to carry out illegal actions related to the election process of the Republic of Bulgaria. Finally, I would like to assure you that the management of the Ministry of Interior in my face and in the face of my colleagues firmly assert the position that the employees of the Ministry of Interior should act according to their powers arising from the Bulgarian legislation and all signals of violations will be checked and appropriate measures will be taken in due time in the event of violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u162	Thank you, Minister Vuchkov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u163	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed information. It didn't make sense to me, however, what did Phone 112's signal have to do with the questions: why did you choose ABB, who recruited you, did they secure your presence? These are questions which, in my opinion, have nothing to do with any violations that did not actually turn out to be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Would you like to take advantage of the back? No. I thank the MP Georgi Kuchukov for the questions. National Representative Lutvi Mestan on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I took the floor on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group to tell you one, I suppose, joyous news for all of you. I hold in my hand, Mr. Secretary. [[shows document]] , receipt, import note for paid fine of 500 leva. in execution of a criminal decree issued by the Regional Governor of Sliven by GERB, at the signal of the then MP from GERB Mrs. Desislava Taneva, now Minister of Agriculture and Food in the cabinet Borisov. In the eighth year of Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, the president of parliamentary represented political power, as a direct result of the application of discriminatory norms in the Election Code, was fined because he exercised his most natural human right to speak to voters and in mother tongue. I repeat: mother tongue. If your joy is marred by the relatively low amount of the fine, because in the Code it is proposed that the culprit be fined up to 2 thousand leva, and this act is for 500, I am in a hurry to reassure you that during the last election campaign I and a number of my colleagues are punished with far more saltier fines of the maximum amount of 2 thousand leva, with one exception the Plovdiv district governor has fined me with the odd 687 leva. First, honourable colleagues from BSP, this receipt is a remnant of the Revival Process. The difference is that in those years the fine was 5 leva, and now it is from 500 to 2 thousand. Secondly, I recall that the discriminatory text in the Election Code was adopted with a very nice consensus between all parliamentary forces... GERB, BSP,......................................................................................... And I'm telling her about the blue ones, because the limit isn't from the 32nd National Assembly. We were left alone, in isolation, so to speak, in defending the Isconian human right, a mother tongue. For this isolation is my word today. Is the DPS in isolation, or do you all isolate yourselves from the values on which modern democracy and the European Union are stepping? A rhetorical question with a very clear answer: we are not alone. We have international treaties on our side, and I therefore declare responsibly that I will seek my rights in Strasbourg, as will, of course, my fellow Members, and not because we do not love our country, but because we want to see it as a democratic homeland of equal citizens. We've known isolation since 1984, we've been isolated in Construction Forces, as we are now isolated in ghettos. That's why we started not on the path of separatistism, but on integration. In primary reading, the DPS finds itself in isolation every time it raises the issue of mother tongue in the Education Act, for example, it remains alone in discussing the Civil Registration Act with which it offers administrative recovery of the names of the deceased during the revival process. Because, unlike you, who in words condemn the revival process in a parliament declaration, and in practice you vote against the proposals of the DPS once again all, including the authors of the declaration of condemnation of the revival process, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are a party to the active value action. There is no doubt that we will remain in isolation under the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship as well as under the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. I will remind you of another example because it is too revealing for another isolation of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We were alone, isolated from you, from a huge inferno hock anti-European majority in the Forty-second National Assembly, which, in violation of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union, voted on the proposal of Ataka to extend the Moratorium to ban European citizens from buying Bulgarian land. In fact, I'm asking today: who was in isolation then? Who?! The vast majority of GERB, BSP, attack, or DPS, which, although alone, remained true to its national responsibility and its European essence in one? Not on the isolated DPS, but on you by GERB, BSP, "Attack" you had to take a correctional parliamentary exam - the severe correctional exam of European values, which makes it difficult for you every time, because you have a problem with your political identity and with its democratic dimensions. A year ago, in the vote of the Moratorium, in isolation was not the DPS, but you isolated yourself from the civilization choice of Bulgaria, as well as today, when you rub your hands satisfied that you left only the DPS in countering xenophobia and hate language. If today we are alone with our thesis that Bulgarian Roma are equal and no one has the right to insult them by comparing them to scotts and wild animals, nor to call them people who are human, it is not isolation. This is a matter of political pride and responsibility before it is a privilege. Today, I am even more convinced: if a minister has allowed himself such qualifications, this is a much more serious basis for debate on no-confidence than a complete failure in sectoral policy. Your decision is different. This is a problem at the level of democratic sensitivity and of value choice, of value positioning. You have positioned yourself, ladies and gentlemen, all of you are creating a new dividing line not necessarily power. In this situation, what you gloatfully define as our weakness is our strength to assert equality and multiculturalism as imperatives of modern politics, because it is not the subject of the initiated vote of distrust that is in isolation, and the value is in isolation, just as the regression puts modernity into isolation very often, unfortunately. Today, flat anti-valued political thinking has isolated not a party, but its call for ethnic tolerance. And that's because populism has common characteristics, whether left or right. It turns out the enemy is the same, and is necessarily ethnically determined. Our goal was not the fall of the cabinet. We had no illusions that it would come to the Minister's resignation. We were even absolutely convinced that colleagues will confirm it from the meeting of the CSC and a parliamentary group that we will not get the support of the BSP. With these words began my analysis this Tuesday at the meeting. There is no way to mix the topic of hate language with another very important topic for the DPS. Our goal was to drop the statute of limitations for the crime rebirth process. Our goal was to check all available democratic resources and mobilize it for value debates on xenophobia and hate speech. Their natural place is parliament. There will obviously be none, not because of the isolation of the DPS, but because of the value isolation of the other parties. However, thanks to the DPS in the Bulgarian society, these debates have started. If it wasn't for us, the minister's words would be silenced and passed away, which is another sad proof of the level of democratic maturity and sensitivity. It certainly has a positive effect, however. First, the myth of BSP and DPS died as associated parties. [[Noise, excitement and laughter from GERB.]] Secondly, the language of hatred, not only because of the Prime Minister's recommendations, will become embarrassed, will come home, will temporarily hide by moving into a latent phase, but we already know that it exists and this is a characteristic of the Minister from the cabinet Borisov 2. And he, this hate language, will sooner or later explode, because the ugly political language of hatred is no more, no less material expression of ugly xenophobic thinking. And that's the problem. To combat it, only the words of a new quality of political dialogue and the need for a new national democratism will not suffice. Even less insufficient will be the shy words of condemnation of xenophobia and hate speech, because it is time for a real policy to prove these words. We have all the patience but also the inconclusiveness that the Creator has given us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. [[Reply.]] I think it's hard to accept a procedure like this. If you want, you can make a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[Reply.]] Thank you, Mr. Slavov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question to the Minister of Interior Mr. Vuchkov from the National Representative Ivan Stefanov Valkov regarding the current state of the Movement Safety Fund, managed by the Minister of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Valkov. [[The Presidents are changing.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u167	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In 2011, the Movement Safety Fund was established pursuant to § 1, para. 4 of the Additional Provisions of the Road Traffic Act. Under the legislation, the funds under this Fund are collected from fines made in the event of infringements established by technical means or technical systems. These funds can only be spent on technical means of traffic safety, as well as road traffic control. This was commissioned to be carried out and controlled by the Minister of Interior. Later, at the end of 2013, an amendment was made, with which this activity could only take place after a sanction of the Ministry of Finance, which is at present. My question to you, Minister, is: what are the funds available in the Fund at present, are funds spent for the period January-October 2014 and if they are spent, what are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u168	For an answer, the Minister of Interior Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valkov, in relation to your question, I am providing you with information about the period from the beginning of 2014 to 31 October 2014. The revenue received at the Fund's account was 5 million for the period from 1 January to 31 October 2014. 463 thousand. £243. It is noted that their size is three times lower than the same period of the previous year when they amounted to more than 15 million. lv. The main reason for this is the interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court of February 2014, by which we have largely limited the use of mobile cameras for an electronic ticket. I hope that after a careful reading of this interpretation decision with joint efforts of the lawyers, and not only of the lawyers of the National Assembly and the executive, we will overcome the shortcomings of the previous legislation and restore the operation of mobile cameras with an electronic ticket. The approved amount of funds from the Ministry of Finance, available to the Ministry of Interior for 2014, is up to 6 million. lv. It is important to clarify that the means of fines for infringements established by technical means and systems are entered into the budget account of the Ministry of Interior, but they may be ordered after approval of the Ministry of Finance. Activities for which funds can be spent are related to road traffic control and improving road safety. In § 1, para. 6 of the Road Traffic Act states that the excess at the end of the year over the expenditure of the Fund is granted for use for the same purposes in the following budgetary year and therefore the transitional balance as of 31 October 2014. It is similar to that of December 31st, because the other day we had a special meeting of the Commission on this issue is 30 million. 798 thousand. £798.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u170	The line, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u171	Thank you for your answer, Minister. As it became clear, funds were accumulated each year at nearly three times more than 2014 in the period 2012 - 2013. The main reason for the suspension of mobile cameras is the interpretation decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Transport Commission examined information from the DMV sector to your Ministry, which showed that in 2014 there were nearly 280 thousand violations less than the previous year, which is extremely disturbing against the backdrop of the increased victims, about 8% on the roads and serious accidents. In this regard, I would like to inform you, perhaps you also know, as there is an opinion of the Ministry of Interior that, with a group of MPs and other political forces, we have tabled a proposal to amend the Road Traffic Act, which we believe will restore the operation of mobile cameras. The texts shall be consistent with the recommendations of the Supreme Administrative Court. I think that could happen within about a month. My additional question to you is: is the Ministry of Interior ready, together with the State Traffic Safety Advisory Commission, to draw up a 2015 graphic plan that is related to the technical provision of traffic safety activities?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u172	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. For the doppelganger, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u173	Dear Mr. Valkov, I'm going to say a few things about your line. Road safety is the focus of our attention because, as I have repeatedly said, this is the face of the Bulgarian police. Citizens don't know much about operational services, they know less about DGBOP, they know less about the work of investigative police sometimes, but the traffic police all know because every hour, every minute of the day, citizens meet with Road Police. For this reason, we have taken a number of measures that you are familiar with. At least on the part of the Ministry of Interior to try to limit the mass corruption events that have eaten away trust in the system. It is really very important to increase road safety levels to restore the action of mobile cameras with an electronic ticket. We are working very well with the Commission, in the leadership of which you are involved. I believe that we can take into account the interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court's decision so that they can finally take effect, not stand in the warehouses, and eliminate the subjective element completely, especially with regard to the control of speed regimes. I guess for everyone it's clear that over 50% of the victims on the road are the result of speeding. And she was best controlled by these mobile cameras with an electronic ticket. If that happens, it will be the most important factor to increase road safety in 2015. Secondly, I am putting the new forms of control that we introduced in November and which we will improve with 120 cameras this year with 120 road vehicles that will videotape the activity of the police administrative inspection. I would also like to say that three days ago we held a meeting of the State Advisory Public Committee on Road Safety for 2015. I will provide you with written information on the planned and spent funds for this year because, unfortunately, last year, only about 300,000. lv. They were used by the Fund of Road Safety, against the backdrop of the ministry of finance's readiness to release 6 million. lv. from the accumulated thirty-several million leva in the Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u174	Thank you, Minister Vuchkov. Next, a question of MP Cornelia Ninova regarding another case of attack on an emergency doctor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u175	Mr. Minister, I have been elected MP from Sofia. There is the village of Vratsesh, Botevgrad municipality. This was the first case of assault on a doctor from your term now. This is Dr. Irena Marinova. Then the other attacks against representatives of Emergency Services took place. This topic took a different turn. We hear it's still being commented from different perspectives. But I'm specifically asking you today about the village of Vratschesh. I've been ordered by the people who live there from Botevgrad Municipality. What did you do on this case? Has an investigation been conducted? Did you get any good evidence? The perps know who they are. Has it come to handing over the paperwork to the D.A.? Do you know if any pretrial proceedings have been initiated? How is this case going about the investigation at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Ninova, in relation to the question asked about another case of an attack on an emergency doctor, I am giving you the following specific information. On 30 November 2014 in the Ministry of Interior Directorate Sofia, pre-trial proceedings No 659 have been initiated since 2014 according to the description of the police department "Botevgrad." Initially, the case was set up for a crime under art. 131, para. 1 of the Penal Code.. causing minor bodily harm to hooligan motives. That's how it was formed. After a report to the monitoring prosecutor from the District Prosecutor's Office, Botevgrad has been attracted as an indictee under art. 131, para. 2 of the Code of Penalty.. inflicting bodily harm on medical professionals in or on the occasion of the performance of a service or functions. On the part of the District Prosecutor's Office Botevgrad, a measure of procedural coercion was imposed on the person for 72 hours. By order of the court of the person, a permanent measure has been laid down for non-violation and detention. As of now, the investigation into pre-trial proceedings continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u178	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u179	Dear Minister, colleagues, indeed this issue has become a national issue because there are many cases in the country's territory, and for a long period of time. This gave reasons for different views. Words such as "xeno", "ethnic problem, in the last days and political problem. I believe that these are interpretations of the consequences of the cases of attacks on doctors from Emergency Aid, that these consequences are used for both political and sectoral health policies. I would like to offer you another point of view - not to fight the consequences of these cases, but to solve the problem. I think one way to solve the problem permanently and long-term is to quickly collect evidence, fast and effective sentences. Because the sense of impunity in the perpetrators is perhaps one of the main in these cases, on the other hand, the feeling in people of injustice that these remain unpunished. Very often people ask me, "What do you do to the MPs so that this doesn't happen? " So I will allow myself, although the few who are here know it, to read what the National Assembly has done on this issue. Dear citizens, the law says in the Penal Code that for causing bodily harm to a health care professional, the penalty is imprisonment of 5 to 15 years in the case of severe bodily harm, 3 to 10 years in the case of moderate bodily injury and 1 to 5 years in the case of minor bodily injury. Mr. Minister, you said that the case in Vratschesh was classified as a minor injury. That is to say, the perpetrators are given five years in prison. I assure you that if three such people are convicted, I say we condemn them, because this is a complex matter... of the Ministry of Interior, of the prosecution and of the court, if three people are effectively sentenced to 5, 10 or 15 years in prison for such an offence, the fourth will seriously consider whether to do so. I take the view that our real work should be focused here.......of exposing the perpetrators, gathering evidence, quick and effective sentences. Everything else is using these cases for political speaking, not to mention the more serious word "manipulation."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u180	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u181	Dear Mrs. Ninova, I fully share your opinion that not only in connection with the attacks on doctors, the most serious reaction to any form of crime is the entry into force of conviction. This also means quality gathering of evidence, good police work, prosecution, court. And, of course, good laws on the basis of which to step on their procedural activities. You're absolutely right about that. But whether the subsequent response of both police and justice is the deep cause of such attacks, including doctors, I am not very sure of the rightness of your conclusion. Maybe there are other, different maybe social reasons. Since this topic has been quite a ruckus in the last month and a half, I would like to say that the Ministry, which I am currently in charge, is taking very energetic measures against the really epidemic trend of attacking doctors. There's no reason to hide that there's such a problem. There is such a problem. Together with Minister Moskov a little more than a month ago, we signed a joint order with which we decentralized the solution of the problem. The regional chiefs of the medical centers held meetings with the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and decided specifically in what situation to act. We think the problems on the map of the country look different. As he explicitly said yesterday, there has been progress in this regard. Although there have been incidents since the last few days, the reported cases have declined significantly over the last month. This is how we will continue to act in the future, and together with the Ministry of Health. I would also like to declare to you that the Ministry of Interior does not keep statistics on alleged perpetrators of crimes on ethnic, religious and other grounds prohibited by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov concerning the funds received by the European Union in relation to the floods occurring in the country. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, as is known, in 2014 our country was hit by severe floods and natural disasters. They did a number of material damage and took human sacrifices. That is why we at Ataka are asking: what is the total value of the material damage caused by floods in 2014? What are the funds allocated and provided by the European Union to deal with the effects of the floods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u184	For an answer the Minister of Interior, Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Vladimirov, regarding the first question: on the total value of material damage from floods in 2014 there were estimates for two periods. The first is for the floods from 19 to 21 June in the Northeastern and North Central region, including the districts of Burgas, Kyustendil, Montana, Plovdiv, Sofia, Haskovo, Yambol and Kardzhali, and the damage amounts to 311 million. 328 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. euros are public, and are assessed as a major natural disaster. The second estimated period is from 31 July to 2 August in the Northwestern region and is classified as a regional natural disaster. The damage amounts to 79 million. Three hundred and 220 euros, of which 70 million are public. The total cost of the damage of the two indicated periods is 390 million. 672,000. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 548 thousand. 538 euros. With regard to the application and allocation of EU funds. By means of the Fund, Bulgaria has twice sent a request for financial assistance. The managing authority of the Operational Programme..Regional Development................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For the first flood period of June, the documents were sent to the European Commission on 25 August 2014 in the Directorate-General for Regional Policy. On 10 October 2014, the national authority received a formal notification from the Commission that Bulgaria's application for mobilisation of the Fund was approved and the proposed financial assistance amounted to 10 million. 542,000. 110 euros. The amount is calculated on the basis of a method previously established by Brussels, namely 2,5% of direct damage to the designated national disaster threshold plus 6% of direct damage to that threshold. The Council and the European Parliament are about to approve the proposed adjustments to the European Union budget, which must increase the proposed amounts so that they can be paid to Bulgaria. With regard to the damage caused by the floods in the Northwestern region at the end of July and the beginning of August 2014, a second application form has been prepared for the mobilisation of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u186	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Bulgarians, who are currently watching the direct broadcast of parliamentary control! Bulgaria has suffered a total damage of 390 million. EUR, notice, and the European Union only gives us 10 million. euros which have not yet been translated into the Bulgarian state. We ask why nearly 40 times is less than what we need as a country to cover the damage caused by the floods, in general, by natural disasters? Is this what you call solidarity or empathy, as you like to call it? We are going to say from "Attacka" because this is not empathy, these are handouts, planted financial crumbs that will be granted to us to deal with some minimal material damage. The next question we are going to ask from "Attack": why Bulgaria agrees with the amount in question 10 million. Euros? It's a sum that won't get us anywhere to cover the material damage. Since we are a member of the European Union, we must be equal, because every country in the European Union is equal. We must also receive equal assistance in every field in which we need it. It is clear that Bulgaria is tightening up again and is again considered a second-hand country in the European Union. Although the poorest country in the European Union, we must have dignity and tell the officials in the Union not only to dictate to our rulers from the quadruple coalition what to do, but also to allocate funds. You know that we from the Ataka in this case and not only begin and raise the debate why and how Bulgaria should remain in the European Union. Here, this is an example by which you can see that we are not equal, we are a side at the bottom of the ranking on each of the indicators. Last but not least, Minister, we at Ataka will continue to ask questions about the protection against accidents and disasters. And in this year, it is very important to know whether the Ministry of Interior has experts and methodologies for assessing the risk of protection from accidents and disasters and what has it provided for in the prevention of the phenomena in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u188	A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. The next question is from the MP Ilian Todorov about the terror of Bulgarian citizens in small towns.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u189	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! For years the Ministry of Interior has been an unwitting spectator of the constant thefts, murders, beatings, rapes and other criminal acts, which the Bulgarian citizens in small towns are subjected to every day. Old people have come to the absurd place to sleep under the same roof with their animals in order to protect them from theft. In a number of villages the Bulgarians are already forced to pay private security companies in order to protect their property and life. Although they pay taxes to the state, the Ministry of Interior has totally abdicated its functions in these settlements. We all become witnesses of another disgusting crime against elderly people on the part of brutal Gypsy shakes. People live in fear, stress and anxiety about their lives and property. In this regard, Minister, please answer me what specific actions will you take as Minister of the Interior to protect the life, health and property of the Bulgarian citizens in small settlements who are subjected to genocide by the violent unpunished Gypsy gangs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u190	For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, I am not going to read my previously prepared answer, but I will point out several highlights - four of which must be the basis for a systematic work on the problem that you have put, because with clicking the button the problem will not be eliminated. You defined it in one way, I wouldn't like it that way. It's about a conventional crime that we sometimes wrongly call domestic. These four accents are as follows: First, quality gathering of evidence. I just had a chance to say a few words about this. Although this is boring for the media and society, the key to success is right here. If investigators and other police officers collect quality evidence, only then will there be criminal penalties and prevention, ultimately, against potential perpetrators of crime. In this regard, I will pay particular attention to the preparation of the dominance apparatus at the Ministry of Interior, why it was shortened by about 300 people in a year and a half, what equipment it is equipped with and so on. Second, returning police from the border. This is an adventure that has also led to such a secondary effect that may even be the first most important. The province was depopulated by uniformed police. For this reason, this does not mean that we will not protect our borders, but we must do so in other ways and means, which we may be talking about another time. But those 900 policemen who were on the border every day are already on the country's precincts, and soon it will feel that way. Three, video surveillance. The other day I had the opportunity to sign an Agreement with Sofia Municipality. I'm going to visit Red Beach tomorrow. In different municipalities, video surveillance immediately reduces registered crime between 30 and 40%. This contains huge potential for development in Bulgaria. There are whole regions in which there are not in any municipality with video surveillance, which is absolutely unacceptable. Here is the cooperation of the municipal authorities and, of course, more uniformed police in small towns. It is therefore necessary to conduct some administrative reform in the Ministry of Interior, which we as a team have proposed and I hope that the next two weeks we will receive support from the National Assembly in order to reduce administration, to reduce the number not only of administration but also of non-administation in the major principal directorates in Sofia, where the offices are full of people, and to increase the number of uniformed staff, including small settlements. Nevertheless, I would like to share with you my concern about the cut-off funding of the Interior Ministry with the budget adopted for 2015 published in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u192	The line, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u193	Madam President, honourable Minister, colleagues, I partly hope that what you have said will indeed happen in order to resolve this extremely difficult problem. I have some doubts, and I'll tell you right away what direction. When we talk about quality gathering of evidence, and we have to admit that there is not even a police station in a number of settlements right now, I am giving you an example with the Vidin village of Novoseltsi, which has already hired private security to protect people's lives, houses and health. The village is from 1580 houses and nearly 6,000 people. I'll give you these things so you can see them. There's no policeman in this village. There's no police station. As in a number of other villages, the favorite village of Malko Gradishte also employs private guards to protect themselves, unknown for what reasons twice. One time they pay between five and ten leva to the private company to protect them, the second time they pay taxes to the budget, part of which then goes to the Ministry of Interior. Burgas village and so on. There are many cases. I hope you'll really take all the necessary steps. We at the attack will continue to monitor the development of this extremely difficult issue. Indeed, my request is as soon as possible to do everything possible to stop this absurdity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u194	Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? No. The next question is from the MP Atanas Atanasov about the state of the video surveillance system owned by the SDVR. We're listening to your question, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, recently in the media and in the public space has become extremely up-to-date theme of video surveillance cameras located at various points of the country, and the use of the results of this video surveillance to prevent or detect various offences, of course, and of crimes. In this regard, my question, Mr. Minister, is: what is the state of the video surveillance system, which is located in Sofia and is owned by the Sofia Directorate of Interior? Because the capital is the place where the most serious crimes are committed, of course, and other types of offences, respectively. This technique would be extremely useful, on the one hand, as prevention, as a preventive measure, and, on the other, as a means of collecting evidence, respectively, when crimes are committed, and in general, for the protection of public order. Because there have been various speculations in the public domain...................... isn't it working, isn't this system working, who is exploiting it and how are its results being used? It is very important that society and citizens receive accurate information on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u196	For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Atanasov! It coincided during the time, the question has long been asked, there has actually been a development since yesterday because we signed a special contract with the mayor of Sofia Municipality, but in a row. The CCTV system in Sofia Directorate of Interior has been in operation since the beginning of 2006. It was built on the basis of a contract between the Ministry of Interior and the Consortium of Lyreks Sectron, worth 2 million. 543 thousand. £980. and a subsequent agreement of 2007, including an additional extension of the system and guarantee service of a total of 9 million. Nine hundred and BGN 998. The extension of 299 thousand was realised in June 2008. 800 BGN, building a single integrated system for monitoring in real time and control of events, analysis and systematized processing of information. 195 crisis points for installation of surveillance cameras have been identified and their monitoring is carried out in the regional managements on whose territory the controlled areas are. Both stages of building the system are financed by funds of the Ministry of Interior and public procurement is awarded for their implementation. In accordance with the contracts concluded, the maintenance of the system was ensured by June 2011. The last contract with the Consortium is worth 599 thousand. BGN, which expired on 13 September 2013 its financial implementation was secured by the Road Safety Fund. At this time, the surveillance system in the capital is equipped with 280 cameras. The monitoring takes place mainly in the SDVR. The recorded violations under the Road Traffic Act are processed in the Road Police. In the system's capabilities is filming and recognizing vehicle registration plates, alerting for identification of a wanted vehicle number, shooting violations under the Road Traffic Act. The problems in the video surveillance system arise after September 2013 because after this period no maintenance is foreseen. The system is failing continuously and for 2014 its funding has not been included in the plans for the implementation of public procurement procedures. For this purpose, required documentation should have been prepared in 2013 but a delay of two months was found in the validation of the documents by Minister Jovchev, which practically stopped the possibility of launching a new procurement procedure and the future financing of the system. In 2013-2014 more than 15 letters were exchanged between different Directorates in the Ministry of Interior in order to resolve the problem without any result.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u198	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u199	Thank you, Madam President. I'm surprised what I heard, Mr. Secretary. How can such an extremely effective means of public order not provide for a mechanism for its operation? In this regard, will I ask you to answer me, is there any possibility that there is some kind of responsibility for this outrage? I am not surprised otherwise by what you are telling me, because during this period of time after September 2013, the Ministry of Interior was mainly committed to monitoring the protests, isolate certain individuals and then develop them as socially dangerous. This is something that we have yet to establish and become publicly aware of what developments are being conducted in this direction, at the same time an important tool that will be abandoned to protect public order. Otherwise, what you said at the beginning is very commendable, as it is about your joint actions with Sofia Municipality, because under the Local Government and Local Administration Act, the mayor of the respective municipality is responsible for security and public order in the territory of the municipality and joint actions must be taken between the Ministry and respectively the Sofia Municipality for the Protection of Public Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u200	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u201	I'm using the possibility of a duplicate for further information. This is indeed a very important issue. Mr. Atanasov knows it better than I do. This is the police surveillance system in Sofia, which can easily identify cars and persons and a number of traffic violations. Note that its functionality has gradually ceased to function because no amount of post-warranty support has been provided for the past two years. That's unacceptable. For this reason, we have taken a number of actions. Analyses show that only to restore the system will be needed between 500 and 800 thousand. lv. There is an additional complication here, Mr. Atanasov. I can present you with a letter from the consortium, and more precisely from one of the participants in the consortium. This is Lirex БГ, to the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Vasil Marinov of 13 January 2014, in which in practice one of the participants in the consortium says that he has the copyright for the system's management software: In relation to the above, we ask you to take urgent action in order to speed up the procedure for the award of subscription support to the system. As a person who runs a ministry that spends money on the Bulgarian taxpayer, I have no doubt, by the way, as a company, it has built a good system, I cannot afford to spend money on the Ministry of Interior without public procurement, and this letter probably wants to tell us. For this reason, I thank Mayor Fandakova for responding to the invitation to a meeting and after several weeks of work with lawyers and technical teams yesterday we signed an agreement between the Ministry of Interior and Sofia Municipality, which enabled the SVR to expand its scope of video surveillance, including the use of all cameras that are owned by the municipality and we have agreed on how the financing of the restoration of the now-deprived functionality of the system will take place, because not everyone has dropped out, the cameras of the SVR are working, who will pay support, service, after-the-war office is a joint activity, a common goal, a common public interest and the state in the face of the Ministry of Interior and the police, and the municipality. That is why I think that we should approach other municipal territories in the country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. Next, a question of the National Representative Krasimir Jankov concerning the distribution of the cases of investigative police officers. Please develop your question, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u203	Dear Madam President, Members of Parliament, Dear Minister! With the promulgation of the current Ministry of Interior Act on 27 June 2014 the occasional distribution of the cases of investigative police officers was introduced. The Law states: "According to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the distribution of pre-trial proceedings shall be carried out on the principle of random selection by electronic distribution according to the order of their entry. (2) The principle of random selection in the distribution of pre-trial proceedings shall be applied within the relevant unit. The random selection of an investigative body based on the electronic distribution of cases in the Ministry of Interior ensures impartiality and objectivity. However, this could not happen immediately, as it turned out that the Ministry of Interior was not fully ready and had to resolve a number of technical issues for the introduction of the random distribution and to obtain the necessary software. Therefore, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act state:........................................................................................... The provisions on the allocation of pre-trial proceedings on the principle of random selection by electronic allocation, according to the order of entry, shall apply after the necessary technical and organisational conditions have been established. Mr. Minister, how is the application of the Law structured as direct tasks and what resources will be put in place to secure and operate the system in order to introduce provisions on the distribution of pre-trial proceedings on the principle of random selection? Who will be responsible if the legal requirements are not met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u204	For an answer there is the word Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, I would say that the text you have read carefully from the new Ministry of Interior Act of 1 July 2014 is another non-working text in the Law. I assume you remember specifically the discussion on this matter? I was in it back then, too. There is no way to talk about violations of the law simply because, as you have read, in the Transitional and Final Regulations it was stated that the principle of accidental distribution will work in the Ministry of Interior when there are the necessary organisational and technical conditions for this. To have them, you need investment, you need money. They weren't read. The whole new Ministry of Interior Act in quotes from seven months ago was financially insecure, which is currently giving us huge, really huge care, because we are wondering how to support the interior ministry in view of the new regulations of seven months ago, which have been financially unsecured. Of course, this principle is very good. I'm his supporter. The point is that at the moment there is another principle under which specific investigative officers begin to work on specific pre-trial proceedings initiated by a prosecutor or initiated by any act by an investigator or any other police officer. I could tell you exactly how this is happening right now. I assume that's your question? In fact, I have answered your question as to when this principle of random selection will begin to apply when there is the necessary financial resources to be able to organizationally and technically secure it so that it does not stand as a naked declaration in the law. At present, the distribution is carried out by the chief investigative officers, heads of the Departments of the Ministry of Interior, as well as by senior investigative officers from the regional departments, and also as a large number of cases of pre-trial proceedings in the Ministry of Interior begin under art. 212, para. 2 of the Criminal Code This is mostly with an urgent investigative action protocol, the division of cases is in line with the pre-arranged duty schedules of investigating authorities, most often when visiting a crime scene. I say again: this principle is ideal, but if you give me a line, I will be able to say something further about it, because it seems to me that, apart from a provision in the Ministry of Interior Act, a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure should be foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u206	We're waiting for your cue, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u207	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you were able to deny the current law within two minutes and contradict each other! You're here for the enforcement of the law, as it is written down, and you're also explaining that that's not gonna happen! To the specific question you have not given any answer what is the resource to secure the functions of the system, which includes what resource you need. The question of why you didn't anticipate the funds is clearly pointless, since you don't want random selection in the distribution of cases in the pre-trial phase. That is clear from your answer. You're used to working differently. After all, you were Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Interior with Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov, which will be remembered as work, generally qualified by Bulgarian citizens as a pressure system. What as legislators we have tried to take into account the work of pre-trial proceedings to have impartiality, to have the opportunity for all Bulgarian citizens to increase their confidence in the Ministry of Interior, you deny it. It's your responsibility as political leadership. And that you will not introduce mechanisms by which Bulgarian citizens can trust the police, as impartiality and as a way of working, will be a clear problem of your government. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u208	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u209	Dear Mr. Yankov, no, I'm not used to working the way you describe. Among other things, the pre-trial proceedings were reformed during the period 2009 - 2013. It basically happened on my initiative, of course, with the work of an entire team and especially with the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and then the Attorney General. We have made it possible, within four years, to reduce the number of cases returned by the Ministry of Interior for investigation, to increase by several times the number of rapid and immediate proceedings and to minimize something that is still being observed. That's why you can't accuse me of working in any other way than what the laws require. This is always my professional biography. I will give priority to the work of the investigating police officers, to the entire Bulgarian police on the quality and timely collection of evidence. Otherwise, the principles you set in the new Ministry of Interior Act and which we are now experiencing on our backs, without being surprised at all, must tell you that they will neither scare us nor serve as an excuse. You have passed a law that is financially uninsured.. twice increased salaries for last year, but without financial justification. Please do not do as responsible politicians more such adventurous performances because you are putting the Ministry of Interior in a deficit of 213 million. lv. This year, our budget for salaries and social security is 936 million. BGN, and for capital expenditure, do you know how much it is?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u210	You're not answering the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u211	Twelve million leva. That's exactly what you're talking about. 12 million. lv. What should we pay with them first?! To secure the random selection of cases?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u212	You don't want to work like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u213	It's not that I don't want to, it's just that there's no technical and financial possibility. Among other things, I will also take the liberty of quoting the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which...................................................................................... 214, para. 1, the prosecutor's order also turns out to be the body to carry out the investigation. It's a text that hasn't changed yet. If we want to have a random distribution in the pre-trial phase, we need to change it for sure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will now hear the question of the MP Mr. Petar Slavov about the trend 2010 - 2014 on the number of administration in the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! During the presentation of the Reform Strategy in the Ministry of Interior at the beginning of this month you presented detailed data on the number of state and really employed in the Ministry of Interior system, including the administration. According to the data presented, about 35 thousand are officers performing police functions and fire and emergency safety functions. About 6600 people are the general administration and 4900 specialized administration of the Ministry of Interior. In general, the administration the way I think it is is about 11,500 people if my account is correct. The trend towards reducing the state of the Ministry of Interior officials is clear, with nearly 60 thousand people in 2010, as we heard at the presentation of the Strategy, it has fallen to about 49 thousand people at present. This is mainly at the expense of a reduction of the operational staff of the Ministry of Interior. At the same time, at least for me there remained incomplete data on administrative employees in the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the general and specialized administration. Do they also have the corresponding proportional reduction during that period and how much does it amount to? In this regard, Minister, my question to you is as follows, and I ask you to answer: what was the number of the administration of the General and Specialized Ministry in 2010? How much is she now? How did its number develop in the period 2010-2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u216	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, regarding the question you have asked about the development of the number of the general and specialized administration in the period 2010 - 2014 in the Ministry of Interior, I provide the following information. For 2010, the employees of specific activities are 9605; for administrative activities " 5117," total of 14 722 people. Either way, as I'm dividing them, it's about administration. For 2011, employees in specific administrative activities were 9585; administrative activities 2012 - specific administrative activities - 4560; administrative activities - 8619; total - 13 179. 2013 - specific administrative activities - 4982; administrative activities - 8003; total - 12 985. 2014 - specific administrative activities - 4935; administrative activities - 6668; total - 11 603. I would like to make it clear that, during the period cited, there was a different methodology for reporting specific administrative activities and if certain employees were registered as a general administration in 2011, some of the same employees could be kept specialised in subsequent years. From this data it is clear that among the employees in the administrative directorates of the Ministry of Interior for the last four years we have seen a trend of permanent decrease in numbers, which is, however, weaker than other departments of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my reply to you, as you have noted, is that there is a real decline in the number of administration, but it does not correspond to the decline in the ministry's operational employees. Even from the data you leaked, I wrote them down, and it seems to me that if I did write it down, in the specialized administration there was even a slight increase in 2013 with about 600-700 people. This, I suppose, is the mandate of the Oresharski office. In this regard, just as an appeal to you, I assume that you and the ministry's leadership will carry out a check to see whether people have been legally appointed to the administration during this period, respectively, whether the requirements of the law have been complied with. And if it turns out that there are actual violations and persons are illegally assigned to the ministry's system, to consider whether they should not be released and these stats should actually be used for operatives, for example it occurred to me for border police officers, where a while ago you pointed out to us that there was a shortage and there was actually a problem with fulfilling their duties on border guards, especially the most neural point on the border with Turkey and refugee pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u220	You'll answer her in the form of a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u221	Dear Mr. Slavov, I would like for the first time to share with you some information that we have never exported as a team in connection with administrative reform. The new Ministry of Interior Act entered into force on 1 July 2014. The Rules of Procedure were adopted immediately afterwards, which fixed a new state number of the Ministry of Interior. 500 people. Here, without the need to show unnecessary pride, for the first time in January 2010, we cleared the state number of the Ministry of Interior so that everyone can account for how many people work in the Ministry of Interior. By 2010, that was absolutely impossible, everything was classified. But what does it turn out to be? Six months of real-time state distribution in the Ministry of Interior is much more than the one fixed in the regulation. July, he fixed 49,000. 500, actually distributed over 51 grand. Someone had to make that change, get rid of that discrepancy. Six months no one's done it, and there's a lot of free stats. In the Ministry of Interior, to date, they actually receive salaries of 47 thousand. The guy. The state number under the law is 49,000. 500. Really distributed states are over 51,000. Why didn't anyone do that? I can't explain it. We're now doing a background check on this. The other day, I signed a letter that I want to reduce at least the unoccupied state so that we can have a match between the distributed state and the one that is entered into a legal standard adopted by the government. 500. Although, in fact, this year, which will be very difficult in terms of personnel development in the Ministry of Interior, we cannot pay wages to more than 46 The guy. There'll still be a reserve from an unoccupied state, but at least it'll be in accordance with the regulations. I am simply using reason to answer this question to call on you to support the administrative reform that we want to take place with the second reading of the Ministry of Interior Act, albeit aimed only at newly appointed employees after 1 April. I think we can explain both to the public and to the parliament and to the trade unions and to all employees in the Ministry of Interior that administration, accounting, international activity, lawyers, resources and so on should be subject not to first category work, as all police officers do, but to the Law on the Civil Service. This is what we want to do and hopefully happen as a legal standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Georgi Ivanov Andonov on a reduced establishment plan in the identity documents unit of the Ministry of Interior. Gotse Delchev. Here's your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister. My question is a continuation of the previous question by my colleague and what you gave as a duplicate of his replica. It is about a line which you as a Member of Parliament in the previous National Assembly have repeatedly raised and asked as a topic and as a question of the previous management of the Ministry of Interior. This is the topic related to the voluntary staff in the Ministry of Interior system or the so-called civil and labour servants assigned to the respective departments of the Ministry. In G.D. Gotse Delchev with the order of Minister Yovchev from June 2014 at the Unit for the issue and service of citizens in the Pasportna Service. The state is reduced from two units to one. The same office shall issue identification documents, international passports, driving licences and migration documents. The two employees were reassigned from a full state to four hours of work. In fact, an employee accepts documents, processes them, takes pictures, hands out the ready ID cards, actually works at two desks, which slows down and makes working with citizens harder and harder. "Passport Service" "Passport Service" "Passport Service" "Passport Service" "Passport Service" "Passport Service" "Passport Service"." Gotse Delchev serves four municipalities. These are the municipalities of Gotse Delchev, Hadjidimovo, Garmen and Satovcha with a population of over 75 thousand. citizens. At the same time in Blagoevgrad with a population of about 100 thousand. citizens in the same service work at nine desks 11 employees, given that the processing of documents for driving vehicles and service of acts of the DMV under the Road Traffic Act is broadcast on a separate desk, which is to the DMV. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: is there an opportunity to reveal additional state figures in the Office of the Ministry of Interior? Gotse Delchev? One thing I think is desired by the residents of the Gotsedelchev region and will enable the normal functioning of the action unit with the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u224	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andonov, the reduction of the state of the BDS unit (Bulgarian Identity Documents) at the Police Department. Gotse Delchev, has been carried out, you know very well, in May 2014 in the execution of an order of the Minister of Interior Mr. Yovchev at that time. It also relates to the lack of funds. I would say again, the double increase in wages last year led to a huge financial deficit in the Ministry of Interior. For example, the update of the budget for the Ministry of Interior in October was 125 million. BGN, which were immediately paid off. In addition, we had to give another 30 million exceptional subsidies at the end of December only to repay outstanding debts. The BDS to the SDVR and the regional directorates are subject to the director of the regional directorate and the decision for abbreviation was therefore taken by the management according to the order of Minister Jovchev. The order required cuts to be made, such as employees operating on a percentage of 85% for basic and 15% for ancillary activities. From the units BDS to the district governments are reduced numbers, all units remain one state number. Without sticking to the answer, I can tell you that it is very difficult at the moment that we can provide remuneration for new states, including at the Police Department. What I can do is to have a conversation with the Regional Director of the Ministry of Interior in Blagoevgrad to see if we can make any internal transfers with a view to the workload of the employees working under a contract of employment in the units of Bulgarian identity documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u226	Thank you, Mr. Vuchkov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I can't say I'm satisfied with your answer. I would say that the problem is not so much rooted in the possibility of securing remuneration for the individual employees, especially in the office of the police department. The problem, in my opinion, lies in the fact that the positions themselves are not evenly distributed throughout the Ministry of Interior Directorate in Blagoevgrad region. By the way, I would like to stress here that the same problem is being observed in Petrich. Very soon it will be placed on you by colleagues who had admissions in Petrich, because there from two states also make one at half-hours. The hypothesis that one of the employees is prevented from performing their duties on sick or normal annual leave and the desk is working half a day. The tails there are from dozens of citizens per day, going in the morning at 6:00 to keep order. My request to you is that you do your best if you can restructure these positions in the districts of Blagoevgrad, so that at least one full state can be secured in Gotse Delchev to serve the unit. Although it still won't satisfy the needs for normal work, but to some extent it will solve the problem. Once again, I ask you to pay attention from the stands to make a more serious commitment that this problem will soon be resolved. Because all of this builds up to me as a representative of the people and therefore to you as a representative of the executive power, and the purpose of the executive power is to work for the benefit of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u228	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. Thank you, Mr. Andonov. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Interior from the National Representative Krasimir Hristov Yankov regarding equipment of patrol cars with cameras and microphones. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, the Ministry of Interior announced that there will be 120 patrol cars equipped with 3 cameras and 2 wireless microphones, as of January 20, 2015. The main purpose of the new system is to visualize the relationships between examiners and checked, as well as control over the activities of the teams. In real time, online control will be possible, with employees at the various police districts able to check what action a team is doing and everything will be recorded. My specific question to you is: how much will the equipment cost and secure the work of the teams? Are you sure that the equipment you make on cars is complete with regard to the overall functionality, the interaction of the patrol officer with the information system to make reference to the vehicle and driver checked, as well as the input of data on possible violations, or is it only a video system to respect police officers for the proper performance of their duties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u230	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, all the actions that the Ministry of Interior has undertaken for the equipment of patrol cars are part of a strategy to improve the administrative service of citizens and, above all, the overall electronicisation of the traffic police activities. This, for its part, has the effect of limiting not complete eradication, but at least limiting corruption pressure. The guarantee of this innovation is based on a contract between a guarantee fund and a contractor company under which the Ministry of Interior is a recipient. The unit value of a single patrol car kit is 4,000. £700. with VAT. The amount needed to complete 120 cars, which are currently being delivered gradually, already has about 20 in the country's territory that are operating, is 564 thousand. lv. The set, as we presented it to the media two weeks ago, includes 3 cameras, 2 wireless microphones and a panic button. In accordance with the requirements of art. 165 of the Road Traffic Act, road traffic control personnel will stop for traffic control only within the scope of the cameras. Regarding your second question, I would like to remind you that even when I was elected Minister, I stressed that we would not allow PR shares. It should not be seen as such as the change introduced in road checks to comply with the provisions of the Road Traffic Act. The new measures are effective and will work for the benefit of the citizens, but with the same force they will provide normal working conditions, as well as protection of the employees themselves for their safety, and protection against unjustified accusations of taking bribes. And such cases may not only have, but even have been identified and established in the appropriate order. For the good functioning of the new system was developed and automated information system, video recording of road control, as well as the relevant rules of operation. The technical means of visible monitoring and recording, as well as audio recording, shall be activated automatically after the vehicle's engine is started and the recording shall be continuous until the work shift is completed. The overall activity of the orders is videotaped, and can also be monitored in real time. The road inspection shall start with a reference by means of a remote access workstation to a vehicle registration number, which shall be carried out by the service vehicle before contacting the driver. A reference shall then be made to the driver and passengers, which shall be carried out through the Automated Traffic Police Information System. The technical equipment installed in the cars are built-in GPS positioning, which allows patrol cars to be monitored in real time by the established center of the Security Police Directorate. At the same time, the collection of data received, combined with information from a remote access workstation and the Automated Traffic Police Information System, gives a comprehensive picture of the effectiveness of the orders, the detected violations and the attitude taken. These technical devices, which are installed on 120 car cameras, will happen within 3 months, will be marked with a video recording area and audio recording. All measures have been taken to protect the personal data processed in the system and these measures have been agreed with the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u232	A line? Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u233	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Minister, I did not hear: will an electronic ticket be issued? Let me repeat: will an electronic ticket be issued, or will it be written by patrol officers? Right now you're denying doing a PR operation, but that's exactly what I think you're doing. If we have to be correct, using one of the previous questions regarding stationary cameras, yes, this is part of a system I dare say, the time and numbers at your disposal have proved to reduce the distortions themselves. But the equipment of these cars with video cameras to monitor the work of the police officers themselves without being completed, without there being an emancipation of this whole process with an electronic ticket, as if it were leaving the human factor behind again. I think we'll have a video and a record of the policemen's work without being full of their overall work. Otherwise, it is as if you have assured us that you are convinced that the equipment that is being supplied is complete in terms of all the functionality of the system at the disposal of the Ministry of Interior. However, Dear Minister, you have just announced that there is money for your intention to have a video of the policemen's work. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and there is no money for other actions that will actually lead to increased confidence in the employees in the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior as a whole, although the legislator has created prerequisites for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u234	Would you like to use a line, Mr. Minister? No, thank you. I call on the Members of the National Assembly and the ministers responsible to respect the time provided for. We're running out of time already. We have too many questions. Minister Pavlova is already here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u235	I'll be in position in two minutes, Madam President. Dear Mr. Iankov, let me make some clarification, because I think you've mixed a lot of things that have nothing to do with each other. This video recording system is financed by a fund that is a guarantee fund, it is not the Ministry of Interior, which is filled in with 5% of the insurance contribution. This is a decision of the Financial Supervision Commission. There's a fund like that. And the Ministry of Interior is a beneficiary under a separate law of 5% of these contributions. We can't use them, for example, to finance the random distribution of the dominance. Do you understand? These are incomparable things. You also say: will there be mobile cameras for an electronic ticket? That's two different things. Mobile electronic ticket cameras will come into effect when the Road Traffic Act changes to comply with an interpretation by the Supreme Administrative Court a year ago. They are 148 and currently do not function well because this decision does not allow them. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] You asked if there would be an electronic ticket, so there would be, but by changing the law. But these 148 cameras have nothing to do with these 120 systems that we are now purchasing through this fund that I told you about and that we will take specific pictures of the administrative inspection carried out by the employees of the Ministry of Interior. [[Replicate from the place of the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] There will be no retreat from this reform of road control! I can promise you that because we're already seeing the first results. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] There's always distrust from the citizens at first. For every new minister, I hope it doesn't end this way. There's always resistance from the employees, but it's been functioning for two months now and there will be no retreat. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u236	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u237	This is a wide-ranging method, which continues to function? 120 patrols of the Ministry of Interior will shoot how police perform traffic control and finally 150 mobile cameras for electronic ticket will solve in 70% at least the problem of road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Question from the National Representative Plamen Tachev on the release of state officials from the Ministry of Interior. We're listening, Mr. Tachev, your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u239	Dear Madam President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Mr. Minister, my question to you is brief, but I think it is extremely relevant to the personnel situation in which the Ministry of Interior is currently in place. Mr. Vuchkov, how many civil servants of the Ministry of Interior were released during the first six months of 2014 at the initiative of the appointing authority? I hope, Mr Minister, that I will receive a comprehensive, numbers-backed response and facts so that it becomes clear to both myself and the honourable viewers what was the turnover of staff during this period of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u240	Thank you, Mr. Tachev. Mr. Minister, I expect a firm answer from you as the question has been raised.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u241	I'll try, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tachev, I will be very specific. For the first six months of 2014 at the initiative of the appointing authority, this is mostly the Minister, with an office terminated under the Ministry of Interior Act, 1181 civil servants were released. I repeat: for six months last year, they were released at the initiative of the appointing authority, not at the request of the employee, but before they were 60 years old Remember this number, please. For the whole year 2013, when the same provisions were applied, the releases at the request of the Minister were 165. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Make your own account and the conclusions for half a year released at the request of the head before they turn 60 years of age. Why am I sharing this? Because on 1 July, the new Ministry of Interior Act entered into force, which prohibited the Minister, in general, of the appointing authority, to release employees before they were 60 years old. I don't want that kind of authority. Frankly, I'm telling you this, but for six months just before you accept a new provision to fire over 1,100 civil servants and then ban the new guy from doing the same thing, what does it look like?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u242	Purge! Purge! Purge! Purge!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u243	This is a personnel pogrom in the interior ministry, carried out in the first half of 2014! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u244	The line is Mr. Tachev. You will not replicate, thank you. And the last question to Minister Vuchkov is from the MP Petar Slavov about the number of fixed cameras taken by the vehicle, cars with a special speeding regime, the number of electronic slips issued and the number of sanctions imposed with an electronic ticket of drivers of such cars for the period 2011 "2014."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Minister, my question to you is about a legislative initiative to refine the framework in this area. As you know, the current provision of art. 189, para. 6, p. 2 of the current Road Traffic Act provides for the automatic cancellation of electronic speeding tickets issued to special mode vehicles. At the same time, from the systematic and logical interpretation of art. Reg. 91, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act, it follows that the special mode of such a vehicle, which is a siren or a light signal, may not be included in its movement in cases where the vehicle does not perform a specific task. Here, I specify that such cars with special traffic regime, I do not only refer to police cars, they can also be the police, the NSO's and so on. There are a number of services and state institutions that can enjoy this privilege. Given that in recent years, there have been not one or two road accidents involving cars with special traffic regime, and often the victims have argued that the special regime has not been included, while the specialized car has been moving at a high speed, please, Dear Minister, to answer the following question: what is the number of vehicles taken with technical means, so-called stationary cameras, special mode vehicles, speeding, the number of electronic tickets issued and the number of penalties imposed on drivers of such vehicles for the period 2011? 2014?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u246	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, in response to your question This 6723 cases for this period. By the way, there are around 650,000 registered infringements. For 4587 cases of speeding were formed administrative files under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, but no administrative document was issued. An act or a ticket because it was evident that it was a fire truck or an ambulance at work. In the other cases, 2136 electronic tickets for imposing a fine were issued and further checks were cancelled in accordance with the text of the Road Traffic Act for the special regime, which you correctly quoted. The number of sanctions imposed on car drivers with special regime is 412. In many cases, motor vehicles were filmed by the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, the National Security Service, the Directorate General, the Emergency Medical Services, the General Directorate of Fire Safety and the Protection of the Population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u248	The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I listened carefully and recorded my data. The fact that there are indeed sanctioned cases in such situations comforts me somewhat that the law is applied in compliance with the spirit of the law, as there should not be people or institutions that are ex-lege to be untouchable. In this case, I will also quote one of your opinions on the office you are running, signed by the deputy prime minister, which is from 5 January 2014 precisely in relation to this legislative initiative that I have been talking about. It is also confirmed that this is what I am saying, namely that the authority of your office shares the interpretation of the law, that only in cases where such a vehicle is carrying out a task and the special regime is included should the electronic ticket of such an aid be cancelled. In this case, I hope that the controls will be strict and that an inspection will be carried out. You mentioned 1724 canceled the ticket after objections were submitted. An adequate check shall be carried out whether it was actually a work on a specific task with a special mode on it or if a vehicle was moving from point A to point B for any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u250	Are you going to use a hole? No. We should thank Minister Vuchkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control and move on to the answers of Minister Lilyana Pavlova. The first question is the MP Maya Manolova about the repair of the road Sofia "Kustendil" in the Konyavski prohod locality. We're listening, Mrs. Manolova. [[The Presidents are changing.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u251	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister! The most problematic section of the road Sofia "Kustendil" is the 10-km stretch of Konyavska mountain. I recall that this road is part of Transport Corridor No. 8, which connects Bulgaria, Macedonia, Albania and Italy. In 2006 under the government of Sergey Stanishev the road Kyustendil 18 million were provided. EUR without VAT, and in 2008, the renovation and rehabilitation of this road began in fact. In 2009, the repairs along the road reached the Konyavska Mountains, remaining to be applied the upper wearing layer and possibly to carry out additional lacquers on this section. Then the government of GERB stopped building the road, redirected the money to the route of Vladaya, and in the period 2009 - 2013 on the construction of the problem section of Konyavska mountain was done absolutely nothing. In 2013, the repair of this section was included in the Project "Transit Roads 5" - Lot 23B, and in May-June was conducted a procedure for selecting a contractor to build the repair of the roads included in this lot. However, the caretaker government came, then the government of GERB and again the repair of the 10-km section of Konyavska mountain was terminated. Therefore, my question to you is: what are the reasons to terminate the repair of this problem section and what are your intentions for its construction in the next year?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u252	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u253	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, the section we refer to, namely the Konyavska Pass, is a 10 km stretch, which undoubtedly needs to be rehabilitated. And not only that, but to rehabilitate this road section, it is necessary to make an extension of the road so that it meets the gauges of a transit road meeting the standards and requirements of a first-class road network. As you mentioned earlier, in 2014, namely on 28 April 2014, in order to be correct, the Road Agency announced a contract for the choice of contractor for the rehabilitation and execution of this section. A month later, namely May and June the same year, despite the announced order, the Road Agency realizes this is evident from the documentation which was reported to me to date that the so-called public procurement was declared on the basis of a technical project and documentation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And not only that, except that the project has not been updated, it does not at all provide for quantities of a quantitative-value account, road extension activities, activities related to bringing it into minimum required performance for a first-class route along such an important transit corridor. That is why the Agency is taking action on the update of the project, which, in order for it to be made available, provides for including activities related to the preparation of a detailed development plan, parcel plan and expropriation of the terrains. All of this needs to be taken into account. However, the order has been announced and has been announced by a technical project. In parallel, it is established by the Agency's staff that a requirement for designers is included in the announced order, which requirements to be met by the designers of the company he will perform. Here I pay attention to you are a lawyer and you know that when a project does not include design and only includes construction, there is no way to put requirements to the contractor to apply with certain designers, and it is with the competence and abilities to meet them. These are the two reasons why a decision was taken in September and this public procurement was terminated because it was declared unlawful without complying with the requirements of the law, included requirements for the contractors that are restrictive and proposed for implementation a project which is not relevant and for which no estrangement procedures have been carried out. This is the situation, this is the reason and a specific answer to the question why this contract was terminated. I can assure you that we have a commitment after the winter period and in this direction, as in the direction of all Republican roads, to review the condition and to make patching and rehabilitation of the areas that are in poor condition, especially further deteriorated after winter conditions. In parallel to this, of course, we will work to complete the project, the parcel plan, the necessary alienation procedures in order to have a quality, complete project with which to make a real reconstruction, rehabilitation and expansion of this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u254	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Manolova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm afraid the officials who have prepared your reply, I do not know whether the Ministry or the Road Agency have misled you because the information you provide me is not correct enough in my opinion. I say this because I also have answers that the Road Agency has given to the media from the region, which are interested in the repair of this section, and because I have documentation from the end of June and at this point in time the procedure for selecting a contractor has been in phase opening the tenders of the contractors. In other words, until June, the Road Agency had no concerns about the legality of the procedure and the state of the submitted technical projects. It is true that it is only about rehabilitating the road, namely laying the upper wearing layer in this area, because this is the biggest problem. In this 10-km section there are numerous serious traffic accidents due to the condition of the road and its upper layer. The extension of the road was not subject to this procedure, so alienation and other events in this case are not necessary. I think that at least putting and putting into a normal state this time with rehabilitation of the upper layer is enough at this stage to prevent the crashes that regularly occur there. This is an intensive road with intensive movement, which is the connection of Kyustendil with Sofia, the connection that cars and trucks make between Sofia, Kyustendil, Skopje, Tirana, Italy. It's busy enough, so I think it should be among the priorities of every government. Since at the moment "Transit Roads 5" continues to be open, this project will be operational by the end of 2016, I insist to the GERB government and to you to show will and include this section in the construction of this project, because otherwise Kyustendiltsi and the people who travel along this route will think that there is a personal attitude of GERB government towards this region. It happens that twice-initiated procedures are terminated when your government comes. I assure you this is important enough for the people of this region. Please do what is necessary to ensure national co-financing and include the repair of this time in your upcoming plans.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u256	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. The next question is from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov about the financial situation of the Water and Water and the high cost of drinking water. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question took two and a half months, of course, not your fault. So far, there are a lot of questions asked, but I think it's pretty up to date. The problem with the high cost of drinking water in Dobrichka district is very serious and is of great public importance. With an increase in the price of electricity, it is likely to offer SEWRC an increase in the price of drinking water, as it is produced through pumps. According to my fellow citizens, this is unacceptable. Currently, the price of drinking water is one of the highest in the country - BGN 2.84. for a cube. The reasons for this price are, in my opinion, the following. First, water losses are one of the highest, I would even say that the highest water loss is in Dobrich over 80%. Secondly, the large debt of the water and water water water, with more than 30 million. lv. to suppliers. Thirdly, irrecoverability of claims, of which seven million are due by Roma neighborhoods in the area, i.e. the same ones are irrecoverable. Fourth, the project with the name of the "Integrating project for improving the water sector in the town of Dobrich " under the Operational Programme "Environment" is worth 53 million. Nine hundred and ten thousand. By Decision No 148 of 5 March 2013 of the Council of Ministers decided to grant grants before the final decision approving the projects by the European Commission. If projects are not approved by the European Commission, the funds to be provided by the state budget in compliance with the requirements of the State Budget Act. Fifthly, in my opinion, administrative staff should be optimized. Madam Minister, will you take the necessary action on the above facts in order to prevent the increase in the price of drinking water? Will the integrated project for improvement of the water sector in Dobrich city under Operational Programme "Environment" be implemented by Decision No 148 of 5 March 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the topic of providing a good service for drinking water, water supply and sewerage of Dobrich is not only up-to-date. This is the area, as you said, with the largest losses of water.. more than 82%. This is the cause of the huge problems we have in this region. Last but not least, in addition to water losses due to lack of investment and improvement of the network, plumbing and sewerage of the area, we should not forget the fact that in Dobrich, as a region with inadequate conditions and infrastructure, we actually have the most expensive way of extracting this water. This undoubtedly leads to the fact that its price is the highest precisely for this reason, as the pumps with which this water needs to be pumped require huge amounts of electricity, beyond all the other problems that you mentioned. What we have at the moment as a situation in the water and water, on the one hand, are the huge accumulated debts, and on the other hand, on the basis of these accumulated debts, the company is in fact unable not only to make current payments under these obligations, but accumulates new ones due to a real free resource that this company can operate with. Not to mention investments at all. That is why I had many meetings within the months of November and December and entrusted the team there together with a team of colleagues from the Ministry to develop a stabilisation programme to include in themselves and what you are asking as a question proposals and measures for the optimization of the staff working in the company, on the one hand, and measures and repayment plans in respect of all the obligations of the company and the electricity distribution companies and other debtors of the company. Of course, parallel to this, measures related to increasing collection rates. There's a lot of uncollected claims. Despite everything from the data I have, although not definitive in this stabilisation plan, even if we implement all these measures, make repayments and deferred payments to receivables, optimize the structure and staff, we still do not have enough revenue to cover the daily and current costs. In parallel with this, I suppose you have read from the media too. Unfortunately, we were only informed by the media initially................................................................................................................. by the electricity from the electricity trader by the electricity trader by the electricity trader by the electricity trader from the electricity supplier, which has been selected from the free electricity market, which has been selected to the free electricity market, parallel and the electricity market to the electricity market to the electricity market to the electricity market. We had conversations with the energy regulator, with the water regulator, with the two companies providing this service. There are also identified measures to implement this programme for the implementation of the claims. However, we need fresh resources. Therefore, by restructuring this company, we will consider the option of restructuring it both in its capacity as a commercial company and as a company to apply for long-term credit from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with which we have negotiated and started this process. It is true that with a loan we have to cover loans, but this is the only chance to inject fresh resources into the system of this water supply. It's a critical situation. We're still working. The other thing. The overall integrated project for the water cycle of Dobrich, which was not financed by the municipality under the Environment Programme, no longer has time to be financed. The program's over. The problem of not implementing the project comes from the fact that the municipality had to co-finance 20 million. BGN because the project is worth more than 100 million. lv. This was also the main problem of the municipality where to provide this financial resource for co-financing. So, within the new programming period, we will be looking for ways to support the project. The water supply should be a beneficiary and the municipality should co-finance. It's very difficult. The challenge is great, but even if this integrated project is concerned, it will still not help much to improve the financial situation. On the contrary, it will deepen it because it needs even more investment from the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u260	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u261	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. In short, the situation is very critical. I don't know if you're aware of the extent to which I have information, the accounts of the VK are sealed. If you don't know, take a look.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u262	I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u263	I do not know how the company will function at this stage, given precisely these accumulated debts. Over 30 million, they may have reached about 40. I beg you as a minister, I insist that we do everything possible to keep the price of drinking water in Dobrich from being raised at this stage. Understand, this is a very serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The next question is from the MP Georgi Bojinov about the state of the road VRC 1015 Dragning. Gabare, municipality of Byala Slatina and its possible deletion from the transport scheme of the country. Here you are, dear Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u265	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! You know the situation. Two years ago we had a thorough debate, now just for clarity I will say that this stretch of five and a half kilometers is located on the territory of Byala Slatina municipality and is located on the link between Borovan municipalities and the Red coast and on to Lovech. I suggest we not discuss the issue of ownership, hence responsibility and the need to do something. The condition of the road is such that we either delete it so that we do not mislead people that it can be passed from there, or something urgent needs to be done. As a business person, I hope that in the time we have been waiting for this debate, you have sought and found some, albeit temporary, but very necessary solution. I ask the question briefly, I hope for a clear answer, so that there will be time for my colleague Antonov, because he is also waiting for such a bad day's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojinov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, with you two years ago from this very platform, in the same configuration we discussed this time and I will not repeat really many details, but let me say: this time it is municipal. For him API and the Ministry of Regional Development are not responsible, we do not even have the legal basis to deal with his rehabilitation. It's a municipal road. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u268	I made this arrangement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u269	What I have offered you, and I have told you, the only thing we can do to support this five-mile stretch is donate from the Road Agency frescoed material and other material that we have as a result of other ongoing repairs. Let's donate it to the municipality, and the municipality with its own resources........................ to hire workers with this material, which we will donate to the municipality....... frenched asphalt, other material............ so that the road can still be brought to some comparatively passable state. That's the best I can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u270	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bojinov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u271	That's something! Then the mayor was from one party, now he's from another party, I won't comment on them. I thank you for this offer! I suggest we do not comment here on the actions to be carried out. I hope the municipal leadership has heard your proposal. I believe you will. Let the municipal leadership do what depends on it and do something that is essential. I thank you for what you are willing to do, and I believe you will.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u272	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Antonov waited to ask his question. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, with a question to Minister Pavlova about the difficult state of road infrastructure from the Republican road network serving Levski Municipality, Pleven District.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Pavlova, honourable colleagues! It has really become clear that my question again concerns the serious condition of the Republican road network. It is clear that the funds do not reach particularly for smaller and medium-sized municipalities. It is also clear what is the state of the Republican road network, especially in Northern Bulgaria. In particular, my question concerns the Republican road network in the municipality of Levski, where several times last year the people of the municipality declared civil disobedience and repeatedly blocked three of the road sections. These are road III 301 Kozar "Belene" "Levski "Asenovtsi" "Haltnitsa", road III-303 Българеne "Levski" "City" "Boutovo" and road III-304 Българеne "Iztv" "Tranchevica" in the direction of Nikopol village of Bazova neighborhood. My specific question to you is: despite the difficult condition of the roads, not to describe them, they are in an extremely difficult state. Very often the movement on them is almost impenetrable, as is in many places. What are you going to do? It hasn't been a year and two years, it's more than that. The hope of the people who are currently following your response is precisely in the direction of gaining hope and, most importantly, to improve the state of this road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u274	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, undoubtedly, I agree with you, although with this sad finding that also in the municipality of Levski, both in Pleven and, unfortunately, in the territory of the whole country we have many roads, especially roads from the third-class Republican road network, which are in extremely poor condition. This is also the condition of these three third-class roads on the territory of Levski municipality. I certainly confirm this as a finding. It is not only bad, it does not meet the minimum requirements for road status of this class and a major repair is needed in order for them to be restored to a normal operational state. Unfortunately, however, the narrowed budgetary framework, the funds we have for current, major repairs, road rehabilitation are extremely limited. That's why we prioritize these funds, directing them first from restoring road surfaces where there is the greatest traffic, where there is the greatest movement, namely highways, first-class and second-class roads as far as we reach. This is also why all these years, as you say, it is because of this prioritization that our third-class roads are in the worst condition. Here I use the case to make the clarification that from a total of 20 thousand kilometers of all Republican roads, highways, first-class, second-class and third-class, 11 thousand of them, even more than 11 thousand, 11 700 kilometers, are precisely the third-class roads. They're in the worst condition. They need a perhaps targeted programme to start their recovery. This can happen when the budget allows it. This year's major renovation funds for all these 11 756 kilometers of third-class roads are a total of 5 million for the whole country, which means that from 17,700 we can rehabilitate 15 kilometers and we have to choose which 15 kilometers from the whole country we have to make major repairs. Those are the facts. Therefore, unfortunately, I cannot say that we are providing for a major repair of this road. What I can guarantee you is that after the winter season is over, when and after winter conditions and chemicals, and salt, lye and sand that are used to maintain the roads under winter conditions, further worsen the condition and open the holes, in April we will review the entire road network by regional road management and prioritize all those areas where we must at least make the holes patched up and bring them into relatively acceptable, acceptable, certainly not the best condition for the upcoming active road season from now on. This is what I can commit to at this stage within the framework of the budget that we have for 2015. I hope forward in time that we will have the opportunity to make major repairs both on this road, in fact on these three roads, and on many of the roads of the third-class Republican network. This is the truth, although it is certainly not the best one to share with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u276	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Of course, the answer is too worrying because it makes it clear that what is to happen this year will hardly be able to pay attention and funds to the roads that we commented on in Levski municipality. However, there is little hope that in this 5 million, respectively, in carrying out this audit with the directors of the county road departments, including here is my insistence. His opinion is the same as yours and mine that these three road sections are in extremely bad shape. They are distinguished from others and it is no accident that people come out and build barricades accordingly. I am convinced that if we do not calm them down and, in April, we do not achieve, although to some extent, a temporary solution to these issues, albeit with partial repairs to overcome the worst condition, these protests will be repeated again. In this direction was my proposal at second reading for the state budget, precisely to increase the budget in this direction for the roads of the Republican road network in Levski. Obviously, this was not accepted by the ruling majority, but our hope and our insistence are in this direction, when you look at this issue, to return to our concern for them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-23.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. With this, the questions to Minister Pavlova ended for today as we ran out of time. Next Friday, we'll be happy to meet her again. And thank you, colleagues, for your participation. We're adjourned. The next plenary session is on 28 January 2015, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
