ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. After the Conference of Presidents this morning, I propose to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly the following Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 11 to 13 November 2015: 1. Projects for decisions on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of 26 October 2015 to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desisslav Slavov Chukolov. Members of the National Assembly in the 43rd National Assembly, and drafts for decisions on the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria from 26 October 2015 to grant permissions for the detention of Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. Importer: The temporary commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov in the 43rd National Assembly. 2. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Resigned by MP Zdravko Dimitrov. 3. First vote on: Draft amendment and supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act 4. Projects for decisions on changes to Standing Committees. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 2 October 2015 in the first vote. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Stanislav Ivanov, Menda Stoyanova and Atanas Tashkov. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. [[General project, based on the laws adopted in the first vote on 2 October 2015 with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs and two bills of the Council of Ministers.]] 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 7 October 2015 in the first vote. 9. Second vote on the Bill on Accounting Importer: the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 2 October 2015 in the first vote. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act Importer: The Council of Ministers. Adopted on 6 October 2015 in the first vote. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. A bill for ratification of the Agreement on a European Cooperation State between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Space Agency. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the usual day of Friday, at the usual time of beginning "11.00." Please vote. Vote 163 MPs: 153 against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions on the time from 4 to 10 November 2015 as follows: - Bill amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. Importers: Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers: Methodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead; - Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Importer: Mikhail Mikov; - Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Importer: Mikhail Mikov; - A draft decision on changes in the composition of the Committee on Health. Importer: Mikhail Mikov; - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Protection of Competition. Importers: Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Election Code. Importers: Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs; - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Stanislav Ivanov, Menda Stoyanova and Atanas Tashkov. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Foreign Policy; - Bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. And another message. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on information on the consumer surveillance conducted in October 2015. Colleagues, in relation to the decisions of the National Assembly on the release of MPs elected in the Forty-third National Assembly, subsequently elected mayors of municipalities, have received decisions from the Central Election Commission. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 2900-NS Sofia, November 5, 2015 on the announcement of Mihail Parashkev Todorov as MP in the 18th Election Region of Razgrad With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-18 of 5 November 2015 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 5 November 2015 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Valentin Stefanov Vassilev as a MP from the 18th election district of Razgrad, erected from the list of political party "GERB" in the 43rd National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 18th election district of Razgrad, Mikhail Parashkev Todorov,..., from the list of political party GERB in the 43rd National Assembly. The next decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 2914 NS Sofia, November 6, 2015 on the announcement of Daniela Yordanova Panayotova as MP in the Third Election Region With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-23 of 6 November 2015 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 6 November 2015 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Krasimira Peneva Anastasova as a MP from the Third Election Region of Varna, raised from the list of political party "GERB" in the 43rd National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the Third Election Region of Varna, Daniela Yordanova Panayotova, EGN..., from the list of political party GERB in the 43rd National Assembly. Next. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 2923-NS Sofia, November 9, 2015 on the declaration of Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova as MP in the Twenty-eighth Election Region With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-25 of 6 November 2015 of the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 6 November 2015 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Darin Ivanov Dimitrov as a MP from the Twenty-eighth Election Region of Targovishtki, erected from the list of political party "GERB" in the 43rd National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to Decision No 2922-NS of 9 November 2015 of the Central Election Commission of the CEC HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 43rd National Assembly of the Twenty-eighth Election Region of Targovishtki, Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova, EGN..., from the list of political party. I have only three decisions, and I have been informed that more are the MPs who should take an oath. Not all decisions have been implemented. Only three of the seven decisions I've read. [[The elected Members shall enter the Chamber.]] There is a decision No 2914-NS of 6 November concerning the announcement of Yordan Georgiev Andonov as a Member of Parliament in the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad. The motives are the same. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the First Election Region of Blagoevgrad, Yordan Georgiev Andonov, EGN..., from the list of political party GERB. Decision No 2916-NS of 6 November 2015 on the declaration of Ivan Nikolov Mihovski as MP in the Eleventh Election Region of Loveshki. The motives are the same. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the Eleventh Election Region of Loveski, Ivan Nikolov Mihovski, from the list of political party GERB. Decision No 2920-NC of 9 November 2015: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 43rd National Assembly of the Fourteenth Election Region of Pernishki, Irena Lyubenova Sokolova, EGN..., from the list of political party. The last Decision No 2919-NS of 9 November 2015: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code relating to CEC Decision No 2918-NS of 9 November 2015 HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 43rd National Assembly of the Thirtyth Election Region of Shoumenski, Stefan Staynov Zhelev, from the list of political party Now we're ready to take an oath. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u2	DANIELA PANAYOTOVA, Venka STOYANOVA, JORDAN ANDONOV, Ivan MIHOVSKI, IRENA SOKOVA, STEPHAN JELEV: I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u3	Congratulations, everyone! Before we move on to the next point, a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that point six of the weekly programme will first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees should be removed from the weekly programme for the following reasons. This bill concerns entirely taxi transport in the State, makes two other amendments to the Road Transport Act and is not considered in the Transport Commission. As expected, this week will not be considered either. Therefore, I think it is not right for plenary to deal with the submitted draft law before it is examined in the Transport Commission, which is responsible for these issues. By the way, the Law itself creates a lot of problems both in the industry and in society. I suggest you drop out of the weekly program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u5	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 186 MPs: for 93, against 58, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. [[Radio, lines from the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Grozdan Karadjov.]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u6	Madam President, I propose a re-voting in favour of my colleague Svilenski, as well as in support of colleagues from the Parliamentary Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. It is really not right that we notice this very rarely, but it is indeed a phenomenon, with the change of a law, with transitional and final provisions to change a basic law. In the case of a change in tax law, we are making major changes to the Law on Road Transport so, by the way, in twelve to five, without being examined by the competent Transport Commission. And it changes things that were changed a month ago. I sincerely hope that the people who are importers, by signing this bill, have made some mistake because it is clear that they have been given something that they have only signed and imported. I sincerely hope they've allowed one, so I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u7	Revoting! They voted 188 MPs: 91, against 50, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mikov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u8	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is related to the Official Journal, as an official edition of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yesterday, I made a reference to the award decree of the Ecumenical Patriarch with the Order of the Old Mountains has not yet been published! There is no information on the President's page, this decree has not been made public, nor at the Council of Ministers's meeting at which meeting a decision has been made to award the Ecumenical Patriarch with this order! I ask you, as President of the National Assembly, not to publish the decree until the full faction of the award of the Order of the Old Mountains has been completed in this case. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u9	Mr. Mikov, I join your desire to know whether the procedure has been carried out and how this has been done. I'll make sure the MPs have information. But you know very well that if the Presidential Decree enters the Official Gazette, the President will not have to stop its promulgation. [[BSP LB.]] I will be familiar with the procedure for whether there is such a solution and how this decree came about. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to propose that point six of the Programme be point eleventh, arguing with the following. The vote on this point concerns mainly the Car Transport Act. Although it is an operative, i.e. an additional one, the Transport Commission is about to see it this afternoon. I therefore refer, especially to my colleagues from the DPS: please give the Commission the opportunity to rule, because if this Bill goes on at first reading today, you will not hear the opinion of the portfolio committee. Most of the proposals are just disguised as tax proposals, but these are actually proposals under the Road Transport Act. Colleagues, I hope for understanding and I address you as the President of this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u11	Is there a reverse opinion? Mrs. Stoyanova. I do not see how today we will get to this point in plenary. Given that the Commission is in the afternoon, we will have her report available.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! The Transport Commission can look at its Bill.. There are no problems. However, I would like to stress that what the people's representative just said is not true that other, more important changes are actually being made under the disguise of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing to amend the Local Taxes and Fees Act. This proposal includes the taxation of the fee activity with a tax that is a one-off, patent tax and which now replaces the current tax on profits or income tax on individuals, depending on what the carrier is. So any remaining insinuations are insinuations! The Transport Committee has time to do its job and the plenary will decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u13	I put to the vote the procedural proposal made, point six of the Programme, to become point eleven, with the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to a specific agreement falling one point behind. Isn't that right? Renumber them. [[RB lines.]] Yeah, the two of them swap. [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] There was no such proposal. They said to be the eleventh point and the others are renumbered so I understood it. I understand correctly, Mr. Karadjov. Voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: 80 against 50, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't understand why this tribune makes suggestions that aren't true! The proposed Bill changes the Law on Road Transport, including with regard to carriers. An authorized person, something that we have already accepted, is past two readings in the Law, must enter into force on the 20th, and without being discussed at all in the Transport Commission! We continue to insist that there is nothing there that relates to this Law. In my opinion, this is an absolute deception of the House, an absolute attempt to pass lobbyist texts within the Law. If you want to be accomplices in this thing [[GERB raging and noise]] Vote one more time against!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u15	It's a re-vote. They voted 171 MPs: 79, against 50, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, point 1 of the weekly programme shall be: PROJECTS FOR RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MAJOR PROCURATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF 26 OCTOBER 2015 TO GIVE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR REFUNDING THE BENEFICIARY AGAINST A POLLUTIONAL NIKOLOV WITH A LEADER AND A NUCLEAR GLAV CHUKOLOV, PEOPLE'S PRESENTATIVES IN THE 43rd NATIONAL RESTRUCTION, AND PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS ON THE REQUESTS OF THE GRAND PROCUROR OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA OF 26 OCTOBER 2015 FOR THE PROCUREMENT OF PROCUREMENTS FOR THE DEFECTION OF A POLICE WITH A LEADHEROVAL VOVAL CHUKOLOV, GRAND PREPS IN THE 43rd ARETATION. I would like to inform you that by letters with incoming numbers 554-00-697 and 554-00-698 of 11 November 2015, brought to the Ministry at 8:40 and 8:41 respectively, the MPs Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov give their written consent to the waiver of their parliamentary immunity. I'm going to read their applications literally: "Admission' By Volen Nikolov Siderov Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 134, para. 4 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I declare my written consent to the waiver of my parliamentary immunity on the occasion of a request by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria No 527-00-7 of 26 October 2015, proposing to the National Assembly to grant permission to initiate criminal proceedings against me because of my capacity as MP in the 43rd National Assembly, in pre-trial proceedings No 225 CIA 2926 of 2015 according to the description of 01 RDVR, prosecutor's file No 18374 of 2015 on the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for crimes committed under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 143, para. 1, proposal 3, alternative 1 of the Criminal Code. "Signature "Volen Siderov." And, accordingly, "Admission' By Desislaw Slavov Chukolov "Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 134, para. 4 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I declare my written consent to the waiver of my parliamentary immunity on the occasion of a request by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015, proposing to the National Assembly to grant permission to initiate criminal proceedings against me because of my capacity as MP in the 43rd National Assembly, in pre-trial proceedings No 225 CIA 2926 of 2015 according to the description of 01 РОДРСВ, prosecutorial file No 18374 of 2015 on the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for a crime committed under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. I therefore ask the Commission's report not to present that part concerning the Prosecutor General's requests for permissions to engage in criminal prosecutions against the two Members of Parliament, as well as the draft decisions in this part, but to report only the requests of the Prosecutor General and the opinion of the Commission, as well as the draft decision on the request for permission to detain the Members of the National Assembly. We're listening, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In view of the dynamics of the situation, I will try to present you with a modified report that is more appropriate to the present. ♪ I can't believe on requests by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions and to hold against Members of the National Assembly Volen Nikolov Siderov. No 527-00-7 of 26 October 2015 and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015 The interim committee, established by a decision of the National Assembly of 28 October 2015, held a closed session on 3 October 2015, at which it examined the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. With request in. No 527-00-7 of 26 October 2015 the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to be granted permission to provoke criminal prosecution against Volen Nikolov Siderov, People's Representative in the 43rd National Assembly, in pre-trial proceedings No 225 CIA 2926 of 2015 according to the description of 01 RDVR, prosecutor's file No 18374 of 2015 on the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for crimes committed by him under art. 325, para. 2 in relation to para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 143, para. 1, proposal 3, alternative 1 of the Criminal Code, as well as authorisation for its detention in this criminal proceedings. With request in. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015 the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to be granted permission to provoke prosecution against Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - MP in the 43rd National Assembly, in pre-trial proceedings No 225 CEM 2926/2015 according to the description of 01 RUP SDVR, file No 18374/2015, according to the description of the SGP, for a crime committed by him under art. 325, para. 2, c. ) (a.k.a. 1 c. by art. 20, para. 2, c. ) (a.k.a. 1 of the Penal Code, as well as authorisation for its detention in this criminal proceedings. According to the Prosecutor General from the evidence collected so far (shows of witnesses, recognition of persons, protocols for the certification of persons and others) it is necessary to conclude that Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov have carried out the actions described in the two requests and have committed inappropriate acts, grossly violating public order and expressing clear disrespect to society, and the act of their content is characterized by exceptional audacity. Moreover, Siderov forced someone else to suffer something against his will, using this power. The temporary committee decided to hear the MPs Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, but they did not appear at the meeting. People's representative Yavor Notev noted that the MPs Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov will not take advantage of the opportunity to be heard and clarified that the Temporary Commission can only make a proposal for a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. He pointed out that the request should be carefully examined and the Commission should build a reasoned proposal on it, but due to the narrowed scope of the Commission, although the evidence deserves attention, they will not be discussed. He stressed that the rating of the National Assembly should not be raised with repression. It also opposed the examination of the request before the expiry of the 14-day period provided for in art. 134, para. Five of the subs. He also drew attention to the grounds contained in the request - an accusation on art. 325 of the Penal Code, stressing that the new moment in this request is the coercion that is being punished more severely. He pointed out that there is a clear contradiction between what the prosecutor found and what Volen Siderov did and said that the prosecution should be disciplined for precision in making requests. People's representative Chetin Kazak said that a positive vote for detention does not mean automatic detention of MPs, but only the waiver of immunity and the possibility for competent authorities to take action on detention. People's representative Stefan Kenov pointed out that the Temporary Commission is not a body for the judgment of the guilty, nor a judicial body, but only must decide whether to allow the arousal of prosecution and detention. People's representative Chavdar Georgiev pointed out that this is about the withdrawal of immunity, which is given as a certain protection, as each MP is part of a collective body. Point out that the Prosecutor General's request for detention is not in line with the Constitution, the reasons for the measure are insufficient and the objective is not justified. People's representative Grozdan Karadjov stressed that the Temporary Committee is meeting to determine whether the MPs have acted - either ideantal or political, for which they should be silenced, whether they have committed political activity and whether their immunity should be maintained, or whether they are actions that have frightened the whole country and have tarnished the names of all MPs. He said that the Commission, by ruling on the requests, answered the question of how the people's representative behaved in order to have a request from the Prosecutor General. National Representative Desislava Atanasova noted that according to art. 6, para. 2 of the Constitution all people are equal before the Law, and no restrictions are allowed, but art. 69 and 70 of the Constitution introduce separate privileges, but both institutions cannot be opposed to each other. The decision that the Temporary Commission may take is whether to grant permission to arouse prosecution and detention. After considering the Attorney General's demands, I'm in. No 527-00-7 of 26 October 2015 and n.e.c. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015, and the data attached thereto, the Temporary Commission shall propose to the National Assembly: To grant permission to detain the Member of the National Assembly Volen Nikolov Siderov at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ic. No 527-00-7 of 26 October This Decision shall The opinion was adopted by 10 votes............................................ and 3 votes.................................................................................. and 3 To give permission for the detention of the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-00-8 of 26 October This Decision shall The opinion was adopted by 10 votes............................................ and 3 votes.................................................................................. and 3 The Temporary Commission shall also propose draft decisions: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 527-00-7 of 26 October 2015 to authorise the detention of Volen Nikolov Siderov, MP in the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1, 5 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission for the detention of the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-07 of 26 October 2015 ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the request of the Attorney General with an I.V. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015 authorising the detention of Desislaw Slavov Chukolov, MP in the 43rd National Assembly on the grounds of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 134, para. 1, 5 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission to detain the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, ov. No 527-08 of 26 October 2015 "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u17	Honourable Members, the proceedings shall take place under the rules of art. 134, para. 8 in relation to the preceding paragraphs 1 to 7. By argument of para. 5 Members of the National Assembly may be heard within 10 minutes. for every single one of them. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be very brief. You have already understood that today we submitted with colleague Desislav Chukolov an application for voluntary waiver of immunity to begin criminal proceedings. It remains for you in this Chamber to decide whether to grant permission to be detained, as the Attorney General has requested. In this regard, I would like to tell you that I have in no way, nor my colleague Chukolov, have we been hiding from justice, nor are we planning to do so. In this sense, the request of the Attorney General essentially has no other function, would have only a repressive function, since I have proved so far in practice that I appear when justice wants this where it needs to be. Even yesterday, even though I was a member of the National Security Advisory Council, I was in the Investigation Service. So I'm showing in every way that I'm not running from justice, including taking my own protection. I trust you will vote wisely and balancedly. I would like to take this opportunity to apologize to Mr. Glauchev, Dessislava Atanasova and the colleagues who received phone calls, although I have no direct contact with the people who called, but I have been subject to both threats and phone calls. I know this isn't pleasant, it doesn't make good feelings, so I'm asking you to accept the apology on behalf of the people who called, even though we have no direct contact with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u19	Mr. Chukolov? You will not take this opportunity to be heard. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to take part in it? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. Colleagues, please make room for Mr. Bayraktarov on the path to reach the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I think it's appropriate to clarify what legal action is throughout this procedure. And because I see that there is some strange hesitation between the MPs, and just a few days ago, for example, you, Madam President, raised the issue of cancellation of art. 70 of the Constitution, which regulates precisely the immunity of the Members of the National Assembly, is the following question. Should a Member of the National Assembly, no matter who he is, who has committed a series of actions under the conditions of relapse, have more evidence that these Members of the National Assembly have sought witnesses to influence it in any way by force, by beating it, by advising it in some strange way, so as not to testify to it, to impose the so-called "invitational detention" on him? Here I open the clamp that this measure can only be requested by the prosecutor. Once these MPs have been given a decision to grant their immunity, the prosecution has already imposed a measure................................................................................................. Here, however, we find ourselves in a state of relapse. Re-c-wild, e.g. repeating the same actions that are qualified in art. 325, para. 2 of the Penal Code in a particularly daring and cynical way against society. I think that the National Assembly and all the MPs, given that in this case the two MPs themselves requested that all these measures be implemented this morning by the Prosecutor's Office against them, we must respect their demands and vote on the prosecution to have this legal opportunity in order not to have any effect on witnesses. Whether she decides to impose such a measure or not, it is her right. Otherwise, once again, we will find ourselves in a position of certain people who are used in certain cases to carry out political orders, in this case a Golden Finger, in this case, in certain days that are so emblematic, for example on the night of the election day to carry out certain actions, to again fall under some strange political protection. That is why I call on you, colleagues, to support the Commission's decision by voting unanimously on the issue, otherwise I will be under the impression, especially to the largest group of GERB, that again Boyko has ordered them: I hope that this will not happen and I will not be refuted by your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u21	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Radan Kanev, then Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! The group of the Reform bloc will support the request to be allowed to be held in custody as it has been before the National Assembly, and we will do so with the argument that we must give the Bulgarian citizens a clear sign of equality before the law. We have repeatedly said that the worst crisis the Bulgarian society is struggling with is the crisis of confidence in society. The crisis of trust has many levels, but one of the most important and one of the most public is the lack of trust of Bulgarian citizens, of our voters to their chosen ones, based on the mass belief that we behave as another category of people, that we vote laws that make us another category of people. It is not a coincidence that the expression "the political class" is used so often, that is to say, the understanding that people once got into politics, especially in the highest authority of the government, the authorities of the Republic, behave as people privileged, enjoy privileges and are essentially impunity. This is the most common expression: impunity of the political class. I would like to stress that we are neither the prosecution nor the court nor we are pressing charges, nor are we imposing a measure of non-violence, nor are we conducting an investigation, nor are we imposing judgments, whether they are judgmental or acquittal. Whether Mr. Siderov is guilty of hooliganism, the last of us can judge and must judge. However, we have a request to allow the prosecution to assess whether the measure of non-retribution is required in custody. If we reject this request of the Prosecutor's Office, we will confirm the Bulgarian citizens' belief that the MPs are impunity, that there is a political class and that the Raven's crow's eye does not draw. Conversely, if we respect the prosecution's request, we transfer all responsibility to where it should be. The Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office must assess whether there are grounds for this most serious measure of non-violence that is not our assessment in this Chamber, it is not our competence to request this measure from the court and to judge it. By the way, if this measure is imposed and it turns out that it has been unlawfully imposed, Mr. Siderov will be another Bulgarian citizen who will condemn Bulgaria in Strasbourg for being subject to an unfair measure of integrity, I say again, if the court so decides. And a few more words about the particular act that we are being asked for this permission. Colleagues, I ask that we all bear in mind that under the Bulgarian Penal Code, hooliganism is a serious crime, but the more severe...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u23	What's the small one?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u24	Small-time hooliganism is not a crime at all. Bullying is a serious crime by the rules of the Penal Code. But it's so much harder if it's done by a public figure. Behind the word huliganism, which we use for everything in our daily language, we should not ignore the fact that it is a serious violation of public order. It was done by a teenager. It's not reproachable. A representative, once again I say, to the highest, the supreme authority in Bulgaria, it becomes so much more severe and re-confidence in people that there is impunity and different standards for the so-called political class. At least a representative of the Bulgarian Parliament can afford a hooligan event. Therefore, the full freedom and opportunity of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the Bulgarian Court of Justice should be given to assess whether there is such an event carried out by a Bulgarian MP and to impose, if there is, the appropriate punishment, which will be quite severe because of the characteristics of the child, if I can predict the verdict, because the public burden of the child in hooliganism is a very important factor on the subjective side of the crime. With purely legal arguments, but also with a sufficient dose of humility before the Bulgarian citizens and the competent authorities of justice we will vote to allow the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office to carry out its judgment and the Bulgarian Court of Justice to exercise its discretion freely. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u25	The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kanev, you are bringing us into a discussion that has ended and permission to conduct criminal proceedings with regard to Mr. Siderov is granted the last part of your speech. This topic is not relevant to today's discussion. You say the biggest crisis of trust is. It will continue to be because the theatre from VITIS is being transferred to the National Assembly today. Members of the National Assembly are not impunity and this became clear with the vote on the issue of authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings, only that the theatre, which is developing today with regard to the measure of inviolation, is part of the attempt to transfer the theatre and to close the other major problems of political transactions. Our parliamentary group, you know, did not support this request, although we voted to pursue criminal proceedings. This measure is absolutely unnecessary and Bulgarian citizens should know that in essence Mr. Siderov was detained and there is no obstacle when there is a serious crime. In essence, he has been detained and the simple question arises: why hasn't the President of the National Assembly been informed afterwards; why hasn't he acted under Constitution and by law so as not to create prerequisites for a broad public discussion that makes sense to change the Constitution, or does it not? This is the truth about the Bulgarian citizens and there is no obstacle to every MP when he is detained, a serious crime has been found, to be detained and to inform the President of the National Assembly. And the crime was found by many policemen, even by the Minister of Interior, and now Parliament is put into the next act of this theater by election night. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u27	Second line? A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u28	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Mikov, first of all, I think it is really important that we distinguish between police detention and a non-detention measure, because we are now making this difference with this vote and it does not matter whether police detention has taken place in the past or not. Secondly, I fear that the theatre moved on 5 October 2014 at the will of the Bulgarian citizens in this Chamber and we have observed it for one year by certain colleagues. But they are here by the will of the Bulgarian citizens and it is not our business whether people who behave in this way can be MPs or not. They're here at the will of the sovereign, so the theater goes away all the time, but it goes by the power of the votes received. We are talking about something quite different here: who will assess whether there are grounds for the measure? The most simple reasons are the danger of the child hiding and the danger of the child committing another serious crime. If it were to judge Parliament, I would share my fears that another manifestation of hooliganism by the same actor is quite possible because we have witnessed very similar manifestations, and vice versa, I would consider that the chance of a public figure of this caliber hiding is very modest. However, it is not our job to assess whether there are grounds for imposing a certain measure of non-violence, because we are not a convention, we are not a revolutionary tribunal, we are a parliament, and the only thing we are doing today is deciding whether or not we will allow the competent authority to make the assessment for which it is competent. I call on us not to have the self-esteem of a judicial authority, which we are not, and which would confirm both the belief that a crow's crow's eye does not pull out a crow's eye, and the belief that the people gathered in this room are considered omnipotent. They're not! We're not! There is a separation of authorities, and what we need to do is simply give the prosecution and subsequently to the court as bodies of the independent judiciary the right to assess by law what is the measure of non-violation of two MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u29	Any other MPs? Mr. Notev had given a statement request and Mr. Emil Dimitrov after him. Mr. Notev. [[Reply from the National Representative Yavor Notev.]] I think you even argued that I gave the floor to Mr. Kanev first. At the same time, you raised your hand with him, but... Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Notev is giving you the place to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make a statement as a Commissioner and it does not in any way engage political forces, it is not against political forces. It's only in the work we did. What was he going to do, carry out the Commission? Three: to get acquainted with the request of the Attorney General; to listen to the persons concerned; and to make any decision. We tried to listen, it turns out he almost had to be at the stadium, to fight an agitate against an agitate, to be very public. But there was actually classified information, we decided not to spread the names of witnesses, of persons, of police officers, of the Ministry of Interior and so on, because they are not essentially for us, others are the competent authorities. The opinion was made that Mr. Volen Siderov was not properly recognized. It's quite possible that this is how you put four pictures: Gosho, Pesho, Sasho and the fourth one says: Volen. It's not right, Volen isn't a common name, but it's a detail that we don't care about either. Whether the doctor was on vacation or not. I think not all the cops were at work, but they were urgently called, so whether you're on vacation or not, you keep being a doctor. Whether you were urgently called on Saturday, Sunday, you continue to be a police officer. Whether they recognized you or not, I think we all recognized him when we saw him, including the scars on his face, although this is the subsequent, third case. There was also an opinion that almost this decision depends on what the image of the National Assembly will be. I'm very sorry, I strongly object. If we keep one MP and that raises the image 5%, does that mean that if we want it to be 50%, we have to keep another 10?! There were speeches that said that we should not change the Law on the particular person, and everyone was right for themselves, and everyone expressed their opinion. When we finished, I proposed that we do not make speeches so that we do not further aggravate the situation that Volen and the other colleague are in, because they are in their right to defend themselves, and we should not be attacking them. I kept thinking about it until I saw what their reactions were like. The number of the participants in the Commission was on their party television. I'm very sorry, but aren't these participants acting under a decision taken by the National Assembly? They're doing their job. Aren't they broadcast by every parliamentary group? How do women in this Commission get bullied?! Tomorrow, when they go to their electoral district, will they see in every person against themselves a person not very well with the nerves of a particular political power?! Are they going to protect themselves from every man?! Why? Because someone decided to provoke them, to make them attack. I've received a lot of texts. Do you want me to read it? Very embarrassing will be the political force that called for this to happen, extremely embarrassing, starting from the great Volen and getting to many, many, many vulgar speeches. Will Volen's apology save coworker Desislava right now if she goes to Montana? [[Reply from "Attacka."]] I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u31	Please no lines from place and no qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u32	This behavior of yours was unbecoming. I was the man I've always said: I respect Yavor Notev, a magnificent specialist. You have two professors I like. Volen was on the territory of a building I've been in charge of for years. I like you, I work with you. We're commenting on the particular case. A crime has been committed. We can't take sides and we don't want to be the country. We give the permission, and you attack us dishonestly and attack your coworkers. Will this apology of Volen Siderov stop my texts, will it stop the conversations? But it's not me. It's the coworkers. So it's not right. What I'm trying to say is I'm not gonna be a judge. There's someone to be. We weren't there and we don't know exactly what happened. One can say one thing, another can say another. I feel sorry for the student. I feel sorry for him because I don't see what kind of drug dealer he is, but I wasn't there. Let us allow the judicial system to decide and take the decision impartially. I think that everyone in this room who has broadcast two candidates to participate in the Commission should show respect for these two colleagues, because tomorrow at another committee there will be other colleagues. We must in no way attack, but we must not defend. We have to be impartial. I call on you to vote for the proposal of the Attorney General. On my behalf, I apologize to the two coworkers for shoving them into a situation where no one expected this to happen. But they lived through it and accepted it. At the same time, I would like to lower some voltage degrees and continue to treat ourselves as colleagues, as we have treated before. There have been other cases of elimination of immunity and then no judicial repression. There were acquittals. There was another case. So let the justice system decide impartially, and we do what we are asked to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u33	Replies to Mr. Emil Dimitrov? I won't. To speak, Mr. Yavor Notev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, yesterday, November 10th, 2015, at 14.00 p.m. the gentlemen Chukolov and Siderov were at the disposal of investigator Tsanov in the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. Thus the beginning of an investigation was launched, for which the National Assembly decided to authorise the immunity of the two MPs, according to and in the volume corresponding to the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic. Orders were given to attract both of them as defendants, measures were taken to keep them in line. The program was subsequently agreed on, on which the investigator will do his work to investigate the act we discussed and about which the Commission under the leadership of Dimitar Glauchev came up with a proposal approved by the National Assembly. I would like to illustrate the difference between the decision we made on this first case and what is offered to the Members of the National Assembly. Whether out of ignorance or quite purposefully, the audience risks being misled by the nature of what we are about to decide. On the second case, on which a request was made by the Prosecutor General, the two MPs said they were giving up their immunity. That is, the procedure I told you about yesterday will take place quite freely in the coming days, when the case is assigned to an investigator and he takes care of the presence of the two MPs. In addition, this is precisely what this is about. Will the presence and appearance of the two MPs be ensured if they are left to live in their homes, to work under the parliament's programme, to participate in decision-making and voting, or at the cost of their deprivation of that possibility they must reside 24 hours in the investigative arrest in order to be able to move criminal proceedings against them. That's what I'm talking about. And we have no reason to doubt that their detention, as stated in the Prosecutor General's request, will be requested by the Prosecutor's Office, will be brought into court for the next 72 hours, for as long as the prosecutor can, at his discretion, keep them in custody... To discuss whether or not the detention of the MPs is necessary under the condition of a permanent measure. That's all we're talking about! The other is an understatement of the intelligence of the audience I'm talking to. The other is a delusion that we don't solve anything. We raise our hands from this problem and leave it to the competent authorities. Excuse me, the competent authorities in the face of the prosecution according to their clear competence have already stated their request and it will be implemented. If we say yes to the prosecutor's request, there is no doubt that the initial, so-called prosecution detention, will be implemented. Otherwise, there is nothing to bring to the attention of the Assembly. That's what I'm talking about. That's what we're going to vote on, and that's what we're going to decide. The illustration of the conduct of the two MPs with regard to the investigation on which their immunity has already been lifted comes to show that there is no way to happen the concerns that the two will hinder the investigation. By the way, this has also been acknowledged by the opponents of this thesis. There is no way such individuals can hide or leave the country or do anything to divert from the attention and opportunity of investigators to do their job. By the way, these were the main arguments of the representatives of Ataka. In the Commission of Dimitar Glauchev, I allow myself, for a short time, to label it so, because we find the request for retention strongly influenced by the emotions of the moment, in the way the event was announced, and very prematurely, at that unwarranted. You have heard the reduced text delivered in today's sitting, because given the dynamics of the situation, as the President of the Commission said, he would and would like to try to report only those parts of the Commission's decision that are relevant to the issue that we need to resolve. In essence, there are no such parts of the report either because there are no grounds in the request to claim that the detention of these two MPs is duly justified. I therefore ask you to respect our competence, the consequences of our decision, and to vote with a clear mind what we are doing. In the discussion of the Institute, which has already become a debater within both the Commission and in the couloirs of Parliament, in the light of the proposal for a change of the Rules, and of the Constitution, there were even opinions that immunity should actually be an institute that defends political events, the possibility of freedom of will of the people's representative, and that freedom is used in favour of decisions that are beneficial to the state. I remind you of this thesis that we fully share, and in the name of the upcoming important votes, there are discussions ahead of which each thesis, each vote, will have its own meaning. At the same time, we have a proposal from the prosecutor for the convenience of pre-trial proceedings, probably because only I guess, two MPs, one of whom chair of a parliamentary group, cannot participate in the work of the National Assembly. Put on the scales in purely life terms the burden of the accusation, which will even be proven, and what the MPs will be deprived of. I ask you to make a decision according to your authority and your self-esteem as MPs, with the knowledge with which you are present in this House, and the tasks with which we are sent by our constituents here. It is this political country that cannot be foreign to our competence to take attitude. I categorically state that Mr. Siderov's statement in this Chamber, along with his behaviour in the previous activities of the investigation bodies, gives the relevant guarantees that the investigation will not be prevented, that his presence will be there, that he will actively participate in the disclosure of the truth, because this is his interest, this is his desire to reach an objective result corresponding to the truth and facts of the case for which criminal proceedings have been initiated. Honourable Members, I strongly repeat the thesis that after a moment we are voting on a decision, which means only the following: whether the two Members of the National Assembly will have to stay 24 hours, two or three in the investigational arrest until the issue by the Bulgarian Court of Justice is discussed about the measure of non-violence during pre-trial proceedings. Absolutely unnecessary scenario, absolutely unnecessary and premature scenario! Their presence and participation in this process is guaranteed and secured. I ask you for a sensible and sober solution that does not unduly heat the situation and does not bring any doubt about the correct and proper application of the institutes which concern the status of the Members of the National Assembly. There is no excess in the fact that the MPs enjoy immunity. There is nothing wrong with using this immunity when it is necessary to participate in the work of the National Assembly and when this work and decisions and freedom of will must be guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Any lines to Mr. Notev? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and free of emotions. There were a few that were said. Most accurate of what you said was the people presented Radan Kanev. The Commission's job is to rule on the request of the Attorney General and so far. If the Attorney General's request is now resolved, it is entirely the burden of the prosecution that he will take. If we reject the request, we will stop the process and build a wall before the MPs, I believe that a lot of walls have been erected between the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens. In this way, that is, if we resolve now in this Chamber the request of the Attorney General, we will, among other things, comply with Article. 6, para. 2 of the Constitution, which states that the Bulgarian citizens are equal before the law. It remains on your conscience to decide how you will vote. I'd also like to read you the reasons in the Attorney General's request why he wants the non-retention measure under guard. To prevent the conduct of other socially dangerous acts by him, Volen Siderov is being taken into account. In the case of the demonstrated awareness of impunity and full disregard of the established legal order and the rights of other citizens. Those are the motives of the Attorney General. Ten of the members of the Commission have decided that these reasons are justified. It is up to you to decide whether they are justified or not. If you do not meet the request of the Attorney General, the responsibility will be those who voted against it. If you satisfy him, the responsibility goes to the prosecution. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u37	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I vote on the draft decision which was presented to us by Mr. Glavatchev to give permission for the detention of the MP Volen Nikolov Siderov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, vh. No 527 00 7 of 26 October 2015 Vote 154 MPs: 121, Against 19, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u38	Dear colleagues, I wanted a re-vote to bring another touch into my thesis, which was supported and fully illustrated by Mr. Glauchev's statement. He said: "If we accept the Prosecutor General's proposal, we transfer responsibility to the Prosecutor's Office and we relieve ourselves of it. Excuse me, abdicate, escape from responsibility should not be inherent in the decision of the National Assembly. I stress that today we are making a decision which, under the Constitution and the laws of the country, weighs on us. The detention of a Member of the National Assembly on the grounds requested in the request of the Prosecutor General, who are untenable, premature and unfounded, will weigh on the National Assembly and on anyone else. Please consider your vote and vote as you would like to stand behind the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u39	And do you make a request to re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u40	I'm making a request to re-vote. That's why I started, Madam President, making the request for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u41	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 158 MPs: 124 against 19, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. In a letter, in a letter. No 554-00-679 of 10 November 2015 was submitted an application by Zdravko Dimitrov, Member of the National Assembly of the Seventeenth Election Region of Plovdiv, saying: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision. [[Deputy President Aliosman Imamov specified with President Tsetska Tsacheva on the agenda.]] Guys, I'm working on it. We didn't vote on Mr. Chukolov's decision. Please, the MPs back in the room! It's my fault. Mr. Imamov fixed me. "Project" DECISION on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria with. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015 to grant permission to detain Desislaw Slavov Chukolov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 134, para. 1, 5 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Grants permission for the detention of the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria with. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015 (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union) Voting mode. Vote 150 MPs: 118, against 18, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Now we can move on to the next point of termination of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. I informed you that with Application 554-00-679 of 10 November 2015, the national representative Zdravko Dimitrov of the Seventeenth Election Region Plovdivski stated the following: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly. I would like to be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision. I offer to your attention a professional "Project" DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Zdravko Dimitrov as a MP from the Seventeenth Election Region of Plovdiv. Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 121 MPs: 105 against 14, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Simeonov, would you like a re-vote? Moving on to point three: GENERAL DEBATE FOR FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE AFTER LAWS: THE LAW FOR DELIVERATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CORPORATE SUB-CORPORATE COLLATERAL COLLATERAL COLLATERAL COLLATERAL REPRESENTATION OF THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL; THE LAW OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSION OF PHYSICAL PERSONS, Importers, Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, respectively, from 30 April 2015 and 21 May 2015; LAW FOR ADMISSION OF THE LAW ON THE ADDED ADVANTAGE, Importers First we will hear the report of the leading Committee on the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers under the Law on Corporate Income Tax..............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u42	Madam President, firstly, I would like to make a procedure in the Chamber to be admitted: Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Fezi Bekir, Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u43	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u44	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 502-01-84, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. At a meeting held on 3 November 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Finance, Petya Kopcheva, Head of Department of the same Directorate, Mrs. Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Department of Revenues, representatives of the National Revenue Agency, the Institute of Graduated Accountants, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and others. The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova. The bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act was drawn up to bring national tax legislation into line with the requirements of the European directives in the field of direct taxation and to align the texts of the law imposed in the process of notification of the tax measure constituting State aid for regional development. The main points in the bill are: 1. Amendments and additions to the Corporate Income Tax Act concerning transposition of requirements of Council Directive 2014/86/EU of 8 July 2014 amending Directive 2011/96/EU on the common system of taxation of parent and subsidiary companies from different Member States and Council Directive (EU) 2015/1121 of 27 January 2015 amending Directive 2011/96/EU on the common system of taxation of parent and subsidiary companies from different Member States are proposed. 2. A new State aid scheme has been proposed concerning the expiry of the State aid scheme in the form of a tax relief under art. 184 in conjunction with Art. 189 CDC. The approved scheme provides for a transitional period for 2015, according to which the corporate tax for 2015 on this tax relief will be passed on if an application form is submitted within 1 January 2016 to 29 February 2016 and approval by the Bulgarian Investment Agency is available until 31 March 2016. 3. The definition of jurisdictions with preferential tax regime is changed. From the scope of jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, Member States of the EU and those exchanging information on the basis of Council Directive 2011/16/EU of 15 February 2011 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation shall be excluded. 4. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Value Added Tax, the Tax Insurance Procedure Code and the Law on Restriction of Payments in Cash. The Law on Income Tax on Individuals proposes the following changes: it enables diplomatic representations in Bulgaria to deduct and import income tax on the employees of the local natural persons who work for them; advance taxation of income from other sources is introduced....the incomes of a random and irregular nature.. benefits for lost benefits and damages of such nature, cash and prizes of games, competitions and competitions, which are not provided by an employer or contracting entity; interest which are not subject to final tax and so on under art. 35 of the Law on income taxes of natural persons; an opportunity to deduct the compulsory health insurance contributions under art. 40, para. 5 of the Health Insurance Act for all incomes to be taken into account when determining the final amount of the social security income; to the non-taxable income under art. 13 of the law is added the funds received under the programme "Erasmus +" of the European Union to support student, teaching and administrative mobility. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposes the following amendments: they are included in the tax on land property within the construction boundaries of the settlements, which are of the status of agricultural land and of unchanged use by their owners; the tax relief under art. 24, para. 1, t. 18 and 19, offering the relief not to apply to buildings which have received a certificate of energy efficiency as a result of public funds provided under the National Energy Efficiency Programme of multifamily residential buildings; the provision in art. 71a on exemption from a fee for household waste of temples, prayer houses and monasteries and land estates on which the property of the legally registered creeds is built. The Tax Insurance Procedure Code provides for a change under which tax obligations under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees will be able to be established by an act establishing the obligation both on the basis of a declaration submitted by the taxable person and on the basis of data from the register under art. 54, para. 1 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The change relates to the new regime introduced from 1 January 2015 with regard to the declaration and determination of the vehicle tax. The value added tax Act proposes the following changes: the period of application of the VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops until 31 December 2018, suggests changes relating to Council Directive 2008/8/EC of 2008 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the place of supply of services; changes are proposed as a result of identified discrepancies with European Union law, namely: the supply of the medical service by a person exercising a medical profession under the Health Act to be exempted from value added tax; all cases of free use of goods or services for the personal needs of the owner or its related persons, employees or third parties, which, within the meaning of the Law, are treated as a taxable supply regardless of the nature of the supply. An obligation shall be introduced to a registered person who intends to use vehicles and property rights on them on a tax basis in the acquisition of more than 5000 leva or immovable property and property rights on them for which a wholly or partly tax credit has been deducted, except for the purposes of their economic activity and for the personal needs of the owner or its related persons, employees or third parties, to submit a declaration to the National Agency for Revenues for the distribution of direct costs incurred by a methodology that corresponds to the purpose of the goods. The declaration is intended to be submitted electronically under the terms and conditions of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The Minister of Finance will order the methodology for the allocation of the costs incurred. Changes are proposed in relation to a request to the European Commission for a derogation under art. 395 of Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax. It is available for use for both independent economic activity and personal needs of the owner, associated persons, employees or third parties in cars where the number of seating positions without the driver's seat does not exceed 8, except those referred to in art. 70, para. 1, t. 4; of aircraft, except those referred to in art. 31, t. 1 and of vessels, the tax credit of which registered persons will be entitled to acquire those vehicles, as well as the goods or services received relating to maintenance, repair, improvement or operation, to be 70 per cent of the tax levied. It is proposed to cancel the regime under art. 118, para. 7 of the Law on Oil Bases, providing for a six-month transitional period for beneficiaries of the regime to bring their activities into line with the requirements of art. 118 of the VAT. The Law on limitation of cash payments proposes a reduction of the threshold for limiting cash payments in the country of 15 000 BGN. £5000. The limit will also apply to foreign currency payments where their remaining equivalent is equal to or greater than BGN 5000. on the course of the Bulgarian National Bank on the day of payment. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission and the representatives of the branch organizations expressed principled support for the bill. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 502-01-84, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce you to its President, the national representative Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u46	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 502-01-84, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 4 November 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 502-01-84, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Ministry of Finance: Feizy Bekir The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Bekir. According to the importer, the proposed bill provides for amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act in three directions: - Changes in the transposition of two Council of the European Union directives on the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. A positive effect on the prevention of double taxation resulting from differences in tax treatment of distributed profits in different Member States is expected. - Changes relating to tax reliefs constituting State aid for regional development. The sectors of transport, energy, primary production, processing and marketing of agricultural products are explicitly excluded. - A change in the definition of jurisdictions with preferential tax regime. From this scope, Member States of the European Union and those who exchange information based on Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation shall be excluded. The list of States/territories which meet the legal requirements for jurisdictions with preferential tax regime will be validated by an order of the Minister of Finance. The transitional and final provisions also make changes to other tax laws. The Law on Income Tax on Individuals provides an opportunity for diplomatic representations in Bulgaria to deduct and import income tax on employees of local individuals who work for them. The order for the advance taxation of incomes from other sources will be changed, reducing the possibility of undeclared and non-apprehension of random and irregular incomes. The possibility of deduction of compulsory health contributions for all incomes to be taken into account in determining the final amount of the social security income shall be provided. To the group of non-taxable incomes under art. 13 of the Law on personal income taxes is added and the funds received under the programme "Survivor" + "Survivor" + The Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposes a change in art. 10, according to which land estates within the construction boundaries of the settlements which have the status of agricultural land and have not changed their purpose by their owners to be included in the scope of tax-taxed property. They will not be exempt from a property tax for buildings which have received a certificate of energy efficiency as a result of their renewal by public funds, as for those who own these homes a double preferential offer would be obtained................................................................................................................................................................ Religions in Bulgaria are intended to pay a fee for domestic waste for the properties used for economic purposes, not related to their direct worship activities. The Tax Insurance Procedure Code proposes an extension of the period of application of the VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops until 31 December 2018, as an effective instrument for the prevention of VAT fraud involving non-existent traders and the reduction of unfair competition. The Value Added Tax Act proposes changes relating to a change in Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the place of supply of services and non-compliance with the Value Added Tax Act with the Directive, as well as changes resulting from findings of non-compliance with European Union law. It is proposed that the delivery of the medical care service by a person exercising a medical profession be exempted from VAT. There has been a change in the determination of the waste (amortizations). The use of the tax base for which a tax credit is deducted is proposed to be determined in equal parts over a period of 5 years from the acquisition of the movable property or 20 years from the acquisition of the immovable property. It is an obligation for the registered person who also intends to use for personal needs vehicles with a tax base for the acquisition of more than 5000 BGN, for which a tax credit has been used, to submit a declaration to the National Revenue Agency for the distribution of the direct costs incurred. It is envisaged that the tax credit to which registered persons will be entitled will be 70 per cent of the tax levied on the acquisition of those goods. The possibility that oil bases do not issue fiscal or systemic bonds and do not transmit by remote connection to the National Revenue Agency data which enables the determination of the available quantities of fuel in storage tanks in liquid fuel trading sites is cancelled. The Law on limitation of cash payments proposes that the threshold should be reduced from 15 000 to 5000 BGN. The Bulgarian Industrial Association in its opinion supports the Law in principle by proposing the dropping of the item. 1 of § 18 to § 21 and the introduction of new changes which do not affect revenue in the budget. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria generally supports the bill by expressing reservations regarding the low threshold of the tax base of the material asset used for personal needs. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria generally supports the bill and proposes a review of income taxation. The representatives of BSP left Bulgaria and expressed disagreement with the lack of financial justification of the bill, as well as analysis of the expected results. A consideration was expressed on the tax reductions for the underdeveloped regions and the lack of methodology for determining a municipal waste charge in the municipalities. The representatives of the Reformation Block do not support the proposal for the taxation of agricultural land in the construction boundaries of the settlement; they propose a change in the ratio of the use of tax credit to the joint assets used, as well as an increase in the limit of the cash payments. Following the end of the discussion and the outcome of the vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 502-01-84, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, you will be acquainted with its President, National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski. You have the floor, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its regular meeting held on 5 November 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part Mr. Fezi Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Tax Policy Department in the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Nikola Sherletov Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Bekir "Deputy Minister of Finance," who focused mainly on the amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposed by the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law. The proposed amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees aim at facilitating the practical implementation of the Law. The project proposes that the land-based property within the construction boundaries of settlements with the status of agricultural land has not changed their purpose by their owners to be included in the scope of tax-taxed property. In order to prevent the possibility of obtaining a double preference from the owners of renovated multi-family residential buildings, public funds, and to achieve a level playing field with those renovating their residential buildings by their own means, it is proposed that the tax relief for buildings which have received a certificate of energy efficiency as a result of public funds provided under the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings should not apply. The project proposed a change with regard to the payment of property tax acquired after the deadline for payment of a second contribution "31 October" of the current year, which removes the gap in the Law. The provision on exemption from a household waste charge was proposed both to temples, prayer houses and monasteries and to land estates on which they were built, owned by legally registered religion by the country, with the exemption from a fee being provided that the property is not used for business purposes that is not related to their direct public service activity. It is envisaged the introduction of an administrative criminal provision that, when providing daily information from the municipalities of the Ministry of Finance by electronic means, to impose a sanction on the mayor of the municipality concerned, this is in the absence of the Minister of Finance, as the provision of information from the municipalities leads to a violation of the functioning of the national database of local taxes and fees. The Commission has submitted an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria which objects to the imposition of sanctions on the mayors of municipalities and specific remarks and proposals have been made. An opinion was received from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which draws attention in its part on the amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees to the need to refine the provisions regarding the municipal waste charge, making concrete proposals for this. In the course of the discussion, it was noted that the proposed provisions on the taxation of agricultural land included in the construction boundaries of settlements and settlements are unclear as to which agricultural land they relate and may lead to problems with their application practice, so it is necessary to refine them. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Commission has taken a decision in the event of a falling quorum, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with two votes
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. There is no report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the bill. According to the Programme, which we voted on this morning, there are three more bills that are included in this item. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on personal income taxes, No 554-01-85, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015 there was a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Summary of ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on personal income taxes, No 554-01-85, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015. At its regular meeting on 4 November 2015, the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax on Individuals. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Georgi Svilenski. Written opinions were submitted by the Agency for Child Protection and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance. There was a discussion. During the discussion the MPs agreed that tax reliefs for families with children are an important element of our social and demographic policy, but should be part of the common framework of the country's fiscal and social policy. After the debates, a discussion and a vote was held on the following results:..... 4 votes.............................. 6 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports suggests that the National Assembly should not support a bill amending and supplementing the Law on personal income taxes, No 554-01-85, submitted by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Bekov. There is no report on the draft by the Budget and Finance Committee. Second Draft Law of the People's Representatives of the People's Republic of Bulgaria Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs to supplement the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons, No 554-01-96, submitted on 21 May 2015. The report, which will be presented to your attention, is by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote of the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, No 554-01-96, submitted by the National Representative Mihail Raykov and a group of Members of Parliament on 21 May 2015. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting on 10 June 2015 examined the Draft Law. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Larissa Todorova, State Expert at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. According to importers, the proposed changes aim at improving tax legislation by introducing elements of social justice and differentiated tax burden. The bill provides for natural persons who receive taxable income from employment in the amount of up to the minimum wage, including the benefit of tax relief, to recover the tax paid in advance during the year. The envisaged relief may be granted provided that regardless of the untaxable income of one person received by him during the year, taxable income is only from employment benefits and the annual tax base for the income of the person does not exceed the sum of the monthly minimum wages for the country for the year................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Draft Law on the ground that the proposed tax relief is, by nature, an indeterminate minimum only for employment benefits which is incompatible with the basic principles of proportional taxation and does not comply with the principles of the effective tax system of equality, fairness and neutrality. The so- proposed tax relief not only does not achieve social justice, but will create inequalities and discrimination in terms of incomes that are not incomes from employment relationships, as well as in relation to persons who receive only income from employment relationships. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy generally supports the idea of taking measures, including legislation, to increase the income of the least paid workers. However, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill, considering that with the proposed new article. 22b creates a prerequisite for inequality between persons, as two persons may receive equal basic wage in the amount of the minimum wage, but for one person that remuneration shall be determined for the full statutory duration of the working time and for the other for part-time. During the discussion it was noted that the Bill has an important social function in support of low incomes and the planned tax relief will have a significant effect, above all, on people living in small towns. It was underlined that bills of this nature should be considered before the adoption of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year. In response, it was pointed out that the proposed measures would amount to around 130 million. BGN, which are envisaged as expenditure in the draft budget for 2016 and will not have an impact on the state budget for 2015. After the discussion and the vote with results was concluded: ...... 8 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons, No 554-01-96, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 21 May 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Honourable Members, allow me to inform you that there is no report on the draft by the Committee on Budget and Finance. The third bill is to supplement the Value Added Tax Act submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. There is no report received on it. I give the floor to the importers. Mr. Mikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, it is strange that the discussion of tax laws begins in the absence of the Minister of Finance. It would be good for him to be here, because by tax laws, you can see what policy the government is proposing, what policy the ruling majority is proposing. I do not claim that the Prime Minister will come, because he is at the heart of this policy a policy that will determine the revenue part of the budget and will show the government's attitude towards the tax authorities, both to the legal entities and to the Bulgarian citizens, so that they know what they have received from the ruling majority for the next year, once as taxation, a second time as the distribution of the funds collected in the state treasury. We offer once again to your attention the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, which provides for progressive income tax system known to Bulgaria, implemented for many years in Bulgaria before 9 September, after 9 September, before 10 November, after 10 November. It was amended in 2008, when the Bulgarian economy was in bloom, when the annual growth reached 4.5%, when unemployment was forgotten when Europe, the world and Bulgaria developed on an upward line. At that time it was changed by the low tax rate, the so-called flat tax rate. Two thousand and fifteen years before it showed that this system is extremely inadequate, especially when there is no economic growth. The government in its report reports extremely negative indicators for the Bulgarian economy, but I will not dwell on them today. There is a big problem in front of Bulgaria and it is the unfair taxation of millions of Bulgarian citizens and fair and good, perhaps, for a narrow circle of people with very high incomes, reaching 5, 10, 15, 20 thousand. lv. This increases social inequalities, kills the sense of justice in Bulgarian citizens and ultimately leads to lower revenues in the state budget. Government policy also this year is wagering low redistribution through the state budget. If the European countries reschedule about 50% on average, and France suppose 57%, then in Bulgaria we hesitate even within the 37th. 38%, which kills the country's prospects, strengthens poverty and poverty and makes it so that if this year 50% of the students are from poor families, next year to become 52rd percent, next year. There are whole regions in the country where first-graders from poor families reach 70.. 80%! We do not accept this government policy. We do not, of course, accept the intended taxation of food for poor people. We do not accept that Bulgaria can continue like this! Therefore, we offer progressive income tax, which will result in tax evasion to all who receive income up to BGN 1500. We have taken this criterion because it is approximately two average salaries for the country. You know that in Bulgaria salaries are the lowest. The cost of labor is killingly low. It, in addition to leading to poverty, will cause more and more damage to the Bulgarian business, will make it difficult for foreign investors to find labour, because Bulgarians in the open European labour market are leaving for better paid labour markets. Besides leaving, they take their children there. This year only 13 500 children less than those who were to be enrolled in the first grade are enrolled in Bulgarian schools. Others are recorded in those lands where their parents have found sustenance. Dear Members of Parliament, we offer a progressive, not very burdening high income tax rate groups. When I say not very stressful, I mean the taxation of this type of income in European countries and in the United States of America. In European countries, steep rocks and high benefits of up to 40 - 50% are common. Now, to move towards progressive income taxation, we offer incomes over 10,000. lv. to be subject to 27%; between 5 thousand respectively. And 10,000. lv. between 2 thousand and 25 percent. And $5,000. lv. The tax in the previous row is 22 percent; and from one thousand to two thousand. lv. With 17 per cent for the top over 1,000 leva. We offer, of course, an indeterminate minimum for people with minimum wages. You understand that Bulgaria is a country of poverty and if we want to break this trend, especially with regard to the people who work with low incomes, we must show a clear sign of national policy in this regard. Otherwise, more and more people will leave and choose their livelihoods in other countries from the free European market. We also offer another component to account for child support. The government this year in the submitted Budget Bill and in the relevant tax and social laws does not provide for an increase, an adjustment, at least to inflation, to child support aids, to those social payments related to people with low incomes. That is why we propose an increase of the non-taxable minimum of 15 per cent for the first child and another 10 per cent for the second child. This is linked to an incentive in terms of raising children. Without such a solution, the heavy demographic perspective and its end will come closer and closer to us. I have been able to say several times from this tribune that the horizon of demographic perspective is shortening. I look forward to seeing what measures the government will give to implement a decision of the National Assembly from the end of July. But there are no such measures in the budget tabled. On the contrary, there is a freezing of misery, freezing of raising children. It's like a policy that's exactly the opposite of what Bulgaria needs. Dear Members of Parliament, progressive taxation is not only a matter of justice and political issue. More and more serious economists understand that it is also a matter of economic development. More and more serious economists understand that otherwise the quality of the workforce, and the quantity, is already observed by those involved in business, marks negative trends that condemn entrepreneurship to lack of perspective. That is why, although the majority in this National Assembly is right, often with extremely right decisions, I think that the rationalism for the development of entrepreneurship, the investments in Bulgaria will also make those who are otherwise against progressive taxation to support this. If it doesn't happen today, it will happen next year, but people need to see clearly which policy is for which policy today in Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. President, and we will also take part in the discussion further. Thanks. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On the other bill? Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We, the MPs from BSP Levia Bulgaria, have proposed a bill to return a provision that has a place in our law, in tax law, namely to relieve the working poor in Bulgaria receiving a minimum wage by restoring the ten percent collected during the course of the year. There is no question that Bulgaria is the poorest and most illiterate country in Europe. This, honourable Members, is the result of the right-wing income policy. We do not have a rational income policy and, above all, the ruling right-wing majority. Although it is explicitly stated in the 2020 strategy that combating poverty must be the main objective of the development of the state, it must be the main objective of the policy that is being implemented, we continue not to pursue such a policy. I refer first of all to the right-wing majority of fellow Members, let us look into the content of the single provision proposed relating to the reimbursement of the ten per cent tax for workers. This means that for every family in which there is such a working family, we should restore bread a day. Understand, this is extremely important for the existence of these people. These are the poorest people in Europe who, although working, receive extremely low labour incomes, and this is about over 300,000. Bulgarians. Three hundred thousand families, if we accept, and I hope that you will support this legislative proposal, over 300,000. families will have one bread extra every day. Because at the end of the year they will be reimbursed the amount of about 440 - 450 BGN. You know very well that in 2013 such a norm was working. For one reason or another, obviously in order to burden the most socially weak, the ruling majority abolished this provision in 2014. Now is the time to realize that this is not the way to fill the treasury. The way is to have a fair distribution of the tax burden. And I will remind you what is written in our Constitution that taxes are paid by citizens according to their property and income. This is mostly in line with the constitutional provision, because from the poor to collect small taxes, small in size, it makes no sense. You keep poverty more, you keep illiteracy, you keep the workforce at an extremely low level. And colleague Mihail Mikov perfectly correctly stated that in Bulgaria the workforce does not change quantitatively and qualitatively, the workforce becomes less and less, and in a qualitative way the necessary specialists are missing. Why is that? Because we don't have the necessary income policy. This provision has been in effect in our law not only in 2013. I would also like to point out that there are similar provisions in all developed industrial and economic countries, as well as in the USA, Germany, England, Austria. We are following and trying to catch up with their standard of living and to make sure that Bulgarian citizens can feel in the same way economically prosperous in Bulgaria to raise their children and create the necessary public product. I therefore appeal to you that this provision should indeed be restored and that any poor worker who receives a minimum wage at the end of the year, with the declaration of the tax return being reimbursed to him the 10% tax collected with payment of the corresponding salary. What does this mean economically? Economically, in the economy and, above all, in trade, in consumption, around 120 million will enter. BGN will increase the trade turnover. The state will benefit because of this trade turnover it will collect VAT and excise duties, so we will compensate for the possible loss for the budget from the uncollected or recovered taxes on the wage of workers on a minimum wage. Thus we will stimulate both business and production and trade and speed up, albeit minimally, because the amount is not great, the economic development of the country. Therefore, this provision, which we propose, I also hope that colleagues from other parties understand its meaning and support it, will have an extremely important economic effect, and a positive economic effect, because it will stimulate the trade of goods for consumption. Again, for each one of these working, it means either one yogurt every day, or one bread. These goods will be used, respectively the turnover in small and medium-sized businesses and in other retail chains will increase. This provision is therefore economically viable and it should be supported from the point of view of creating conditions for economic growth and revival of trade and consumption, which, under these crushing economic conditions that exist now and which we are increasingly imposing on the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, by inventing taxes for the taxis, taxes for the gardens and so on, will be extremely important for them. We'll give them a breath of air so they can feed their children. My fellow Members, I think I've been thorough enough. To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again: the bill proposed by us to supplement the Law on personal income taxes is, in fact, a first step towards the transition of progressive income taxation by introducing a kind of non-taxable minimum for the poor working in this country to be reimbursed during the year tax. This will support the development of the workforce, support economic growth and consumption. I think we should have no doubt in supporting such a provision. I hope that colleagues on the right will understand the objectives and meaning of this brief but very meaningful legal change, and will support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. And on the third bill, No 554-01-130, submitted by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Turnovallisky, for an opinion of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! It is a practice in recent years before the vote on the budget to vote as it is popular, a package of tax laws. This year this package was skillfully packaged to a Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act in order not to debate and view the laws that we have tabled concerning the taxes of individuals and VAT, which I would like to present today. It turns out that by keeping direct taxes demonstrably low, the state is deprived of a little income. People in Bulgaria are deluded that they pay low taxes, but they actually pay much higher taxes through indirect taxes when buying food, textbooks, services. What's really going on? Ordinary people compensate for the budget and losses from the lower direct taxes through payments in consumption, which are saved to companies and the rich levies they should be paying. Bulgaria is the country with the lowest direct taxes in Europe - 10% individual, compared to 34% on average for the highest income groups in the European Union. But this low rate must be compensated, and this is done with invisible and subversive indirect taxes. The share of the tax burden in Bulgaria of indirect taxes is 55%, with an average of 34.5% for the European Union. In order to ease the burden of these invisible taxes at least a little for young families who raise children, it is our proposal that a differentiated 5% VAT rate be introduced on equipment, food and services for children. Differentiated VAT rates are used throughout Europe. The aim is to promote and support. Unfortunately, however, in Bulgaria in 2007, when such a differentiated rate was introduced, it was not used as a social tax instrument, such as the opportunity, but is once again aimed at easing the conditions for business, in which there is no bad, but ultimately this instrument is not implemented in principle where it is possible to help, as we suggest, in this case young families. Having the lowest direct taxes doesn't mean you have the lowest taxes. Bulgaria collects significantly less taxes than the average for Europe, but collects them, notice from the consumption of the majority, from low-paid workers, peasants, pensioners and children of support. Denying the population an indeterminate minimum, as well as a differentiated rate, which we offer for VAT on children's supplies and foods, Bulgarian governance worsens the situation of a million people around and below the poverty line. The reduction in the tax rate for food intended for babies and children, for single-use diapers, for the supply of car seats, as well as home care services for children is a means of relieving parents who raise children. According to official data of the National Statistical Institute for 2014 in the Republic of Bulgaria were born 68 thousand. Children. The rate of birth rate is significantly lower in areas with lower development, lower income and standard of living. Reducing the cost of raising children will help socially weak and financially unstable Bulgarian citizens in raising a child and will have a positive economic effect and social impact, of course. The funds collected from taxation with a tax value added to those supplies of goods and services are negligible, so this will not have a negative impact on revenue and on the fissure. The reduction of the tax burden for the supply of home care services, such as home care assistance for children, elderly people, sick and disabled persons, is intended to make the service accessible while integrating people in a disadvantaged position to the social and economic life of the country. The proposal has beneficial consequences, and is expected to increase employment, especially in small settlements with predominantly elderly population and underdeveloped ones. The legislative change will reduce the unemployment rate for people in pre-retirement years, allowing them to be hired on employment contracts and on the labour market will reduce the burden on the social and insurance system. The percentage of Bulgarians working abroad who are employed in the field of these services is high for the delivery of home services and home care. With the introduction of legislative change, it will stimulate the return of these people to the country and the start of work similar to the work they have done abroad. Honourable Members, a number of Member States have taken advantage of the possibility of introducing reduced tax rates. Tax rates for home care services in France, Malta, the Czech Republic are 5.5-5.10% respectively; the delivery of car seats is subject to 5% VAT in the UK and 7% in Poland; France and the Czech Republic, for example, are the countries benefiting from lower rates of child food. Dear colleagues, we appeal to support this proposal of ours to help raise children, to help young families and, of course, to take a step towards dealing with the severe demographic crisis facing the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. It's 11:32. You were familiar with the opinions of importers, with reports of committees we have. Thirty-minute break. At 12.05 we will continue with the debates on the bills. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u60	Dear Members of Parliament, we shall continue with the plenary sitting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We are continuing with discussions on the draft laws presented to your attention. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u61	Dear colleague Glauchev, honourable colleagues! I would like to point out to you a few arguments in support of the introduction of progressive taxation in our country, too, the Republic of Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, from nearly 200 countries of the United Nations, some 180 countries have progressive taxation. There are only 20 countries that, apart from the Middle Asia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan, had two or three of the former flat-tax countries, which even they decide, honourable Members, to come out of the flat tax. Who are they? The Czech Republic, honourable Members, in the introduction of flat tax, was 15%, now introduce a tax rate of 22% flat tax, with preparations for exiting progressive taxation. Slovakia was 19% for all incomes. Slovakia two years ago, colleagues, introduced 19% for incomes up to 35 thousand euros per year and 25% for all incomes over 35 thousand euros per year. Hungary of 16% flat tax, expanded the tax base and imposed such a relatively high tax, almost twice as high as the one in Bulgaria, on all incomes of employment and non-labor, i.e. sharply extended the base. Therefore, honourable Members, almost all Member States of the United Nations and Member States of the European Union have been using progressive taxation for centuries and decades. Why has progressive taxation been categorically imposed in world practice? Firstly, honourable Members, because this progressive taxation mitigates social polarisation. By the way, this is one of the main problems of Bulgaria, because according to the World Bank, honourable Members, from a week ago Bulgaria is the country with the strongest social polarization in the member states of the European Union. I quote the World Bank. Let me remind you that the so-called "Index Ginny" which moves from zero to one hundred, the higher the number, the higher the social polarization in Bulgaria is 36, in Finland it is only 27, in Germany it is 30, in the Netherlands it is 28, in Slovenia it is 25, in Sweden it is 27. Therefore, maintaining the flat tax means deepening the trend of deepening social polarisation in Bulgaria. Secondly, progressive taxation is worldwide established because it distributes more fairly the tax burden for the benefit of low incomes, for the benefit of the middle class and more pronounced distribution processes for high income people. Furthermore, honourable Members, most importantly, in addition to the socio-political effects of the introduction of progressive taxation, I would say as an economist that the macroeconomic effects of the progressive tax system are the most important. Why? Because only progressive taxation, colleagues, can turn budgetary policy into fiscal policy. Let me remind you that the economic policy of each country has two pillars of fiscal policy and monetary policy. We in Bulgaria have given up monetary policy because we have a Monetary Council which Law prohibits monetary policy of the Central Bank. Flat tax means that we should continue to give up fiscal policy, too, something that we cannot afford even the most developed countries. Therefore, the introduction of the progressive tax means linking our budgetary policy and budgetary indicators to a real economic policy for economic growth, to an increase in living standards and to an increase in employment, respectively a reduction in unemployment. Moreover, the macroeconomic effects are also linked to an increase in budget revenue. Dear colleagues, theoretical developments have been made. There are Nobel laureates in both of these for lower taxes, for higher taxes, but what is the business history? Even Reagan's government, which introduced a supply economy in the hope that lower taxes would lead to greater budget revenues, failed, my fellow Members. After the first two years, Reagan's administration changed taxes, started raising them to the 40% limit. The same thing happened to President Bush's administration. The same happened with the decline in taxes in the UK 20 years ago. Therefore, business history has clearly proved that there is no positive link between the tax reduction and the increase in budget revenues. On the contrary, there is no developing or developing country that does not even resort to an increase in the marginal tax rate in order to provide greater budget revenue for the budget. Dear colleagues, the greater revenues for the budget for Bulgaria are vital. It doesn't matter who's in charge. We face the following dilemma at the moment: as you can see, I do not envy this government either, because it will have serious problems to solve budget deficits. And we must make a choice, colleagues, whether to introduce progressive taxation and to provide ourselves with budget revenues through the taxes of our generation, which we now work in the Republic of Bulgaria, or we will prefer to leave the flat tax, leave the big money to the rich in Bulgaria and load our children and grandchildren to pay this financing through external debt. Because we have nowhere to go. We need to answer the question: will we finance Bulgaria's budget from a fair tax system applied throughout the world, or will we bury our head in the sand and transfer the debt burden on the future generations of Bulgaria? Furthermore, it has also been demonstrated by the economic history of the recent crisis that progressive taxation is significantly more appropriate for a country which is in crisis economic conditions and which wants to come out of the crisis. Honourable Members, all developed countries have moved towards an increase in their marginal tax within the framework of progressive taxation and the United States, and Britain, and France, and other countries. I want to say something that is extremely important. Colleagues at the right hand often tie the flat tax to the right hand doctrine. Dear colleagues, there is no such division. I'm telling you. There are other fellow economists here. Nowhere is flat tax linked to just right-hand management. Why? Well, because right-wing governments around the world are implementing progressive taxation. And I've bothered to give you a sample from several countries. Especially for parties entering the EPP (European People's Party) and leading the EPP there? These are former prime ministers of the respective countries, finance ministers and economics: Leo Tyndemance from Belgium. In Belgium, honourable Members, the tax rate is 55% marginal, the corporate tax is 33.99 per cent. Pierre Dukman "the other president of the EPP, which was until 1987, from the Netherlands: 25% corporate tax, 52% distributed income tax. Luxembourg: former EPP President Santer and current President of the European Commission, who is not from the left-wing party. In Luxembourg, honourable Members, corporate tax is 28% and the final tax allocated is 52,45%. The same applies to countries such as Germany and France. In France, the EPP is now run by Mr. Who? Joseph Doll. Isn't that right? Well, in France the corporate tax is 33,33 and the marginal tax is 45%. Therefore, there is no way to use the argument that, you see, flat tax was protected by the right. There's no such thing. There is no reasonable right-wing politician, no developed country in the world, no developing country in the world that does not have progressive taxation. Therefore, in conclusion, BSP left Bulgaria proposes a tax system, a change in the tax system, which corresponds categorically to the global and European practice, to the recommendations of the European Union, to the decisions of the European Union in the last decades before and after the crisis. Secondly, except that this system will have a positive impact on the Bulgarian economy, it will stop the process of increasing the share of the poor in Bulgaria, the deepening of poverty, so that Bulgaria can move in the opposite direction of economic growth, higher employment, less poor. This, honourable Members, goes through progressive taxation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Dear colleagues, Mr. Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov, Krasimir Ananiev, Rumen Hristov signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will first focus on the package of bills proposed by the Council of Ministers. I want to start with what has become known as the "Wickend" tax. To tell you the truth, we're pretty worried about the Reformation Block of this proposal the way it's done. Our concern comes from seeing in this proposal an opportunity for quite serious harassment, I would call it, on business, especially on small and medium-sized businesses. Here I would ask, inter alia, the importers: what exactly do they mean by this tax? Is it, for example, a weekend when, say, an architect came home on Friday after a long day of work in his service car, so that on Saturday early morning he could go to the other site to do his job, or the construction engineer, who similarly got home early on Saturday or Sunday, goes to the construction site, accepts reinforcements, does his job and so on? I mean, do the importers even realize that for small and medium-sized businesses, it's not really what the weekend is for the state clerk, so they're not working from nine to five and then they go home, and very often after working hours at home, and Saturday, and Sunday, they keep working. For them, weekends and vacations are a very relative concept. Thus formulated the proposals, at the very least, raise concern and in any case will not be objective. The real estate issues that these proposals concern and this rate, which is bet on 70/30, must also be raised without any consideration at all of the actual use for personal needs, or not, under the good pretext that the taxation system was thus simplified. But here I ask them again: the real estate, which, for example in a small business, he works in an apartment, which is his own, for example, the manager of the sole trader, and which trader obviously does not receive anything from the state for the fact that in his own home he is working on a business activity, neither does he use a tax credit, nor what about them? Why didn't they have something to think about and the state didn't help them in any way? With regard to passenger cars. What has happened, unfortunately, over the years with the introduction of this system, six plus one, as is known to be able to enjoy the right to tax credit, has led to the fact that the state is filled with expensive SUVs. What is currently being proposed is that the system is being revised so that it already applies to eight or more locations, i.e. we will fill the country with even more expensive SUVs. Is that what's gonna happen? With U.S. SUVs that have nine seats only because, in practice, the rate does not initially apply to them, i.e. they are excluded from that right for 70/30 and will not be subject to control in the order of these declarations and so on. Here, by the way, I will quote something that one of my fellow Members from the Patriotic Front said to the Budget Commission: "Hypothesis, in the introduction of this declaration, unfortunately, is not guilty until proven otherwise in this case business, but, in fact, guilty without the right to prove otherwise. What does the tax administration say here, which is actually the major initiator of these proposals? He says that if in a given case it has been established that a person has not submitted this declaration of personal use of an asset and it has been established to use the asset in this way, for the entire period.. no matter how much it was from the purchase of the property, the right to a tax credit will be reviewed and it will be refused to him. This means that the person can neither provide evidence nor matter that he previously made taxable supplies with the item in question and it was an asset, and instead of taking the particular case and calculating specifically for him what adjustment to be made to the tax credit, we will, by a reverse date, hardly, cut rights, which, for me personally, contradicts the Constitution, to tell you, colleagues. I would not be surprised if this provision was also attacked before the Constitutional Court. And the last thing I will say in this regard is about Directive 2006/112/EC itself, obviously, and there are contradictions with it, because, as you know, colleagues, this Directive applies directly, it has direct application. It is unacceptable for a national legislation to contradict it. This Directive very clearly states that an adjustment to the tax credit is made for the period concerned. It cannot be done hypothetically or by presumption, as has been introduced in this case, without examining at all the period for which the item is used for personal use. For me, these changes, by the way, show a failure of the tax administration at all with this mechanism, because I have to tell you that there is an opportunity in current tax legislation to correct the tax credit used, there is one formula that applies, there is a mechanism at all for the tax authority to enter, to revise and, on the basis of the existing evidence, to establish that an asset has not been used for the purposes of the company's business, respectively, to refuse the tax credit entirely or to correct it accordingly according to the relevant factor. Why, instead of using the existing mechanism that is in line with the directive, is this being introduced by this declaration and by a retroactive date to sanction people, it remains inexplicable to me. There's a lot more to be said in this regard, but I'll stop there. I will only allow myself to comment briefly on the proposals that I have heard here on the left because they were quite many. To tell you the truth, fellow Members on the left, I wonder a little after the fiasco that has been passed before your law, in which you adopted the so-called............................. about the unfulfilled minimum non-taxable income, which was abolished by this majority, you continue to make proposals under tax laws and with regard to the Law on personal income tax. Here I will quote you a very interesting reference, which the Minister of Finance has given me, you can see it on the Parliament website, as a parliamentary question is uploaded in response to my parliamentary question. He pointed out the following: that for this period 2014, when this provision was working for the so-called "indecent" minimum, i.e. when the money had to be returned to the people entitled in 2015 were practically over one million people, they were working on a minimum wage. Do you know how many of them, at all, claimed the right and how much was actually paid, was the tax paid? Under one percent! This is the sad reckoning of this provision because you, in the way you had recorded it, was not working, and in fact these one million people turned out to be excluded from the subject of the law and only 0,5% of them, that is, some five thousand people, received a real refund of this tax. Now, here, you are proposing changes to the Law on personal income tax, again you want to return progressive rates, again you want to cancel the flat tax, which, by the way, you introduced a curious detail to remind you. What I'm going to finish with is I wonder at all these changes that you are proposing, for whom are they directed for the little man, for the middle class, or are they for the so-called red mobile phones as they were once called? See what your bill tells you and the table you proposed. Up to 5,000. lv. The rate is increasing to about 22%, so we have a pretty serious increase from the initial 10% to 22%. Over 5,000. lv. Now whether it's five or five million that gets the person, the difference in the rate increase is only 5% points to 27%, that is, obviously, it uses mostly those people that you call rich, wealthy and so on, and it's practically directed against the middle class, against the small person. I don't understand that either, but that's the way it is. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gechev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u65	Dear Mr. Imamov! Dear colleague Slavov, because you asked a question we are explaining, it cannot be understood all of a sudden. First, this difference leads to the following changes in fact, in practical terms, Bulgarian citizens who receive up to BGN 1520. monthly salary will be benefited on this scale, they will pay less and after 1517 A smooth rise begins. Therefore, the conclusion is that the interests of the middle class are maintained, and this is the idea of the progressive tax, and tax is gradually growing. I am joining the second part of your speech because I felt that you are dissatisfied with the small rate, and not personally. The data I gave you and anyone can verify, the average tax in developed and developing countries in the European Union is about 45%, ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, what we offer is about 28%, which benefits the richest in Bulgaria, spare them by at least 15%. And I owe an explanation: we do it because we believe that there should be no sudden changes in the tax system and the transition from flat tax to progressive to smooth. These were our arguments, and therefore we are offering progressive taxation and distributed tax, which is lower than the EU average and is far from much higher taxes, including the United States. I'm going to end up with something very important. Colleagues, we take Germany as an example, go on the Internet: by combining Germany's federal income tax with the income tax of the provinces, because there is also income that is taxed by the province, as the US tax in the United States or Canada, you will see that the aggregate tax for some German provinces may sound startling to you, but it is 62%, colleagues, for the rich Germans. We offer 28%. If you offer a higher percentage, so I understand, we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Second line? I won't. Mr. Slavov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gechev, you have not understood in this case because right-wing people do not offer an increase in tax rates and to the right you will not hear such proposals from us. You're offering them. By the way, there is no smooth increase in the lower thresholds in this table. As I've been paying attention to you, the increase to 5,000. lv. is with a total of 12 points, which is not small at all, relative to the total, the highest tax rate in your Bill, which is 27% "not 28," but is 27. So I ask you very much not to really take to offer even higher tax rates, because I suppose that is also possible to do. I hope today that this problem will initially be resolved and that this bill will simply not be supported because what it will do is to upset a rather well-functioning system in recent years, a system of transparent taxation which, from the very introduction of the flat tax, if you look at it, will see a constant increase in realised tax revenues, that is to say, for a fissure this system works well, and for a normal person works well, stimulates it to work more, to produce more in a clear tax mechanism, without any need to make any complex accounts: now on which scale I will enter, whether it is to declare, or not to declare that. That is to say, this is also the way to counteract the grey economy. So I suggest you really: let's not experiment. Once again, it was at the insistence of the right then, but your government introduced the flat tax, it worked well. Let's not stir and not upset a system that really works well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any other parliamentary groups willing to take part? On my list is Mr. Ananiev, also Mr. Rumen Hristov. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, since colleague Petar Slavov has developed one part of the Corporate and Income Tax Act, that is, the so-called weekend tax, but has not developed it in full, I will only complete what he has not developed. I share everything you have said regarding the weekend tax, but I just want to add that the so-called weekend tax can lead to extraordinary absurdities. What do I mean? First, that an owner of a company that uses company transport, first, does not have normal working hours, but accounts for these costs as a cost for the company's activities. By imposing the so-called weekend tax on the owner of a company or the relevant official, even if he is not the owner of a company, he may not be able to prove that with his salary income he can cover the cost of transport, of fuel. Just to tell you what absurdity we can get to, for the simple reason that someone by some strange methodology will decide when the car is used for business purposes, when for some other type of purpose, for example, for a holiday. However, in modern conditions and the century of high technology, modern businessmen, people who are engaged in business can even during their rest work communicating with different points of the world and, naturally, using their service transport. This is under this element of the Corporate and Income Tax Act. I would also like to draw your attention to the Transitional and Final Provisions, where proposals are made to amend and supplement the Local Taxes and Fees Act. Very interesting is the proposal to change para. Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, 10 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which includes the so-called agricultural land, within construction boundaries. Here we are already entering a very serious colony and contrary to two laws. The first is the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, according to which all these owners of this type of land in regulation, within construction boundaries, if I have to be more precise, first, are entrusted with very serious obligations for the conservation of these agricultural lands, very serious costs for the conservation of these agricultural lands, including monitoring the oxidation of the soil, for the protection of hydromeliorative facilities and whatever comes to mind. Moreover, under the Agricultural Land Conservation Act, these owners, and here we are already entering into this serious contradiction, have the right to enjoy tax preferences. But now we're going to the next colony. What does she express herself in? And under the current Law, the land under regulation, the properties under regulation, within the construction boundaries, are subject to tax, but, note, it is these agricultural lands, which, if I must be more precise, are extremely attractive pieces, many of them fall into the so-called Natura 2000. Many of them fall into this particular Natura 2000, but under the Law on Construction on the territory they have a special regime of construction in them, as well as under the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. They cannot be built beyond the needs of the object of the activity of these agricultural lands. Moreover, the only construction envisaged in the Law is that a building can be built within 10 square meters. m to serve the activity, and if it is 20 decares, 20 sq. M. Very complex is also the process of changing the status of this type of land, which is listed in the first to tenth category. I ask, first, the importer, what is the financial effect of this proposal? What effect will be achieved? Is this proposal even applicable, or are we gonna bet someone we don't even know who we're gonna bet? There is no such answer, there is no such financial justification made under the Law on Legislative Acts. More than that. If we apply the Cadastral Act, which has not yet been implemented to date, and it turns out that many citizens are losing their properties. Many citizens lose their properties because they've been put into some weird property recovery card. It turns out that not only will there be no financial revenue for the municipalities, but on the contrary, we will bring the municipalities into a very serious financial cost. Things aren't well thought out here. I accept the second part of the Appendix, which already concerns the so-called agricultural lands, which, however, have long since been described as tourist settlements. The example with Pamporovo, with the surrounding settlements such as the Stoykas, is very indicative not to list them to you, which are exactly farmland and forest areas, but they develop a perfect tourist activity. Strangely, however, for years no one has taxed this activity. In this part, I accept the amendment and will support it, but I say again that in terms of agricultural land included just like that, without any explanation and without any financial estimate, I will have to vote on this text. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the Bill of Change in the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals submitted by BSP colleagues. I will support this bill, although I have my remarks, which, naturally, we will comment on and make them as proposals at second reading. In order to be more precise and to be understood by the Members of the Chamber, firstly, a long time ago it was necessary to introduce an unalterable minimum, because data from Eurostat also shows that the population in Bulgaria is becoming poorer and poorer. That is, we do not foresee or pursue any targeted policy, unfortunately, for years, on increasing the incomes of the population. For years here I have included all governments for at least the last 15 years. But at the same time we constantly burden the tax burden, prices are constantly growing, and the most damaged are the people in the small settlements, who work normally for minimum wage or salary within about 400. For these people, the introduction of an indeterminate minimum is already a matter of survival. It's a matter of survival! For them, these 35 are BGN 40. monthly, believe me, it's really serious money. And we must support the introduction of this indeterminate minimum. Moreover, it will not cause the budget to be aggravated in this part. From there on, the already differentiated rates in progressive taxation must be very carefully and very accurately read. Professor Gechev is right that in Europe these rates are much, much higher, but let us not forget that business is far more developed there, and the middle class practically represents over 80% of these societies, while in Bulgaria, unfortunately, the middle class hardly exists and we must approach carefully in this part in order not to prove that we can really affect the middle class and not encourage it. So I will personally support this Law by, again, repeating, between first and second votes, discussing some changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u71	There's no DPS...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u72	Mr. Dimitrov, there are no other groups. Is there any desire from the DPS or any other group to take an attitude? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, you're next on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We will support the Law of the Council of Ministers concerning corporate taxation for the following main reason. It has what we care about most, namely the preservation of the basic taxes in Bulgaria. The 10% corporate tax remains 10%, the flat 10% personal tax remains that. That's what matters to us. There are annoying texts that should, however, be dropped, the effect of which on the budget would be even negative, me, if you ask me. Colleagues talked about the weekend tax, talked about the garden tax absolutely unnecessary things. The reduction of cash payments from 15 thousand to 5 thousand leva would serve mostly banks. Imagine a man in the village if he goes to buy a car, he doesn't have a bank account. Both he and the seller have to open their bank accounts to make the transaction. Colleagues, that's not necessary! Let the decline be from 15 thousand to 10 thousand leva, to be gradual, not to say people for reasons that this is done for the benefit of the banking system. In addition, for a weekend tax to come up with at least one relief, not to be 70-30, but to be at least 80-20 and not to be up to 5,000. BGN, the threshold to be higher. Let's say $20,000. lv. Let's think seriously about such suggestions. I see your colleagues at the Ministry of Finance are recording, which is good. Regarding BSP's proposals. My colleagues and I found out where BSP's inspiration came from. They saw this progressive taxation in Greece and saw the result. That's where the rate goes up to 42%. Recently BSP went to Tsipras and returned with the best ideas implemented in Greece with disastrous consequences. That is, which now supported the ideas of BSP by the Bulgarian Parliament, directly supports the destabilisation of the Bulgarian economy. Flat tax is the best income tax. Even in times of crisis, revenue increases each year. So, colleagues, if you want destabilization of public finances, support BSP's proposals! Any one of them will do you good! But if you're a responsible MP, don't touch the working policies, don't touch the flat tax! And finally, I want an extension of the time of the Reformation Block, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u74	Continue the time of all parliamentary groups! Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, would you like to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My colleagues on the left look like they want to raise taxes, but to us on the right, it doesn't look like us. Unfortunately, the last few weeks we have been constantly offering various tax increases. It wasn't a tax harmful food, tax on taxis, we're going to raise the wine, now the last thing that comes in today and we're discussing is the so-called tax weekend. I will refer to two very specific aspects of it, other than what the other two colleagues have said. The first, I do not know why it is rushing with the introduction of this weekend tax, as I think it should be introduced from next year, if any, because we must go through a derogation procedure. This derogation procedure shall take a minimum of eight months. This is the average for the European Union. At the time of this derogation, we are not allowed to use changes in legislation. This means that if we adopt this legislation and some are taken any measures under it, they will fall into court because we do not have permission for such a derogation, which is also the procedure for changing the tax. The other problematic thing that I saw in the proposals themselves is related to the so-called "global". If you have declared that you have 30% personal use, but an inspector came and said that you have 32% personal use, then the fine is actually the remaining 68%. You're fined for 100% of the tax credit, which is not comparable to the very violation you committed, say 2%. Secondly, it is very subjective how it will be determined and why it should be determined by a methodology of the Ministry of Finance these rates. I don't think there can be a single rate. If we decide to introduce this weekend tax, this should happen after further debates. It should be introduced from next year and there should be at least two or three thresholds, not 30%, we should have 10, we should have 20, 50, 15, 30, 50. There should be different options, not just one specific option and it should oblige the business to comply with these things. Business must be tolerated. We've secured stability for the last year. Now we must also ensure stability for the business environment itself. We can't raise taxes in any way. Business must make jobs and added value to the economy. We're, unfortunately, working in the opposite direction, I can't figure out why. The other two specific problematic proposals that I see in the Bill are related to the recovery of VAT for farmers, which is postponed. The faster recovery should have taken place this year, which is coming, but is postponed for two years when it is also the deadline of the directive. I cannot understand why this postponement is because the state had made this commitment. Why can't it be fulfilled now? I'm interested in someone answering that question. The third thing is also related to the return of VAT. I also want to understand it is not to return VAT more quickly to farmers, but to companies participating in European railway projects to return VAT more quickly to them. Over the next five years, there will be projects worth 5 billion related to railway construction under various euro programmes. We're talking about a billion dollars in VAT here. I can't understand why the participants in such projects would have this advantage over the entire remaining business?! Why do they have to have such an advantage over any other business I don't understand, and I'm interested in someone answering that question. I personally will not support this Bill, as it must be cleaned up. There's some disturbing stuff in there. Unfortunately, there are things in there that we need to support, but I don't know why they're all together in one place. Because of the proposals I have made, it must not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there lines? Mr. Hristov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! More of the things I will share with you have been commented by my colleagues. I will support the Corporate Income Tax Bill at first reading, but from now on, I say that between first and second votes, I will probably put forward proposals together with colleagues in some directions. This bill will have support from the point of view of maintaining the current rates regarding the taxation of personal incomes, as well as the incomes of companies or corporate taxation. There is another good trend that is maintained, namely an extension of the possibility of applying the reverse charge mechanism for value added tax in grain transactions. It worked. Extending the opportunity to enjoy it is a positive thing. My reservations are to the so-called weekend tax. There we will probably make a proposal for a ratio of 80:20, as said by colleague Martin Dimitrov, but with a request to the Ministry of Finance, if it is fixed, there will be no additional paperwork, reports and so on. If, after all, the plenary accepts 70:30, it may remain, but it may be sufficient and not to fill in additional declarations, travel sheets or similar things that complicate the reporting. As far as so-called cash payments are concerned, I have labored to check what European practice is, because the reasons for the bill say that this was a practice in European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria and Germany, I stress that in Germany, which we like to set as an example, there is no cap on cash payments. The proposal of the Reformation Block is to make a smooth reduction of the sum of 15 to Ten thousand. BGN, not abruptly at 5 thousand. lv. Let's see what the effect will be and next year you can think about another decrease. As far as the other tax under discussion is concerned, which I categorically, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, oppose, is the so-called tax garden. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we reach for the most vulnerable part of the Bulgarian population, the people who have gardens on half a decare, decare or decare and a half and feed on their products. We will not support this proposal and we will propose that it be removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Christov. The Reformation Bloc colleagues have no more time. Is there a line to Mr. Christov? I won't. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I stand before you to support BSP's proposals left Bulgaria and especially for the transition from proportional to progressive taxation of personal incomes. Today, several new MPs took an oath to a half-living parliament. I wish he didn't die so fast! Why am I doing this qualification? Because parliamentaryism itself has emerged as a center where citizens' tax obligations must be discussed and discussed by people who are representative of the moods in society. The fact that this discussion is held without the participation of the government, the government, in the face of the largest party, without interest from the media shows that this discussion does not really matter! Then he asks: what is the meaning of the Bulgarian Parliament?! Whether it's going to be 240, 120, or fewer people. Many said there was no political discussion in the elections. So what a political discussion there is especially in parliament to expect that elections are not just a trade of influence, but a matter of political choice! This degradation is going forward and you are gradually bringing us back in time more than two or three decades ago for Bulgaria, with this difference that the restriction of political freedom was then paid with a decent standard of living, with some certain life prospects, perhaps without great opportunities, but certainly for people. It seems that even migrants who want to go to Sweden, passing through Bulgaria, unlike Mr. Martin Dimitrov, have realized that where there is a progressive tax, it is better than here where there is a flat tax! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] These are the facts: they do not want to benefit from the flat tax policy, from the low proportion of the budget redistribution, because there will probably not be any, either for other activities or for them. This is the Bulgarian reality, seen not only from the outside but also through the eyes of many Bulgarians with medium and low incomes. It must be understood that it is high time for us to move on to progressive policy. The brightest expression of this progressive policy is progressive income taxation, because the world has moved from proportional to progressive taxation. My fellow Members have pointed out that it is difficult to set an example of some developed or rapidly developing country that continues to be held captive by this neoliberal policy, because flat tax is the result of neoliberal policy, including with regard to corporate taxation and taxation of individuals, so that capital can function unhindered so that the parties can find themselves and fully provide conditions as it wants, expecting faster development. If there have been such effects in Bulgaria, they have ended. Today, the question is how to create a fairer distribution, but not just a fairer distribution, but an allocation in a working economy. You want to prove to us that Bulgaria will be the first successful example of a country that almost does not develop an economy, even less modern and can only with some conservative financial means to ensure the welfare of its citizens and the development of the country. That's not gonna happen, and I guess you don't believe in it yourself. The other important fact is that we need to reduce drastic social inequalities. And for a reason we offer you for people who receive income up to BGN 1550, their taxation should not be affected. On the contrary, those who receive lower income will be able to obtain relief due to the non-taxable minimum. And the second fact is that unlike your claims, you can say that our accounts must be adjusted, but we have roughly calculated that if this tax scale is introduced, a positive transitional effect of about 200 million can be ensured. lv. Each year for the budget. Regardless of tax benefits, social groups with low incomes will also have additional indirect effect due to the reverse redistribution of the state budget through VAT, excise duties and profit tax. And last but not least, that we are introducing, apart from progressive and family income taxation, because better opportunities are being created for families who raise children to have a slightly more available income. It's the philosophy of the Bill. We are ready to look at different steps - simpler, smaller, larger in view of the steepness of this tax scale, but this only matters if the bill is supported in principle. And I appeal to these bills to be supported by the parties that are declared left-wing by the parties that are declared centrist and liberal by the parties that are declared patriotic. Let us let GERB and the Reformers support this right-wing, outdated not only conservative but also outdated policy. And if it prevails, it will be at the heart of the budgetary policy of Bulgaria for next year as well. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u80	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I think it is unacceptable for you to use such qualifications as you started your speech. That's one. Secondly, believe me, you're a lawyer I respect, but you're not an economist, at least a financier. Don't say things that... I said for a reason that we would support one part of your bill, and we would think about another part. Moreover, we have prepared proposals that have been tabled very, very long ago since November last year. Because it is very easy to say:..We will introduce progressive taxation, provided only 5-6 years ago so zealously defended the so-called capital tax.............................................................................. However, what we are going to do is, firstly, encourage exemplary families to raise children for this country in the future. Because if there are no educated children, we won't talk about economics at all tomorrow. And what is more, since we are clearly aware that with the introduction of an indeterminate minimum, we can do one damage, to abuse this indeterminate minimum, at some point to prove that everyone is working on a minimum wage, precisely for this reason we will introduce a mechanism that simultaneously stimulates the exemplary working Bulgarian families, both to fill the treasury, so that these families can be stimulated, to insist the employer to provide them on real wages, so that afterwards there may be also what benefits to receive for the first, second, third child. That's the point, not just mechanical: let's pick up here now. I, in this mechanism that you propose, cannot participate as an economist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u82	Second line? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u83	Madam President! Mr. Bajraktarov, I don't need to be an economist or an education financier in order to argue with certain economic and financial ones, because I think you didn't disprove any of them. Only in your line did I understand that you have another view of how to alleviate taxable income of persons not by the classical method of the non-taxable minimum. I have also thought about it in the years we have even offered such more flexible options, if we have to discuss your ideas in order not to abuse this mechanism, because it should not lead to demotivation to work, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is the most important for people with relatively low incomes, not those with high incomes. But these are questions for second reading, so they do nothing to contradict the principles and proposals given in the Bill. For this reason, I believe that this does not dispel the reasons for its support in both you and most of the other MPs. Here the main thing is to take the important step and I have always maintained this tax policy myself. What we at BSP are already in debt is to prove that not only are we proposing this change now, but if we have enough support from the people we will apply it as a management policy. And we will not apologize with coalition formats, with internal or external adverse conditions or that the timing is not the best time. But this is part of another discussion, it is a discussion with our voters, with our supporters. She's not part of the answer to your line. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u84	Any other MPs? Are there any willing to participate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I will take into account the proposed Law on Corporate Income Tax Law submitted by the Council of Ministers and so strongly defended by the right-hand side of the Chamber. It is offered to us with several arguments and motives that, you see, this improves our tax legislation and translates with the requirements of certain European directives. What are the concerns of us on the left? First, there was no conversation in the debate about why changes are made under art. Art. 184, Art. 189 under the Corporate Income Tax Act. Colleagues, they are aimed precisely at promoting investment in the production of activity in Bulgarian municipalities, where there is an average unemployment rate of 25% higher than the national average. At the moment, with the adoption of this Bill, we will change this regime and introduce new requirements that will eliminate the automatic use of tax reliefs for investments in these types of regions of the country. I believe that, as a country like Bulgaria with a weaker economy and with relatively low competitiveness, the elimination of this type of stimulus damage. Moreover, we need an active tax policy and instruments to encourage the development of the more backward regions of the country. Just for reference, you can look at the developed Western European economies and see that in their history they have used very often precisely this type of tools and policies, extremely protectionist in order to achieve their economic development and indicators at the moment. I do not wish that we could easily accept the European Commission's growing intervention in national tax legislation, as each of the countries in the European Union is quite different. What else do you do with the proposal for the Corporate Income Tax Act? You're essentially changing to five more bills. You're doing it with the transitional and closing provisions. You're doing this to escape a debate about the nature of the proposed changes. I would like to say to you that we will strongly object and will not support the proposals you make in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. 10 which provides for the taxation of agricultural land which are of unchanged use within the construction boundaries of the settlements. I consider it extremely unserious for the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance, firstly, to be absent from this discussion, secondly, to make such a type of proposals without having the necessary financial justification. We asked the question: what is the expected effect on the fissure of this proposal? There is no answer to that question. We are extremely worried about the possibility of being faced with the situation in which we were in a cabin. You know that the administration and collection of this tax may prove to be a greater cost than the revenue we expect from it. At the same time, however, nothing is offered in the Local Taxes and Fees Act on determining how to form the municipal waste charge, for introducing a fairer way of calculating and paying it, the introduction of a mechanism bound by the amount of garbage that the pollutant pays. Especially for right-wing economists who have been constantly living in this type of discussion, I guess they do not meet with the Bulgarian entrepreneurs, who in every conversation will explain to you that basically the formation and determination of a household waste tax currently plays the role of investment tax. The more you invest, the more you have the reporting value of the company's assets, the greater the fee you pay. At the same time, we will also object to the envisaged elimination of tax relief in art. 24 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which provides for the removal of the energy efficiency relief, not to be made for those who have used public funds to implement the renovation of buildings. There is nothing wrong in principle if you had not misled the Bulgarian citizens with your announced national campaign for sanitization, when we explained that this would essentially lead to raising people's taxes. You denied it. Here's the fact, by increasing the tax base, by removing the preference used by obtaining a certificate of an energy-efficient building, people will basically pay more taxes. We will not support the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, which introduce a new order for declaring and using assets that can be used for personal needs by staff, by third parties and the possibility that they may not be given the possibility of a 100% deduction of the tax credit. Basically...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u86	We understand your thesis, Mr. Boychev, you've delayed the time. It's already extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u87	Yes, yes, I am ending... tax changes that do not improve the business environment and competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u88	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I invite the MPs to the House to vote. Since a total of four laws have been debated at this point, I will put them to the vote at the time of their submission to the National Assembly. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on personal income taxes, No 554-01-85, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015. Vote 162 MPs: 44, Against 107, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on personal income taxes, No 554-01-96, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 21 May 2015. Vote 162 MPs: 66, against 83, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 554-01-130, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. Vote 162 MPs: 48 against 85, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 502 01-84, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. Vote 162 MPs: 102, against 33, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against the bill tabled because with one draft by the government an attempt was made not to have a full discussion in the National Assembly on where Bulgaria is going, on who pays and who drinks! [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Bulgaria today... [[Laughter, loud noise in the hall.]] Good of you to come back to life. Fine! You're still alive. [[Noise and lines.]] In Bulgaria pay the poor, pay the bill, and right government, right government and families around it consume and drink their 12-year-old whiskey [[noise and lines]] With the salmon, with caviar, and people don't get a chance to send their kids to school. I voted against it, because you are confirming the tax policy, as you raised taxes on people with minimum wages - 300,000 people, so now you are returning the memory of what you did in 2010. The tax shack, now the tax garden, tomorrow the church tax. [[Noise and lines.]] But the bad news is that more and more people understand that this policy leads Bulgaria nowhere, that this policy will lead the treasury to take the barefoot church and to need new and new credits to bury Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u90	Second negative vote, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! Surely you are not surprised that I voted against this Law and could not vote for it first, with the scandalous experience that with one Law many other laws should be passed. And if it had not been for the firm position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party this experience would have passed. And just because we stood up to you, we managed to get even the least people to hear who offers normal social laws and who rejects them. I voted against this Law because you are once again trying to make things easier to collect from those who cannot defend themselves and give to those who pay you for being here. I can't support such laws. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u92	Third negative vote, Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u93	Madam President, colleagues! I voted against this draft because once again we are voting on something in a Chamber which is contrary to the Law on Laws.. A Bill which is not accompanied by a financial justification, by an impact assessment, and, of course, a Law which is contrary to all the rules and, of course, to the Directive. Here, in the debate, it came up that the proposed changes contradict the directive and I believe that with this we will have a problem with the VAT tax on goods and services when used for personal consumption. There is no problem and in the current Law there are texts that can be used by the administration, and it can benefit from these cases, but it is not at the moment given the opportunity for administrative arbitrariness, for more pressure from the administration, which will, of course, bring both administration and business and citizens into additional tax cases and additional costs and administrative arbitrariness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure to put to the vote the period between the first and second reading of the Corporate Income Tax Act to be six instead of seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u96	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 136 MPs: 104 against 28, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: CHANGES IN COMMITMENTS. Up to now, four proposals have been made in the National Assembly. With regard to the colleagues who took an oath today, I expect proposals by the end of the day from the Parliamentary Group of GERB, so that tomorrow as a first item we can distribute their participation in the various permanent committees of the National Assembly. The first at the time is the proposal of the MP Borislav Iglev with the following Project of the National Assembly ? RESPONSIBILITY? to complete the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Velizar Penkov Enchev as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Statements? I won't. I put the proposal to the vote. They voted 119 MPs: 29, against 74, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mr. Mikov: Project ? RESPONSIBILITY? on changes to the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski as a member of the Health Committee. 2. He elected Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov as a member of the Committee on Health. We are talking about internal shifts in the quota available to the group of BSP left Bulgaria. We vote, fellow Members. 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on changes to the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Messages The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 22, para. 4 in connection with art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 2. He elected Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. We vote. Vote 118 MPs: 100, against 4, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. And the final offer: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 22, para. 3, p. Article 2 in conjunction with Article 2 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications................................................................................. [[Noise and lines.]] In fact, colleagues, by importer were two separate projects for a decision with one to release Mr. Kadiev and with the other to choose Georgi Turnovalyski, but I voted the work project which unites the two projects of BSP left Bulgaria, so there is nothing to vote on. Mr. Kadiev has been released and we have chosen Mr. Turnovalysky in his place, and we have finished completing the composition of this Commission. Next item in our program: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXPECTS AND TASKS. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u97	Madam President, procedure to allow Mr. Feizy Bekir to be admitted to the Chamber.. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Mrs. Desislava Trifonova, Mrs. Svetlana Genova and Mrs. Tsetska Docheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u98	We are voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u99	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on excise and tax warehouses. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u100	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u101	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for the creation of a new § 1. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 1 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: The Director of the Customs Agency shall issue binding instructions for officials in the structure of the Agency for the single application of excise legislation under the functions and powers of the Agency under this law, after having received a preliminary opinion from the Minister of Finance. (3) Mandatory instructions under para. 2 may also be issued by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u102	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 77, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u104	We vote § 1, which becomes § 2. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u105	The proposal of the MP Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 3, and shall propose the following version: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." "Licensed warehousekeeper' is a person who, in accordance with the provisions of this law, has obtained a license to produce and/or store, to receive and send excise goods under suspension of excise duty. 2. point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. The following conditions shall be met at the same time: (a) is legally and economically independent from any other distillation facility and does not carry out its activities under a licence granted; (b) has a total capacity of up to 500 litres including, where ethyl alcohol (rakia) is produced from grapes and fruits - their own production of natural persons, for their personal and family consumption up to 30 litres of ethyl alcohol (rakia) per year per family. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 14 the words of a single trader or a registered trader shall also be deleted after the word "products' shall be added, either by a special method of ethyl alcohol and ethyl alcohol. 4. A t is created. 23a: 23a. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 5. point 37 is amended as follows: ..37. A heat output product is a heat output product that is used directly or through a transmission environment. The heating energy product shall include all cases where energy products are burned and heat obtained is used, except: (a) for purposes other than those under point (a) 10 and 33a; (b) for purposes other than motor fuel or heating fuel. 6. A t is created. 38a: It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Legally and economically independent specialised small distillery site is a person under art. 57, para. 1 who is not related to a person who is the producer of ethyl alcohol(cancer). 7. They're creating a t. 58, 59 and 60: "58." Energy from renewable sources is energy from renewable non-emergable sources: wind, solar energy, energy stored in the form of heat in the ambient air, air-thermal energy, energy stored in the form of heat under the surface of solid soil, geothermal energy, energy stored in the form of heat in the surface water, hydrothermal energy, ocean energy, hydroelectric energy, biomass, renewable gas, waste gas and gas from waste water treatment plants. 59. The majority shareholder or shareholder is a person who owns more than 33 per cent of the shares, respectively, from the company's shares. 60. The total amount of the claims incurred by the customs authorities shall be determined on the basis of the information provided by the customs authorities in accordance with the rules laid down in this Article.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u106	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 I am making a proposal to amend the text in § 3, art. 4 t. 8 point (b)........................................................................................................... to accept................................................................................................................................................ My motives are relevant to the realities of more than 100 settlements in Sliven region and thousands in the country. My motives are in support of small producers, farmers, people living in the country, not to restrict their rights. On the contrary, give them the opportunity to produce what they live with. I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u108	So, what's it going to be like? It's going to be like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u109	"30" with "40". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u110	- What's the line? Here's your first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u111	Thank you, Madam President. We have had a very thorough discussion in the Commission on this matter. There were also business representatives there and it was decided that Data were submitted that the average installations used and not included in the column I think that "500" is a number that we should stick to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u112	Second line? A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u113	Dear Mr. Chobanov, thank you for referring to the opinion of the business, but my consideration is extremely relevant to what the people of the small towns expect. I believe that our decision is in line, above all, with the citizens we are here for, not because of those we should be helping to do their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u114	Any other MPs? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u115	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, once again we are witnessing the spending of tax laws which have been made to pluck the poor citizen anyway. We just decided that if the old lady was looking at her fries on the spot, she'd have to pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u116	You are deviating from the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u117	I beg you very much, Madam President, I am arguing with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u118	I understand that you have an audience on the balcony, but please stick to what you need to say in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u119	Thank you for paying attention. Now I'm going to say a little more passionately that I hadn't noticed them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u120	Fine, but Mr. Iankov has to give the floor to the employees, not he has to explain what's going on in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u121	Madam President, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u122	Go ahead, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u123	The second thing I want to tell you is that what you put inside as a total capacity of 500 l, I ask: what are we going to do with those big villages that, due to flexibility and lack of harvest, have several cauldrons, for example 2, 3 times 180 l? What do we do with them.. will they light the cauldrons, throw them out or destroy them? The third thing I understand is that the majority here, on the right, is used to drinking whiskey. [[(Shouting from GERB and RB:]] But there are people who prefer to drink brandy and these are poor people. These are the ones you're trying to collect their last dimes on right now. I'm offering you, since we're going like this, because there's no way we can make an excise duty on pickles, let's introduce value added tax on pickles. For example, over 100 jars to be paid, because this way, we will introduce some equality. Please! Let's come to our senses and at least what Mr. Ivanov suggested that you go up to at least 700 liters, accept it, because otherwise it really happens that the poor will pay for the rich to drink his whiskey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u124	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u125	Thank you, Madam President. I think that on such an important bill, emotion should be handled, not talked with emotion, but spoken pragmatically. In terms of benefitting from the proposed changes. First of all, I would like to make a proposal for changes to point at the very beginning. 8, and in point (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) and (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) In fact, what are we pursuing with these changes, honourable Members? Thus, the proposals, first of all, create an environment that is extremely fit for the development of a gray sector, an illegal sector and, most importantly, a corrupt environment. Because here we already have to talk with exact numbers, with accurate data, to make it clear to you what this is about. Officially, over 2410 rural cauldrons are registered. Their capacity is up to 1000 l. Their capacity is up to 1000 l! These rural cauldrons, as registered sites, first, fill the municipal house once. Secondly, it is good to know that for each liter, which is produced for domestic consumption, are paid BGN 2.20. So far, the current text with 30 l enabled the treasury to enter BGN 66. for family. I'm asking: why shouldn't they come in 110 leva?? I don't think it's worse to have 110 leva coming in.? This sector to be enlightened, to know that people do not hide, to observe the Bulgarian tradition. Believe it or not, anyone who has decided to impose a restriction on the Bulgarian tradition is mistaken, especially when it comes to cooking homemade brandy. I'm telling you this heartfeltly, because not only will there be no effect on this thing, the opposite will first be closed over 2/3 of the cauldrons in the villages, which will immediately open up an environment for smuggling. For smuggling! It's a misconception that if you see it, it's 350 grand. tons of grapes and half of them were going to produce spirit drinks, and the other half was disappearing, and that's not true. Where did the dessert types of grapes that come to your table at the table of Bulgarian tourists go, is that not grapes? Who's reading him? What do you mean, someone decided that the other 160.. 170 thousand. Ton, you see, they were going for homemade brandy. That's absolutely not true! No one gave you statistics on the export of Bulgarian grapes, and believe me it is not bad at all, at least the last two years. I hope you will support my proposal because it, first of all, brings financial benefits, secondly, enables the Bulgarian residents who live in small towns to quietly grow these vineyards, to develop them and thus no funds under rural programmes, especially in an area such as the Stara Zagora region. There is not a single euro in the Bulgarian village. Just a week ago, Mr. Tomislav Donchev answered correctly that for the Bulgarian village in these municipalities there are no funds. Are we supposed to take that away from these people too?! This is one Professor Stankov will confirm it, developed wine region. Do we have to close the cauldrons in this area? Or should we close the pots in Burgas? The right proposal is.000 liters..50 liters.................................................................................................. This is the right proposal, which also brings benefits to municipalities and a calmness for this sector to be enlightened. I hope you will support this proposal, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u127	Thank you. I would like to make a reply, first of all, to Mr. Bajraktarov and to tell him that his proposal from From its own production of grapes and fruit! This offer just withdraw it! It cannot and must not be discussed, because it is discussed, ordained when entering the European Union, and we have no right and reason to review it now. As far as your other proposal is concerned with 1000 liters, my opinion is that a 1000 liters cauldron already resembles industrial production rather than homemade brandy from its own fruit. We all know that the so-called Rakidjiniks, with their equipped and chain of Rakidjiniks, are one of the elements of both the gray economy and the fake-racies that are produced without excise duty, without taxes and which is by no means a brandy produced by the people's own production. Here and on the left, arguments were given again in the name of the poor people, which we want to deprive of the rakia of the joy of the people, only that under these poor-migrant fairy tales is practically hidden, for me, the lobby of illegal producers of brandy. [[(Noise, applause and cheering by BSP LB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u128	Any other lines to my colleague Bayraktarov? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u129	Mr. Bayraktarov, you have very well argued the things you said, you have only missed one thing and I will ask Mrs. Menda Stoyanova to tell her that we really are lobbyists of all those Bulgarians who love homemade brandy and who think that this is a way in which they can at least touch things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u130	Is there a third line? Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, according to the first part of your reply you are indeed entitled that the directive is 30 liters, so I am making a change in the back of my jacket from In terms of the thousand litres, which is total capacity, not one cauldron, but the total capacity, because this can be several cauldrons, which, in order for people to have some profitability, have a total capacity of 1000 litres. Moreover, if you would listen to me carefully, Mrs. Stoyanova, I said that these 2410 Rachians, as you called them, are officially registered. They don't smuggle. They're registered and paid. As for lobbying, believe me, you will always see a lobbyist of Bulgarian national traditions. It is a Bulgarian national tradition and I apologize very much, but I do not accept your claim. On the contrary, a change in the capacity of This serves the designated circles of this alcohol business, which does everything possible to put his hand only and only him to be the only one. By the way, smuggled alcohols have not been found in such........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'd say that's where the contraband is, not in the warlord. Let's let them keep our traditions calm, let's not tell them the names of the famous Bulgarian brandy. The most important thing is to use, as this strong brandy is said, the first one, for medical purposes, as our grandparents and our mothers did when they treated us from a common cold. That's the point. Otherwise, for the 50 liters, I accept your line as valid and I make a change from the.50s to remain.30 liters..... so that it is really in line with the directive..........................I have no dispute with you here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u132	So you're not suggesting anything in the second part?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u133	No, it's still 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u134	To speak, the public representative Emil Dimitrov, after him, Dimitar Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u135	I'm sorry to start this way, but there's no way. Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! The election's over. There is a budget to be adopted, and everyone in this room will come out and talk about how the money should be increased for social, mothers, children, grandmothers and so on, and no one will stop the defense, security, but first we have to collect it. It's nice to be ignorant, but if you keep quiet, there's no one who can understand it when you say it, it's bad. Now, let me explain what's going on with the first one and we'll move on to the essential part. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is methyl alcohol. Ethyl is what is used and methyl alcohol, if you check in encyclopedia and Google uncle, is a contact poison, even harmful to use. As for alcohol, imagine, gentlemen, that I produce grapes and give one person a basket to sell to another too. One brings me ten levs, the other brings me one lev. The one who brought me ten levs must beat him that he did not bring eleven, or the one who brought one lev, I must ask him where the other nine are. The production of grapes in Bulgaria in this case is 400,000 tonnes on average, half of them 200 thousand of them, go to the already listed bad, illegal, mafia and whatever you want smuggled vinproms, but these vinproms pay taxes, pay insurance, pay salaries. Can you imagine, some of them even stick Banderoli. And in the end, after they collect their profits, these vinproms import 185 million into the state budget. lv. of 200,000 tonnes of grapes, Let's see what other vinproms do that don't work for their own production. They sell it, they run a business. When they do business, they give me 185 million, whether I like them or not. The state is there, customs is there, NOI is there, everyone is there and they import 185. What do we do with the others? They consume 200,000 tons of grapes, there are eight thousand vinproms of small distillation sites, of which 2800 are registered. Of these 2,800, out of a total of eight, two thousand claim to work, and the revenues from these 2000 are 100 leva per year per site. I apologize which object with column 500, 1000, 1500 and several columns 1000 liters declared me 100 leva. revenue? Do they work one day a year, do you think?! It's not like that. That's why the two hundred thousand tons are going and they're declaring £700 to me. profit, where another 100,000 goes, because people besides grapes look at fruit, of which they also make brandy, are the problem. And where is he? Up to 500 liters are the village's grandfather. So is my cauldron. They do and will continue to do, because it is his field, of two, three, five acres of vineyard and it is for his own consumption and for his purposes. And they will continue, whether you want to or not, to do so and no one is bothering with them. But now in the village, when I buy bread, they give me a note because the woman pays taxes and insurance, by buying sugar for this same brandy, I give a note because she has taxes and insurance. So, the woman who sells bread will be under control and a cash register, the woman who sells me grapes will be under control and a cash register, but someone who has 10 tons of excise equipment, you see, we'll wait for him to declare himself. So those who want to cook brandy in the village for themselves are free to boil up to 500 liters of facility.... no problem as much as they want. Those who will do business, who will take other peasants money to make them brandy, to be good to bring this money into the budget, and not just 100 leva. Who will do business, will make warheads with several columns, with a series of columns in different settlements, and we have cases in the villages when a legitimate Vinprom holder has a dozen, twenty, and a 40 cauldrons. Okay, this brandy that he's making for the poor guy, and selling it at prices... [[noise and lines]] Where's he going?! My suggestion is this: Vinproms, which are legitimate and in which the state is with all its power, if it can further control, give me 185. The rest of the illegals who haven't registered since 2009 and want to pursue a business that collects money from the people who go there to have a brandy, but somehow forget to declare it and bring it into the budget, these people should be as good as they exercise business, if they practice deals, if they want to do it, be the smartest, the richest, the best, let them be good and pay as everyone else pays. When that money goes into the budget, they'll go back to the same villagers, again to the same producers who want to buy sugar. So let the rules be the same for everyone. On the rakia of the people in the village and on my cauldron no one touches, but to those people who have made private vinproms who buy dozens of quantities and tons of foreign grapes, not their production, produce and sell to the sea fake alcohol and so on, be so good to pay because the policy has passed the elections is done with money. Social spheres, culture, education, need money. We must gather them first, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Yankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I now understand why you have been so zealously defending the changes to the Customs Act, and you voted with the majority of the police powers of officers of the Customs Agency. The first step you have taken, now you have a second step ahead of you to be able to investigate these employees, to have these police powers in order to deal with each Bulgarian household, which, on the basis of lifestyle, traditions, continues to have its own production of spirit drinks. What you are trying to do right now, masking it behind the need for changes in relation to a directive, is nothing but use this fist with police powers to enter every Bulgarian household. Is that what you're protecting?! Protecting the interest of the big producers. The ordinary Bulgarian citizen will not solve the issue of collection in the budget. You have just admitted that the NRA, the Customs Agency, do not have the capacity and cannot cope with the grey economy because you claim there is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u138	Second line supplier Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Dimitrov, it was not so long ago when Bulgaria produced over one million tons of grapes and the population aha to reach 9 million people. It wasn't that far away, and the time when all the vinproms and breweries and so on were extremely state-owned, i.e. the state had complete control over this production. Moreover, Bulgarian wines, Bulgarian cognacs brought wonderful income. It wasn't that far away when the goons were going and beating up the grape producers to sell it at extremely low prices to serve exactly the mutiny business of those who suddenly decided they were terribly affected. By whom, exactly? From the racquetballers?! Some remember these times, we know very well what this is about and the correct approach is 1000 liters of capacity, 30 liters of production. Although, if it wasn't for this directive, I would still offer 50 liters, but we have to comply with it anyway. [[Noise and lines. Partial applause.]] I can't help but say, colleagues, it's a tradition. Moreover, if we hit this tradition, it means getting the people from the villages in the basements with some strange appliances to boil brandy instead of at least knowing where this brandy boils. Another point is that it is high time indeed the Customs Agency to carry out much more serious control. However, another question is whether the Customs Agency has this capacity in terms of personnel, on human resources, on financial resources. That's another question. He has nothing to do with what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start in order. Would Customs become the Ministry of Interior? If your car is stolen, dear colleague from Varna, you will want criminal liability. If someone diverts a fuel tank for 200,000. BGN, if you can pass without a fine. There's no such thing! Double-size, like I voted excise, plus a fine. With what public danger is the one who stole your car for 1,000 leva. is smaller than the one that didn't put 200,000 in the budget. lv.? Then you'll be the first in the budget to want bigger pensions, bigger salaries and so on. In terms of capacity. I apologize, but 30 liters of alcohol, which is allowed, is not made in one ton of column. I'm so sorry. What's with the cost rate? After all, let's get this conversation back to where it was. You've got two traders, you've got two people you've been taking money from in the budget. One of them uses 200,000. Ton, he pays everything and gives you 185 million. The other one uses the same amount, another 100,000 fruits and gives you nothing. For an ordinary citizen, because someone was very sorry, let's not teach them what cauldrons to do with their brandy. They're the ones we're not hurting. Up to 500 liters of whatever modern cauldron wants to make it, let it be, let it be life and health, and cheers. But everyone above that who will do business, let them be as good as the aunt of the village who sells you the bread to give you a cash register, and let them declare their quantities. Let the citizens who don't have cauldrons go to these warlocks. They pay for it, they don't get it for free, but let the money they've put into the warlocks come in and the part that's due in the budget! Not on one side, 185, on the other side, let's go all the way to the mob! I'm so sorry. When one brings us 185 million and the other zero, I don't care about the one with 185. I'll send more in there to have footage, security, and control. But the one who brings nothing and whom you protect, and which you have repealed during your reign, and how many other rules you have repealed, I apologize very much! That's why my next fuel proposal is double fines, double penalties so that the money can get into the budget first. I won't pronounce myself on the cost side. I'm sure you're the ones you'll want for both defense and security. Not to say that we don't have 25 million for the Ministry of Interior. We'll have them and that's where they'll come from! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The people's representative Dimitar Gorov will have the floor. Will there be other speeches after that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u143	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u144	Procedure cannot be voted after 2:00. Will there be any other speeches? Will there be other speeches after Mr. Gorov? Here you go, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Some of the speakers said it had become a good debate in the parliamentary committee. Undoubtedly, but even there there were differences in whether this norm should be introduced. If this is about some lobbying, here we can note that it is about lobbying with regard to large producers. Small producers in this case are severely damaged in this situation. I don't agree with that 200,000. The tons that do not come out of the accounts, out of the grapes that are produced, all pass through the small cauldrons. One not small part of them passes through the large cauldrons, through the producers, only they do not pass with the excise banderols, colleague, and you very well know it! And here it is that it is an attempt to further reduce production in order to increase consumption by large producers. Not to mention the creation of a bureaucratic system that will have to have a notification regime and for each of the cases where some amount of alcohol will have to be produced in these so-called small Cossacks. So if we are talking about some degree and some possibility of lobbying in this whole situation, here we can attach this text from the laws to the lobbying texts that we have seen in other situations in the National Assembly, which have been promoted to protect large producers. Absolutely lobbying! He's got nothing to do with it, he's not gonna increase the revenue in the treasury in any way. These are absolute chimeras for the simple reason that this will stimulate people to produce, not in these small cauldrons, but in the courtyards and in the cauldrons that are in their houses. In no way will the way customs controlled excise goods, alcohol alcohol in this case, and from this point of view, no positive effect will have on the fissure. The only thing you're trying to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to make it more difficult for the small manufacturer and to create thousands of difficulties in making his own brandy, and he has to go and buy it from the big producer. That is the purpose of this text and nothing more! [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u146	- What's the line? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Genov. [[Heckling]] Mr. Genov, you have the floor. Colleagues, we're ten minutes out of time! The only thing we can do without other procedures is to end this item by voting, so a little more patience. Only for first reading may the vote be postponed. We're listening, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u147	Dear President, my respects to Mr. Dimitrov, but you here, of this tribune, allow yourself to deceive the Bulgarian people that hardly everyone can boil at home in a cauldron of up to 500 liters, to make some brandy. If, Mr. Dimitrov, you do not know about such cases on Customs reports, preliminary checks and pre-trial proceedings are formed immediately, so do not allow yourself from this tribune and in the morning from the TV to deceive people that they can do whatever they want and brew some spirit drinks. What's the practice so far? Many of the colleagues may not be aware of the payment of 30 litres of excise duty, 5.50 per litre. This amount is paid 11 leva. I am not the first and the last, as Mr. Bayraktarov here suspected certain people in certain lobbying interests. So our doubts remain deep in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-11.u148	Any lines to Mr. Genov? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First I will submit Mr. Ivanov's editorial proposal for the total capacity of the vessels instead of 500 to be 700. Mr. Ivanov, there is no way 30 to become 40 liters, because you are going against the directive, it became clear on the occasion of Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal. So we vote on Mr. Ivanov's proposal for the capacity of the vessels under the project 500. He's offering 700. They voted 127 MPs: 40, against 31, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal that the capacity of the vessels be instead of 500, up to 1000 liters including. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 125 MPs: 45, against 41, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: for 89, against 22, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, due to the expiry of the plenary session, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow is a regular 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
