ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Colleagues, in connection with the closing of the parliamentary session of the parliamentary groups and the management of the National Assembly are provided reports on the legislative activity and parliamentary control of Parliament during the session, as well as a study on the legislative activity of the Forty-third National Assembly. According to our weekly programme as the first item in today's plenary sitting: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PREVENTING THE CORRUPTION Against PERSONS LOADING HIGH PUBLIC POSITIONS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the committees to which the bill has been allocated. First, we will hear the report of the committee responsible for legal matters. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u2	Mrs. President, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I'll give you your attention: ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Prevention Bill corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers On 30 June 2015, the Council adopted Decision At its meeting held on 15 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502 01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Ms. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, and Ms. Maria Karabelyova, Head of the Deputy Prime Minister's Office. From the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Philip Gounev Deputy Minister; from the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman, and Mrs. Petya Dimitrova Head of the Department of Legal Affairs; from the Supreme Judicial Council: Ms. Nezabravka Stoeva Member of the Supreme Judicial Council; Ms. Marina Mihailova Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. The bill was presented by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva. This bill is in implementation of the measures provided for in the National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria 2015. The aim is to establish a working system for verification of property declarations and to establish a conflict of interest through a new single and independent and anti-corruption body. The National Bureau unites the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, the Centre for the Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime (BORKOR) and the Unit of the Court of Auditors, which accepts and checks the property declarations. Thus, the necessary link between the functions of verification of property declarations, the establishment of conflict of interest and the preparation of this basis of risk assessment analysis shall be established. The functions of the National Bureau are operational and analytical. A periodic external audit of the National Bureau is envisaged, as well as checks on the integrity of employees. The Bill aims to extend the circle of declared circumstances and the persons obliged to submit declarations. The draft Law brings together the provisions of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions and the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, opinions have been received from the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, which state their principal support for the bill. Members of the National Assembly took part in the discussion: Philip Popov, Emil Dimitrov, Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Delchev, Svilen Ivanov, Yavor Haytov, Chavdar Georgiev, Lachezar Nikiforov, Yavor Notev and Danail Kirilov. During the discussion, the MPs noted that it was necessary to refine the texts by discussing the extension of the circle of persons obliged to submit declarations, the opportunity to submit anonymous signals, the promotion of the Director and the powers of the National Bureau. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes................... 5 votes against................................................................................... and 3 votes................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Commission report on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a draft of Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee at its meeting held on 16 July 2015 examined at first vote a draft Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Ms. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, Ms. Maria Karabelyova, Head of the Deputy Prime Minister's Office, Mr. Philip Gounev, Deputy Minister of Interior. The motives of the draft Law on the Prevention of Corruption among those holding senior public positions were presented by Mr. Philip Gounev. In short, the main guidelines of the proposals made in the Draft Law related to the leading priorities for countering high-level corruption have been outlined. The main objective of the Bill is to create a working system for verification of property declarations and to establish a conflict of interest by creating a new single anti-corruption body. The bill is in implementation of the measures provided for in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the recommendations in the reports of the European Commission on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva urged the MPs to unite and support the bill of first voting. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs: Valentin Nikolov, Radan Kanev, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Georgi Kovachev, Ivan Slavov Ivanov, Atanas Zafirov, Methodi Andreyev and Krasimir Yankov. The members of the Commission have united around the need to adopt a Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials. They focused on the following discussion issues: the need for professionalism to deal with high-level corruption; the expectations of society in this direction; the formation of production by anonymous signals, which, according to the majority of the MPs, will create prerequisites for deliberate and unguilty targeting of persons holding senior public positions and others. Everyone expressed their opinion that the bill should be seriously adjusted between the first and second votes. After the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission: with 7 votes in favour and 3 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Zelenogorski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u6	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Law on the Prevention of Corruption among the persons holding senior public positions, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs. The bill is in implementation of the measures provided for in the National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria. It gives a legislative expression of the ideas enshrined in the Strategy. The main objective of the bill is to create a working system for verification of property declarations and for establishing a conflict of interest by creating a new single anti-corruption body. It is based on two law-making laws. The Law on Publicity of Property of Persons occupying senior state and other positions and the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. The law governs the principles and mechanisms for preventing corruption of persons holding senior public positions, the conditions and procedures for declaring, verifying and analysing property status, the conditions and procedures for establishing conflict of interest, as well as the status and functioning of the National Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption. The circle of persons obliged to submit declarations shall be extended to those covered by the Law on the publicity of the property of persons. Among the new categories are municipal councillors, the chief architects of municipalities, the rectors of state universities, the managers and executive directors of hospital care facilities, which are financed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the persons designated to administer and manage funds from the European Union and others. The questions concerning the proceedings for verification of the property status of the persons covered by the Law are also detailed. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the Bill, stressing that with its adoption, along with the proposed changes for judicial reform, conditions will be created to build an effective system for preventing corruption. Some of the Members of the National Assembly expressed their concerns about some of the proposed provisions providing for the formation of proceedings on anonymous signals or publications in the media, as well as the envisaged possibility in the powers of the National Bureau for the removal of mayors of municipalities. Attention was also paid to the need to fine the sanctions in the administrative penal provisions, which are differentiated in the part about the submitted declarations within the time limit, but with false content and the declarations submitted after the deadline established by the Law, but with true content. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. We also need to hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova, can you fill us in on the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u8	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. At a meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015. The bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues. By Decision No 230 of 9 April 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria 2015 The strategy focuses on the proposed reform of the institutional framework in the area of prevention and countering corruption, aimed at greater efficiency and better coordination between existing bodies and units. The bill gives a legislative expression of the ideas enshrined in the Strategy and responds to the need to create a more effective mechanism for countering corruption on the high levels of power, reflected in the recommendations contained in the reports of the European Commission on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. The main objective of the bill is to create a working system for verification of property declarations and for establishing a conflict of interest by creating a new single anti-corruption body. The Law is based on two law-making laws. The Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, and the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, retains their main provisions and, at the same time, substantial new authorisations have been proposed and a significant part of the provisions has been refined with regard to identified problems in the practice of their application. A key measure within the priority of building an effective system of anti-corruption and anti-corruption bodies is the creation of a new single independent anti-corruption body. The National Anti-Corruption Prevention Office, which is defined as an independent state body for the implementation of corruption prevention policy among senior public officials. This body unites the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, the Centre for the Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime (BORKOR) and the Unit of the Court of Auditors, which accepts and checks the property declarations. Another important measure, which is being taken with the new draft law, is the planned reform of property declarations and conflict of interest within the priority of countering corruption on the high levels of power. It is envisaged to strengthen the powers of the inspectors and to load them with functions to verify the declarations of property status of the employees in the administration. Apart from the above, the bill provides for an extension of the circle of persons obliged to submit declarations and of the circle of declared circumstances, changes in the rules for declaring, settlement of proceedings for the verification of the property status of a person holding a senior public office, allowing proceedings to be initiated on an alert, including an anonymous one, as well as a media publication, providing for the integrity checks of employees and periodic external audit of the National Bureau, a clear link between the National Bureau and the other competent authorities, improving the framework in the part of conflict of interest, reviewing the compositions of administrative infringements and the penalties envisaged, and establishing conditions for verifying the integrity of all persons holding public posts. A discussion was held within which the members of the Budget and Finance Committee agreed that, given the particular importance of the submitted Bill, further analyses and the expected financial results of its implementation should be required by the importer. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee supported the proposed Draft. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: With 12 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 3 votes abstention, the Budget and Finance Committee proposed to the National Assembly to support a Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials, No 502-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importer we are listening to Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank first of all Mrs Tsacheva and the chairmen of the four parliamentary committees on which the bill was allocated for being able to include in the parliamentary programme before the end of this session the Bill. I appreciate this commitment as a sign of respect for this Law, its importance and sense of urgency. Because I believe in the strength of the discussion and conviction, I have held meetings on the bill with all the parliamentary groups, except for the group of "Attack" which I expect to set us a good time to meet them. We also had serious discussions in the parliamentary committees. To each Member of the National Assembly, to each of you we have sent to the e-mail additional materials to the Law, the analysis carried out, the foreign experience we have used, the table for reporting opinions on the coordination procedure and the public discussion of the Bill, as well as the financial justification under it. Once again, I would like to state my willingness to discuss with each of you every text of the Bill between first and second readings. First of all, let me tell you why we need this Law. We do not need it simply because they want it from Brussels, in fact in mid-September there is a mission that will take account of Bulgaria's progress and what we have done in justice and internal order, but this is not the main one. We don't need it either because it's a political asset for one or another, and I don't feel that way about myself. We need this Law because corruption is a serious problem that plagues the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian economy. Not because every European report tells us, but because people tell us. Because we see, we know about it, we talk about it, and we never find enough willpower, strength, and consistency to change it. This is where the discussion under the Law starts. Let us clearly recognize the problems and work on their solution. I am aware that the fight against corruption does not run out of one law, that it is not a universal medicine. There's no way a law can be like that. Yes, we cannot fight corruption without real judicial reform and what is more, it is key to limit corruption just in the judiciary, because it is the last watchman of the law. And if there's corruption there, there'll be corruption everywhere. We cannot without modern and independent administration, too, without e-government, without good rules for public procurement. All these things are part of the overall picture and we're working on them. Last week, the government approved the new Public Procurement Act. I am sure that on the agenda of the National Assembly since the past weeks you can give such positive examples of what came out here to make the picture in Bulgaria better. However, I am also convinced that this Law, which we are going to discuss today, is an extremely important pillar for our anti-corruption efforts. It's the administrative countermeasures, it's prevention. This can be done through working institutions that apply the rules. The discussion today is about the rules. And I suggest that we concentrate on these rules and not on political statements at all on the topic of Corruption. And let's not look for opposition on the line of opposition..................................................................................................... Bulgarian citizens do not expect this from us. We owe them actions and results if we want to no longer live as a society divided into citizens and authorities. What does the Law offer? Creating a modern system to check the integrity of persons holding senior public positions. This means that all of us "politicians and other persons in high public positions" ministers, MPs, mayors, chiefs of agencies, committees and individuals who conduct public procurement procedures or manage European funds, rectors and directors of hospitals receiving funds from the Health Insurance Fund and so on, we will file a statement of property much more detailed than the current ones and we will be asked for, not formally, but genuinely. And, yes, we will owe an explanation. What have we found in the area of administrative anti-corruption? Multiple organs with modest results and no clear connection between them. Each of us has submitted several declarations of property and conflict of interest to various authorities. We have the Court of Auditors to which we submit property declarations. They are also published as if this is the main achievement of the public. However, the checks on these declarations are formal. The only thing you're actually looking for is whether you filed a statement and if you missed something. And that's because it's the law. The Court of Auditors shall do its work conscientiously, but shall no longer have the power to carry out in-depth checks of property. We also have a Committee on Conflict of Interest, which unfortunately has become ill-fated. Outside the scandal, this Commission is currently checking over 100,000 people and this is a legal solution. I understand the arguments for this decision. But the result is that cases of established conflict of interest are for low levels of administration employees and municipal councilors, because when you check everyone, you don't check anyone or check only the defenseless, if I may say so. Another missing point in the current Law is that when a conflict of interest is established, the Commission stops there. It does not have the authority to examine the property of the person, that is, the relationship between these two laws is lost. We also have an analytical structure in which significant funds are invested, but the results are not such as to satisfy. Therefore, a small part of the problems stem from the existing legislation. That is why with this Law we propose to remove these problems and create a single anti-corruption body "National Anti-Corruption Prevention Office." This body will bring together the Commission for Conflict of Interest, the Directorate of the Court of Auditors, which collects and checks property declarations and BORKOR. This isn't a mechanical gathering, I'm in a hurry to say. We are talking about the unification of property verification functions, the establishment of conflict of interest and analytical activity. It is more than logical when a conflict of interest is established to check the property of the person and to see if there is no enrichment. And when it cannot be explained, to refer the prosecution and the Commission to the revocation of the illegal property. I can argue from all the research that we have done and the great work related to comparative law in this area that the proposed bill is good and consistent with the best policies and practices in the field. I'm not saying he's perfect, I'm not saying he doesn't need better lyrics. Like any human creation, it can be perfected. But his complete denial that he was poorly written wouldn't be the real reason for his lack of support. I call on everyone to be honest in this debate and not to hide behind apparent arguments. I will end up with a belief that I always defend, which seems universal and applies not only to the fight against corruption. We need results. To achieve them, we must do the right thing now. We don't have time to delay looking for the perfect solution. There are no perfect solutions. There are right decisions at the right time. I believe that the Law we are proposing is one of those correct decisions at the right time, and I urge you to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The discussion has been opened. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u12	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! I always thought that reason would prevail, and this bill would not enter the plenary, or at least not in that form. In fact, unfortunately, the ruling coalition is trying to pass this extremely controversial bill on Friday, on the last working day of this plenary session, literally at 12:00 a.m. without 5 minutes. It may be hoped that the holiday mood will dull our reflexes, and these completely unacceptable texts will pass unimpededly at first reading. That's not true, of course. I will present briefly our arguments for a firm failure to support the changes proposed to us. Mine, by the way, will be no different from the position I took during the discussion in our Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. My speech will have a little more political speech, as in recent days we have witnessed in the public domain of various expert opinions, financial considerations, and I think it is not bad to say a few words about the political reading of the proposed bill. Mrs. Kuneva, first I would like to tell you that after our meetings with you, in the group and in the Commission, I have been thinking a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u13	Now that's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u14	I have spoken with many of my colleagues from different parliamentary groups, but unfortunately I say it very frankly, I have not even been able to convince myself that these changes and this body that is being created has been cleared of reasonable doubts about its transformation into a political repression body. Here I am talking about the Philosophy of the Bill, namely I cannot in any way support anything that introduces anonymous signals as a method of work. This contradicts, if you will, the Constitution and is in complete conflict with my understanding of morality and dignity. Let me quote you, honourable Members, part of the opinion of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is claimed: 35, para. 1, t. Art. 3 and Art. 74 of the bill will only lead to a daily witch hunt. [[Reply from RB: "Oooh! "]] That's the term! Quoting: The practice of continuous and daily signaling and deboning of people will be established without being able to defend themselves. Because the slanderers will be protected, and the verifiers will sink into thousands of signals and publications. Again, this is not the opinion of anyone, but the opinion of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils in the Republic of Bulgaria. Understand, the problem is not so much the anonymous signals as the ambiguity of the filtration mechanism and their movement. That's where the big problem is. Too much power is given to the director of this desk and we will turn the mechanism for establishing a conflict of interest from collective to sole. I have only read this part of the opinion, but in it very justified, on two pages, arguments are offered in the direction of not accepting such a bill. I have before me the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria to Mr. President of the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. The opinion shall also very clearly and categorically express its views in the part referred to in Article 1. 34 The additional conditions for the incompatibility of municipal councillors, and it is very well argued, provided that this bill enters into force, after the local elections, a large part of the newly elected municipal councillors will prove to be, honourable Members, contrary to these changes, which are about to be adopted now. You know how he's gonna cripple future city councils. I am sure that there will be a lively discussion on these texts, so I am moving on. First, I want to expose here an untruth that has been said, including a moment ago from the stands, that, if you see, this bill will increase the scope of the persons examined. That's not true. That's definitely not true! In the reasons it is written, and here you must correct it, because this applies only to the persons within the scope of the Law on Publicity of Property. Yes, they double, but in terms of individuals who are in potential conflict of interest, they are reduced by 105,000 employees. These are experts in municipal councils, public administration, mayors of mayors and mayors' deputies. This is a very significant weakness because those people who will now remain outside the scope of this Bureau will be checked by the identification and recruitment bodies, i.e. by local inspectors. How will you convince me that these inspectors will be protected from political influence and political interference? You can't convince me of that in any way. That is, here is another argument in favour of my reasoning that the Bill is so written and so proposed that it creates grounds for political pressure. That is, this reduction creates two groups of problems. First, the deprofessionalization of this activity. The hundreds of elected and appointed bodies, which will have the obligation to establish a conflict of interest for these 105 thousand people, do not have the necessary expertise to do so. Secondly, there is an opportunity for the establishment and conduct of the establishment proceedings in the appointing authorities for political reasons. There's something else. The initial project envisioned the new Bureau to have functions in relation to 15,000 people holding senior public positions. After the amendments to the Constitution that you have tabled, this figure falls to 10,000. I'm surprised you don't talk about it here. The draft amendment to the Constitution provides that the checks on property declarations and conflicts of interest of 5 000 judges, prosecutors and investigators should be assigned to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Is it worth making a whole new body in terms of 10 thousand people holding senior public positions, provided that those who will check the property declarations from the specialized body will only increase by 2 300? And for the conflict of interest, the circle of debtors falls 12 times from 120 thousand to 10 thousand persons. Moreover, despite the assurances of the exclusive authority's supremacy, you have introduced two new grounds for early termination of the Bureau's mandate, which puts it in a very strong dependence on the body that appoints it, in this case the Council of Ministers. This is still dangerous to politicize the work of this body and comply with certain supporting points. There is almost no mechanism to control the Bureau, the leadership of which is appointed by the Council of Ministers with a decree of the President, but unclear precisely on whose proposal. The lack of such control by the National Assembly, honourable Members, rightly reinforces fears that it may become an organ of political repression. What exactly are these notorious employee integrity checks, how will these tests be developed? In addition, there is no link between proceedings for conflict of interest and non-compliance in the financial declaration. An act establishing a conflict of interest entered into force is a reason to verify the declaration in question, but finding a non-compliance with that act does not justify the initiation of a conflict of interest proceedings. After all, the idea is to collect the two activities under one hat, one body and have a connection between them? Also, it is not clear why the Bill foresees in an established conflict of interest five times a reduction of the current minimum amount of the fine of 5 thousand. lv. up to 1000 leva.? Isn't the objective of the existing anti-corruption system in the property declarations part to be upgraded, to be developed by adapting good countries and achievements? With this reduction, this goal cannot be fulfilled. Of course, many other things can be said. I'll stop here. In conclusion, I would like to tell you, Mrs. Kuneva, it is good that when we adopt such extremely important laws on such sensitive topics, there really is a very broad consensus. I don't see that consensus right now. Take a look at the vote in the committees. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, 11 to 8 votes, the Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee, 7 to 3 votes. However, colleagues, in the absence of the MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of the Attack and of one of the BSP, who, if they were at this meeting, I guarantee you, would not have passed through our Commission. All this gives me reason not to support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u15	Replices to Mr. Zafirov? I won't. There's a word for words, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials is debated in the forty-third parliament of a country which, by the criterion of transposition of European law, is one of the first among the 28 member states of the European Union. I draw attention to the fact that Bulgaria has transposed nearly 100% of European law into its domestic legislation! How, in this situation, do we explain the paradox that a country which, by the criterion of transposition of European law, is ahead even of the founding countries of the European Union, the only country in Romania, is in the mechanism of verification and evaluation?! How do we explain this paradox? It's very simple and, unfortunately, too, too, too, unpleasant and cruel is the explanation. Even the best law cannot replace the political responsibility for its effective implementation. The problem of Bulgaria today is not so much in the imperfections of its legislation, its legislation, the problem of Bulgaria is that the laws do not apply effectively. And the best law that has fallen into a sociocultural environment that resists its application is natural that it will fail. However, there is probably a need for more legislative efforts to improve the fight against corruption, such as the worst social ulcer of Bulgarian society. Will this Law meet the objectives for which it is proposed for debate and adoption by the Forty-third National Assembly? We must not be skeptical, but our skepticism is caused by the fact that Bulgaria has a clear strategy for adopting all the laws that will make it possible for the formal membership of the country in the European Union, but the huge deficit is becoming increasingly clear that we have not invested in the integration mentality of both the authorities and the citizens in order to be not only formal but also real members of the European Union. It is clear from the reasons that this Law is proposed as an alternative to the negative experience of the work of the criminal authorities, in the face of the Commission for the establishment and prevention of conflict of interest and of the other specialized body of the Council of Ministers. I stress this fact by no reason, because in connection with the main concern not only of the parliamentary group of the DPS, which we perfectly rightly expressed at the meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, she said that it is necessary to replace the College body with one because of the negative experience associated with the collegiate body. Yes, this body was elected by the National Assembly, Mrs. Kuneva, only not flattering assessments for BORKOR, which was elected by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the fact that one of the failed authorities has been elected by the National Assembly and that is why we must now move on to the construction of a body chosen practically by the Council of Ministers has failed. This argument would be indisputable if your assessment of the activities of BORKOR was positive, and it is also negative, and clearly negative. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, both at the meeting and this morning on National Television you said something very important. You said that the main criticism that the independent body will be nominated by the Council of Ministers is not the most important issue related to the first reading of this Bill. I think that this thesis is also the problem, but also the solution to the problem. We don't agree with you! We believe that this issue is the fundamental right for first reading, because this is precisely the question of quintessence, the idea centre, the philosophy of the Bill that we are going to vote on today. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Article 6 of the Bill defines the National Anti-Corruption Prevention Bureau as an independent state body for the implementation of corruption prevention policy among senior officials. We cannot agree that it can be defined as an independent body which, according to art. 8 will be appointed and released by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on a proposal only by the Council of Ministers. This is not a definition of an independent body! This is a classic definition of a body practically directly subordinate to the Council of Ministers. This is not a minor circumstance for the most important reason that the body will fight corruption. Dear colleagues, corruption is not abstraction and countering it cannot be abstraction either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u17	You of all people know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u18	And that is precisely why we need to recall the definition of corruption. There are thousands of definitions of corruption. We won't give a scientific definition. We will say: the most important feature, the undeniable characteristic of corruption, is that it is a question of abuse of power resources................................. In any case, it's unfairly retribution, in personal gain, isn't it?! If so, we ask: who can be corrupt? Only one who has real power can be corrupted, one who exercises power, one who actually disposes of public resources. Who disposes of public resources in Bulgaria? First of all, the executive power of the Council of Ministers. Of course, the local authorities. But in any case, corruption is where the power is. And how do you explain then the paradox that with the generators of corruption will fight a body practically appointed by the one that generates corruption. What kind of independent body is that? Here I have another fundamental problem, which, in our opinion, has a direct bearing on the Constitution, towards the direction of parliamentary control. Among the persons to be checked by the authority of the Council of Ministers are the representatives of the legislative body and the Members of the National Assembly. What is this control of the executive over the legislative authority? Isn't it exactly the opposite direction of parliamentary control from the legislative authority to the executive? I will allow myself this metaphor to which I resorted and during our meeting a body designated by the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u19	Colleagues, I'm asking for more silence in this room. I don't hear Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u20	... to control precisely the Council of Ministers, it really reminds us of that song in the performance of the Wolf, which says: "When I was a shepherd and the sheep I pastured. Amidst the herd. There is no way to convince us of the independent nature of an authority that will be proposed by the Council of Ministers. There may be one single argument for this and it is as follows: today the country is governed by the good, by an a priori undisputed, good, best, only possible Council of Ministers, in which there are good, best, only possible ministers. And that's why they can choose independent bodies. Excuse me, but in politics, except today, there's tomorrow. There may come a time when there will be no good, clean, holy ministers as you are. One another may come under holy, perhaps corrupt ministers. What if they also choose the organ that will control them? Where do we get the fight against corruption? Therefore, Madam Minister, the principled position of the DPS is not in favour of this Bill precisely because of this vice, which I place only an emphasis on. Only the second is the anonymous and other considerations which will most likely be expressed in this House by other speakers after me. That's not what matters to us. We, of course, between first and second readings, as a responsible political force, if we see a correction in this basic text.................................................................................... Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 8, we can also adjust our attitude to the Bill. I repeat between first and second readings. For first reading, precisely because of those considerations that I have expressed, we are unable to support the bill. I correctly expressed the principled position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. How principled, or rather biased would be the interpretations of our principled position stand outside our political will. This is a matter of your political responsibility and correctness. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? Mr. Metodi Andreev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u22	My line will be brief. Mr. Mestan, I would look into your statement for the state's beginning if you weren't the leader of the DPS that turned the state into a corporation. [[shouts and lines from DPS]] which turned politics into corporate business. Who distributed the portions in the country! Let's remember! Who created the model?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u23	Ivan Kostov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u24	Which parliamentary group is the bearer, the symbol of this model "Delyan Peevski"? That's what I'm asking. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u25	Second line? Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u26	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mestan, I really expect your position to develop and you to support and contribute to the development as a whole of the anti-corruption system. Why? Because new legislation can be adopted, but who applies this legislation? It is equally important to me who implements the laws that affect him, that is, Bulgarian citizens and all of us. What I remember and have seen in time is that extremely many of my former fellow MPs, as a percentage of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, were the subject of an investigation, of an accusation, of removal of immunity and received sentences. That is, with this weak, ineffective fight against corruption, which we all take into account in time, it is a fact. From now on, I want to see if there is enough willpower in you, as the leader of the party, to help change this as responsible to your party and to your structure and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u27	Third line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u28	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I recall the last sentence of my speech: I presented the sincere and honorable principled position of the DPS. How principled or rather biased in view of the mythologies associated with the DPS will be your interpretations is an issue that stands outside our political will and rather raises the question of your political correctness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u29	Until now, the colleagues Petar Petrov from the Patriotic Front, Ivan K. Ivanov from the Reformation Bloc, Philip Popov from BSP left Bulgaria, Mr. Delchev from the Reformation Block, Velizar Enchev from the Parliamentary Group, Metodi Andreev from GERB, Mr. Yankov from BSP. There's more. I'll put you all on the record, but in the meantime, let Mr. Petrov speak. Mr. Ivanov has the floor until Mr. Petrov enters the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I would like to say a few words in favour of the Bill, because I believe that it is extremely important to deal with this scourge for our statehood, called "Corruption." I will speak as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission and as a person who has been purely professional in anti-corruption. I believe that the unregulated links between business and politics are tearing the public tissue apart. The dependence of the administration on the strong of the day reduces the confidence of businesses and citizens in the institutions... [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u31	Colleagues, please, the noise in this House does not allow the speaker to state his position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u32	In general, the sense of justice destroys the efforts of the enterprising, honest and responsible. After 25 years of active transition of changes the level of corruption in Bulgaria not only does not fall, but also increases its share. According to Transparency International, Bulgaria ranked 69th in the Corruption Index after all European countries, but also after many others. The so-called bonding, or I have my own man, who was living through communism, after the so-called transfer, is gradually multiplying in creating management clicks on the type of mafia structures which, by creating influence networks, with participation of parts of politics, business, media and court currently control entire sectors of the public economy. As if beyond the legitimate state there exist parallel latent structures that pull the strings in ministries, municipal councils, committees, courts, prosecutors and much of the public good is expropriated and goes into someone's pockets. In this way, with such a problem in the country, the initiative of the honest, responsible and enterprising is being killed, but something more about the line between moral and immoral, legitimate and illegitimate. In other words, the so-called high-level corruption, where the sensitive process should actually begin, remains untouchable to the many structures that have so far been created and whose aim was to limit corruption, but often the anti-corruption units themselves are being taken captive by the established corruption networks. There is no coincidence in Bulgaria in such an environment there is no investment, jobs, trust in the institutions, trust between citizens and predictability of life in the country. Corruption is everywhere, colleagues, and it's as if none of the powerful have any interest in fighting it! I believe that this Bill will make exactly such efforts and that the voice of each of us depends on whether we recognise that corruption exists and we want it to be reduced and limited in some way, or we tend to close our eyes and believe that it is not with us and does not depend on us. What are the arguments against which the opponents of the Law will most likely use and which I will try to comment in advance? One argument is that there is no need for restructuring in the anti-corruption sector and what guarantees the effectiveness of the Bureau. Here I would like to say that we have three structures at the moment - the Committee on Conflict of Interest, the BORKOR and the Court of Auditors, and the latter is clearly effective. The relationship between corruption and conflict of interest is not done, and, agree, this is ridiculous. We all file some declarations.. in the end the result is probably comfortable for us, but it is obvious that there are people who, in terms of what they declare as property and how they live, there is a gap. In general, with this Law this new Bureau unites functions rather than so restructuring or creating new structures. There is a risk of political repression and abuse of the personal sphere. This is also an argument we just heard. Of course there is such a risk, but it is high time that we try to take a slightly greater risk, to break our own management comfort, so that we can ultimately show that results, even on our backs, may be there, which down the public chain will form a greater sense of justice and morality. Another counterargument, which will most likely be heard, is the issue of anonymous signals that created conditions for abuse. Colleagues, we live in a time when the media very often publish information, often unverified, on the basis of which the prosecutors refer. In recent weeks, we've had such examples. Of course, there is a risk of entering privacy, but I say again, at the Bureau, which will be created, there will be good professionals who, by analyzing information and data, will be able to stand by their name, with their professionalism, checking these signals. This is not a new practice which, however, introduced in the work of this new institution, would indeed enable work to be done more professionally and more effectively. My fellow Members, I am convinced that the philosophy of the Law on the need for an independent anti-corruption body based on personal responsibility and professionalism, and the necessary dose of discretion to work boldly and engaged, responds to the need to bring the state back to the people by changing mentality, especially in us the class, the sense of impunity of the senior people of power. I think it's time separate for us politicians. Shall we take the last train to strike the sense of impunity and break the wicked conviction that power is untouchable? I am convinced that if we vote in favour of which I call you, we will signal the people that we are ready to sacrifice our own comfort and become subject to greater transparency and control. I am sure that the government will support the Bill at first reading, because it will be a sign that we are actually ready to confront and with our own people in power who, through fraud, there are also those who try to discredit the government itself. We have to set the limit of integrity. It also makes no sense for the opposition not to support this bill because it is aimed at possible management and corruption practices among the government, and this is the most natural desire of an opposition to have conditions for the problems with illegal practices to be placed in the public domain. If the opposition does not support this Bill, either it is toothless and conformist, or it believes that the government is clean and not tainted, in which there is no harm. The voice of each of you, honourable Members, will show on which side you will stand, and this will be seen at first reading: on the bright side of the dividing line between an honest/corruption or from the country, if I can use a metaphor from a film, the dark forces. Your voice, colleagues, will show it. I am convinced that the majority of my fellow Members will support the bill. Of course, between first and second reading there are many proposals and ideas that I hope will be taken into account by its importers, so that after its adoption at second reading in Bulgaria we give a new chance, a new impetus to the opportunity to deal with corruption, which is a great scourge for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Procedure, Mr. Delchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose extending the time to discuss this point and delaying parliamentary control after the vote on the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u35	Is there a reverse offer? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a reverse offer. Looking at the interest in this House with regard to this Bill, one of the forms of control of the legislative over the executive, concerning the topics of the Project, is precisely parliamentary control. This is not the way to take this form of control, especially to the opposition with this proposal. I am making a counterproposal not to extend the time for discussion until the adoption of this Bill and not to postpone parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u37	I put to the vote Mr. Delchev's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u38	Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues, there's a vote. I've signaled for a vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Vote 87 MPs: 32, against 40, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u39	Madam President, I want a re-vote because it is obvious that colleagues are entering, and some of them do not know what they are voting for. But I must say, today we vote to make a decision at first reading about the anti-corruption law. If we don't get it today, this thing goes after September. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, you want to signal the public that we're delaying this matter to infinity?! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u40	It's a re-vote. Have they all been able to vote in such standing? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] They voted 120 MPs: 50, against 61, abstention 9. [[Private applause.]] The offer is not accepted. Is Mr. Peter Petrov in the hall? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Kuneva, ladies and gentlemen! The question I wanted to ask Mrs. Kuneva is very brief. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It has already been discussed repeatedly at committee meetings, has been discussed in both our group and here during the discussions. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The question is: why would such a useful body, which is created in Bulgaria to fight corruption, be engaged in gossip? Mrs. Kuneva answered that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u42	Sorry, Mr. Petrov, about the interruption. Colleagues, the noise in the room is so high that those to whom the questions are addressed cannot hear them in order to be able to answer. Please, let's calm the passions down a little bit! We're listening, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u43	I ask again: why would such an important body that we create deal with gossip? The answer I expect from Mrs. Kuneva is that a nurse who has seen a major crime, how can she not report it when she is afraid of being punished?! For this thing there is a proper way to give anonymous signals and where they should be given. But a high government anti-corruption body to deal with gossip, that does not fit my mind, I cannot accept it, and with tight teeth I voted for. I voted to create such an authority because this will be another attempt to see whether or not legislation is respected in Bulgaria. Our problem is not in the authorities, but in compliance with the laws and regulations accordingly. That our National Assembly has failed to bring together the necessary majority to amend the Constitution in its part, which concerns the prosecution, is something very important as a symptom, and now that we are adopting another body, which, on top of that, has highly centralised functions collected in one person, we will see another experience. If we don't have a couple of senior politicians in place within a year, who also know that they're involved in corruption schemes, that means that this body won't work next year, if we're alive and well, and we're still here, we'll choose a new organ. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u44	Any lines to Mr. Petrov? I won't. To speak, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The objectives described in this Bill are in no way consistent with its real goals, and they are very simple: repression of a political opponent. In practice, this bill does not aim to prevent corruption and prevention, but gives new scale to corruption and improves corruption methods and practices. Eight times is reduced from 120 to 15 thousand civil servants in respect of whom the specialized body for prevention of corruption will have the right to establish a conflict of interest. The bill in practice provides for a recovery of the scattered so-called diffuse system by authorities charged with establishing a conflict of interest. In the period of January 2009 the end of 2011 of a conflict of interest for the appointments holding public positions was established by the relevant appointing authority. As amended by the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests since the end of 2010 and operating from the middle of 2011, one national authority, the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, has been empowered by its individual administrative acts to establish a conflict of interest in respect of all 120 The second system in force is, in fact, more effective than the first, since the cases identified by an act of conflict of interest are twice as many as under the previous system. In the last four years, more than 1,400 established proceedings have been initiated and more than 1,300 of them have ended with a final administrative act. This data makes no sense of the motive that, you see, the system didn't work. The project envisions 15,000 public positions designated as senior officials, the director of a new state body called the National Anti-Corruption Prevention Office, single-handedly, I repeat, to identify and sanction conflict of interest. Moreover, the reason for initiating proceedings has entered into force an act of conflict of interest, but not the other way round. Why? Aren't the goals of bringing the two proceedings together? The aim, however, is easier to launch the procedure of repression against the political opponent. On the other hand, this authorisation is controversial and with low performance expected for the following reasons. For more than 105 thousand public office holders, this state activity is carried out by hundreds of bodies that do not have the necessary specialization and expertise for the mayors of municipalities, heads of agencies, municipal electoral committees. There is a prerequisite for creating trendi-conjunctural applications of the Law. Let's say, for mayors of town halls, these are the municipal election committees. Well, I ask: are the municipal electoral committees a rhetorical question politically charged or not?! Several hundred authorities will form a diverse practice on the application of the Law, which will inevitably adversely affect the effectiveness of the application of this matter. Another point in this Bill is that the anonymous alert is the basis for the initiation of proceedings to establish a conflict of interest. It would have been better if you had put in the word "donus" because in the end that was the purpose of this bill. More would have met the objectives of the Bill itself. This legislative authorisation, if accepted, is controversial from several points of view. The right to signal a conflict of interest is a form of civil control over public authorities. However, it is balanced with the obligation of the signaler to place his name and signature under the signal. This is how this matter is regulated in the Bulgarian legislation. The valid anonymous signal is a phenomenon unknown in our current legislation. Its introduction into matter related to serious sanctions, fines, the withdrawal of part of a salary and the benefit arising from an established conflict of interest, dismissals, early termination of a mandate would provoke and encourage the deposit of any anonymous signals aimed at resolving personal, political, professional and other disputes. The law in force, I would like to point out, prohibits proceedings on an anonymous tip. It is envisaged that cases of conflict of interest will be resolved on the sole basis of an act of the Director of the Bureau. The collective form of decision is abandoned on an important issue, such as the establishment or failure to resolve a conflict of interest with significant consequences, and for persons in the high levels of power, President, MPs, ministers, Deputy Ministers. The collective body shall provide guarantees of impartiality, higher expertise and objectivity, honourable Members. The conditions for independence of the sole body are not sufficient for the Director of the Bureau, who is about to establish and sanction a single conflict of interest for persons holding senior government positions, because the latter is appointed and released on a proposal from the Council of Ministers by the President of the Republic. And notice, two new and atypical are envisaged compared to other authorities grounds for early termination of his 5-year term. One is in the event of systematic failure to comply with the powers conferred on it or a serious breach of its official function, and in the event of an unsatisfactory assessment of the independent external audit of the activities of the national bureau. These are serious levers of impact on its activities. In fact, there's robotics in a company here, I say it as a comparison, to control his employer when he gets out of work, when he gets home, does he comply with labour law? That's exactly what happens to this bill. The Director shall be responsible for the final conduct of the proceedings for the establishment of a conflict of interest. He will single-handedly appoint two rapporteurs to each file, and these will be civil servants appointed by him again, and he is appointed by the President on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which the Director must control the Council of Ministers himself. Ridiculous! The purpose of this Bill is indeed repressive. This is also evidenced by a reduction in the amount of the fine in cases of conflict of interest. In contrast to the objectives described in the reasons, because the Act in force provides for a minimum amount of five thousand BGN fine for a person holding public office in the event of a conflict of interest and the project provides for a reduction of this amount to 1000 BGN. [[The President said that the time had run out.]] It's going down five times! This proposal does not take into account the fact that conflict of interest is a serious administrative breach affecting substantial public relations. The project focuses the activity of establishing and sanctioning a conflict of interest on the high levels of power and, at the same time, reduces this sanction five times! In general, the project restricts the professionalisation of the state activity of establishing and sanctioning a conflict of interest. Underwater stones are also placed on the impartiality and objectivity of the envisaged institutional system. The conclusion is that repressive political authorities are being created.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u46	Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u47	Yes, please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u48	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u49	The conclusion, honourable colleagues, is that Zlatanov's notebook will seem to us as a children's drawing book compared to the novel. This is ultimately the purpose of this Bill. The whole philosophy and formula of the Bill is wrong at first reading and cannot be supported, cannot be sanitized between first and second readings. That is why I and my colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria will not support this Bill at first reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u50	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u51	Dear Mr. Popov, dear colleagues! Mr. Popov, from your initial statement, in addition to being in a holiday mood, which I understood, I also heard a long reading of statistics, which did not seem particularly useful for the debate. What I did not hear, however, is you, referring in particular to the previous mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly, what did you do from BSP and DPS to help the system work? It is no secret to anyone that the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest is currently, or rather, the Commission is not working effectively, I would even say, at the border of illegality. [[Loud noise and shouting in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u52	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u53	Please, no lines. You will have the opportunity to stand up and replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u54	You know very well that the President of the Commission has been charged, has been removed from office, another Commissioner has resigned. At the moment, it is working at the limits of the quorum, and the question of whether its decisions are legal is asked. So you, starting from 2013, when the saga started with the removal of Mr. Zlatanov, and considering how long you managed, didn't do anything to at least fill in the composition of this Commission and make it work if you think that the system is currently well-built, but obviously the body hasn't been completed and can't function normally. You have done nothing practically, and now you are looking for an opportunity to gather the powers scattered in different bodies in one place, to create a centralized body, the system to improve. Okay, I get it. You're worried about anonymous signals. Offer a system of how to solve this thing. There's definitely a solution. You're a lawyer, you should be able to suggest something like that. You've got plenty of lawyers in BSP. Propose, but don't be in the mood for a vacation. I feel like you've been in this mood all week, except yesterday, when it was the ombudsman's choice. Starting the meetings on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, you at the extended part of the meetings were not in the Chamber at all! You weren't here for NTAC or a bunch of other things. And now you're going out and you're saying we're in a holiday mood, and the law is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u55	This has nothing to do with the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u56	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, the mood for a vacation is more on the right side, it is obvious! You are making suggestions that are false only to justify this bill. Colleague, it's good to read the statistics, because that's where the truth lies. It is good to know that we from BSP left Bulgaria tabled such a bill with regard to the Commission. Moreover, this Commission, although incomplete, works. That is why I have read you the statistics that over 1,400 established proceedings have been initiated over the last four years, and over 1,300 of them have ended with a final administrative act, which is twice as much compared to the previous system, which you are now trying in a coup d'état to return and ultimately impose through the Law a single authority which, by presumption, is uninvited, an honourable colleague, and you know what is a non-absolute and is going to be a political repressive body, regardless of the composition of the Council of Ministers, whether it will be another. A body appointed by the President and elected by the Council of Ministers cannot control its employer in practice. A politically charged body as a municipal electoral commission cannot control the mayors. This is clearly clearer and visible, and sees not with whites, I do not know what reflective threads this Law is sewn with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u58	Thank you, Mr. Popov. In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u59	Madam President, I know your tolerance and tolerance to the speeches from the stands. It seems to me, however, that when a Member of the National Assembly allows himself to slander an entire parliamentary group for its conduct that she was not present here, remind him that there are shorthands held in the National Assembly. To see how many times the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria from Tuesday to today has taken attitude from the stand on issues concerning something much more important than what you are currently trying to push us in the form of fighting corruption, but is actually a political scourge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u60	Mr. Ermenkov, the vocabulary and attitude towards the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u61	Yeah. What we did was much clearer and much more argumentative, so accusing us of a holiday mood is a little, what should I call it...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u62	What's your line to me? What am I supposed to do right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u63	You should have stopped him, Madam President. First things first. I have a proposal for you: we have a much heavier moment ahead of us with an important parliamentary control hearing. I think it's time for a break so we can prepare for this debate. That's why I'm asking you to call a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u64	In the manner of holding Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u65	Madam President, at some point we had gathered a lot of people in this room, suddenly the ranks were thinned. I say we count. I want a name check. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u66	A name check may be requested, Mr. Delchev, on the occasion of an upcoming vote. There are many MPs who have been declared for debate. When the debate is over, I will announce such a roll call. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria I want a 15-minute break. It's been an unwarranted extension of time anyway. The 15 minutes have passed, which could justify the continuation given the second registration, so we are in violation of the Rules. We want a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u68	Holiday till 11:00. We have a fixed time for the debate on the request of MPs from the BSP group, the Patriotic Front and the BDZ. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u69	Dear colleagues! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 24 to 31 July 2015. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Husein Hafuzov and Shabanali Durmush; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; [[The National Representative Nastimir Ananiev wants the floor for procedure.]] Let me finish with the written answers. - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Christian Mitev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. You asked for a procedure, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to extend the working day until 2:00 p.m. I also did not understand why the MPs were not called when the meeting began. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u71	There was a pretty long sonic signal. I don't know where you've been all this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u72	I don't know how long. Where have I been? I've been to parliament. I want an extension of the working day by 2:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u73	Do you want it or are you doing a voting procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u74	I want a vote procedure to extend the meeting until 2:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u75	The meeting is until 2:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u76	Extension of the session until the vote on the Corruption Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u77	The sitting is normally until 2:00 p.m. with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u78	We're talking about the Corruption Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u79	Form your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u80	We want a vote procedure to extend the plenary session to discuss the Corruption Act until 12:00 p.m., the debates, until 14.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u81	I thought you had this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u82	No, there was a procedure until the end of the day, but no procedure until a specific time. We want it by 2:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u83	Mr. Ananiev, your correct proposal would be after the debates, which are strictly fixed under the Rules of Procedure, on the questioning, and these requests are from colleagues from the Patriotic Front, BSP and BDZ, then to continue with legislative activity instead of a specific hour. Because, putting hours,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u84	Why not continue with legislative activity and then?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u85	Because you didn't make such an offer. The question is strictly fixed by the Rules of Procedure and was announced last Friday in parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u86	It's been voted out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u87	What's voted out? Okay, last time, tell me exactly what you're offering. I came in and I didn't hear you, I admit it. Tell me exactly what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u88	I propose that the debates on the Bill that we discussed this morning be extended to 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u89	I am talking about the debate on questions that are part of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u90	Which bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u91	It's a counterproposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u92	There's no counterproposal. [[Laughter and cheerful excitement, noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ananiev. [[The National Representative Krasimir Jankov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Colleagues, there's a vote. [[Noise and lines in the hall. National Representative Krasimir Yankov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] You make so much noise that I don't even hear those who are in front. Cancel the vote! Now tell me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u93	I note, Madam President, that such a vote is generally unacceptable in a procedure with which we have already been late at 11.00 to have parliamentary control at the request of one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly. Nor has the application for a vote itself been formulated in such a way as to allow for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u94	I am voting on the proposal made by Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Delchev, do you maintain your request for a roll call? There was one made, and I promised you. You want in connection with the upcoming roll call vote? Cancel the vote! Give me the list! Colleagues, order in the court! Name check! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional entry: Vyara Tzerovska, Daniel Kirilov, Delyan Dobrev, Ivan Valkov and Boris Stanimirov. I put to the vote Mr. Nastimir Ananiev's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? [[BSP LB.]] Quorum has, I said. [[BSP LB lines. A line from the National Representative Angel Naydenov.]] Before that, let's vote. I put to the vote Mr. Nastimir Ananiev's proposal. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] The roll call is in connection with the upcoming vote. I am obliged to cast the vote immediately and then I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You're gonna ask for a re-vote and say whatever you want. Abort the vote. There are 122 MPs voting: 74, against 38, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[BSP LB.]] Revoting? Mister, who...? 'Nydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u95	Mrs. Chairman! With all due respect to your parliamentary experience and despite the understanding of the delicate situation in which you fall as a representative of the majority, we cannot accept in silence the violation of the Rules currently taking place in plenary. I understand that you are somehow hostages to the racketeering, figuratively speaking, to your partners from the Reformation Block, but excuse me, by what logic will the entire National Assembly be taken hostage to the whims of the Reformation Block? The procedure for extending the time to discuss the previous bill was exhausted in two votes and the fact that someone from the Reformation bloc has not been here has failed to vote is no reason for us to vote all day and reschedule such procedures. On what basis during the time we are already in parliamentary control, you are voting on a proposal to extend the debate on the bill? On what grounds?! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Parliamentary control begins with giving the written answers to the ministers. We are in the time of parliamentary control, followed by the debate on our questioning, followed by parliamentary control. In what logic do we now extend and allow the vote to extend the time for discussion?! I understand the desire of the reformers to show the Prime Minister that they are sitting in their seats and voting on top of it. [[Loud noise. Applause on the left.]] But what is the logic of all of us participating in this circus?! This is a parexellance violation of these procedures and of everything we have so far as parliamentary practice. When has parliamentary control over someone's idea ever taken place in order to allow a vote to extend the time for discussions? [[Loud noise.]] We're in the time of parliamentary control. You have given the written answers and we continue with parliamentary control. I ask you to cancel the vote and not allow further violations of parliamentary practice and tradition. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]] We are returning to the service of the answers and to the debate on a topic which is not only no less significant than the topic we discussed, it is a crucial demographic crisis, discussions, opinions, proposals for a solution. We're going to fall for the whims of the Reformation Block?! I'm sorry. People get to read the Rules, really stay in their seats and vote when necessary. Please cancel the vote and return to parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u96	Mr. Naydenov, you know very well that it is not within the power of the chair to cancel a vote with announced results. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] I'm calling a 15-minute recess. I'm calling an extraordinary chairman's council. [[(Replyes: "Bravo!") Loud noise. Partial applause.)]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u97	Colleagues, please take your seats! The hearing is ongoing. The suspension was imposed by the voting by my colleague Ananiev from the Reformation Block procedure for extending the debates until their completion. At the moment when I took the lead in the meeting, I was not informed that parliamentary control had begun with the written answers to the questions of the MPs from the respective ministers. Due to the contradictions and the questioning of the vote I have taken, I have asked for a recess. At the time of the interruption, we gathered at an extraordinary Presidency Council where representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed a firm position. The opinion of the representatives of seven of the eight parliamentary groups, with the exception of the reformers, is that, after the debate on questions scheduled, in which case we are about the beginning of this parliamentary control, it is unacceptable to continue with legislative activity, which is why, at the moment, after announcing the firm opinion of the Members of the Reformation Block, who insist on continuing with the debates on the Draft and what has been requested, without including a vote on it, the decision of the Conference of Presidents is to continue with the debates on the questions of the MPs to Deputy Prime Minister Mr Kalfin. [[Applause from BSP LB, single applause from DPS.]] I recall the procedure for such a questioning debate. At the beginning of the sitting, that is, when the questioning starts, I should recall what this question is about. In the previous parliamentary control with vh. No 554-05-69 of 1 July 2015 MPs Mihail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova have asked the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin about the demographic perspective in front of the country together with a draft decision signed by 57 MPs from three parliamentary groups: BSP left Bulgaria, the Patriotic Front and the Bulgarian Democratic Center. A draft decision has been introduced, which reads: ? RESPONSIBILITY? concerning the debates on the questioning of MPs Mihail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the demographic perspective in front of the country The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers to develop and submit to the National Assembly by 31 October 2015 short-term and medium-term measures to overcome the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria. The time allocated for discussions in groups is as follows: GERB 12 minutes, BSP left Bulgaria 8 minutes, Movement for Rights and Freedoms I ask one of the importers of the Project for a decision to justify the project within 10 minutes. The analogy is art. 77, para. 3 of the Rules. This time is beyond the time I have announced for the parliamentary groups. Please from the importers Mrs. Ninova...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u98	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Today, we are putting to your attention an extremely sharp question about the question of question. We are all aware that our nation is melting every year. This is a problem for Bulgaria. How big is it to date and in the projections we make? From 1990 to 2011, we're down 1 and a half million. Forecasts show that in 2060 the Bulgarians will decrease by nearly 2 million more. There will be a sharp decrease in young people by about 310 thousand people. People of working age will decrease by nearly 350,000, and the number of people over the age of 65 will increase by 310,000. We have dramatic social and economic problems ahead of us. What are the reasons and how to overcome them? First reason: low birth rate. Less and less Bulgarians are born. In addition, the number of children born out of marriage by mothers with primary education is growing. The number of abortions is increased, the desire of women to give birth at the age that is childbearing is reduced. Six out of ten children were born out of marriage. In 2012, 30,000 abortions were recorded, which are half of the planned children. The tendency of children to have children continues. The second reason is the high mortality rate. Bulgaria is the country with the highest mortality rate in the European Union. The main reason for this, according to specialists, are cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, hypertension, heart attacks, strokes and malignancies. The second main reason is access to healthcare of the lowest income groups. Dear colleagues, according to the National Statistical Institute as of 2012. 15% of the population cannot receive healthcare. Today these rates are much higher. And the third reason is emigration. From 1990 until today, due to emigration, Bulgarian citizens have decreased by 6% and the population, which is at the working age of 10%. We lose the young, we lose the educated. The UN warns us in its forecast that we are looking at a decrease in the workforce by about 40%. This raises the question that fewer people need to produce more and more quality products. That is, the question of what economy we will have, how much the gross domestic product of Bulgaria will be. Dear colleagues, we are challenging you today at a meaningful, targeted discussion at least in three steps. The first: to unite, to accept that we have a problem - a severe, scary demographic crisis. The second, to unite around these three main reasons: low birth rate, high mortality and the emigration of young people. Thirdly, to identify measures to overcome them, but not those strategies, concepts that we usually accept and remain good wishes on paper. Let's point out short- and short- and short-term measures................................................. to be outparty and state-owned in order to have consistency, regardless of who runs the country, to have continuity and to apply these measures without any deviation. Because today, more than ever, this issue is a matter of state-of-the-art thinking. Whatever we do, we accept the fairest justice system, we adopt the right banking system, we discuss the price of electricity, whatever you want us to do, why do we do it if we don't have to do it for whom in 10, 20 and 30 years? Our nation is melting and we believe that this is the priority of priorities. Everything else is produced by this problem. It is the number one for us, along with poverty, income and jobs of people. And we are holding a meaningful discussion today, although we are at the end of the season and you are probably tired and do not care about this topic. We are looking for the arguments, we are looking for the concrete and political will to carry out these measures to the end so that Bulgaria can have it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u99	The debate is open. The first one asked for the word Mr. Honest Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u100	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Indeed, this may be one of the most important topics to be discussed, I hope, in the future in the Bulgarian Parliament and it is good that we have come this far. In fact, we are the first National Assembly to place in its tasks in one of the Standing Committees demographic issues and the first National Assembly, which elected a deputy prime minister with a portfolio of Demographic policy. This, of course, is only the first step, because demographic policy must find expression in concrete actions. The colleague was quite correct in the data she provided. Of course, they're a little scarier. Unfortunately, in fact, 2 million is the population with which we have decreased over the past 25 years, which makes 80 thousand people a year. That's nine people every hour. As long as the discussion lasts, nine people will reduce the nation, no matter how unpleasant it may be. We have a mortality rate before Ukraine, where civil war was raging and with a little bit ahead of Syria, a total sixth in the world. Indeed, mortality, the low birth rate and migration, which is about 2.89 per year, is the main problems that are visible. I'd like to add one more problem here. It is related, for example, to regional differences and to the depopulation of regions. This is also a key marker, which we should bear in mind in demographic policy, because public investments directed only in certain areas for years lead to the development of these regions undoubtedly and to the absolute decline of others, from where people emigrate, seeking livelihood in the big city, most often in Sofia. A famous professor of ours says Sofia is the demographic meltdown of Bulgaria. So regional inequality, which, by the way, is unfortunately a practice in Bulgaria is also the main cause of the demographic catastrophe. Even the European funds that we are absorbing and which are supposed to erase regional differences are practically encouraging them. An example is therefore the Operational Programme "Transport" where South Bulgaria will use the entire resource for this planning period. For Northern Bulgaria there is no provision for any lev. The other, we can say, is the moral side of things, the moral side of things, and the decline of family values, which should also be noted as a major problem. The coefficient of marriage, for example, dropped in just three years from 3.3 to 2.9. I recall that in the middle of the last century it was 15.5, which is an indirect indicator of the serious crisis of the family institution. Indeed, the question of the demographic catastrophe is not just emotional and it is not just related to the fact that we will not exist, it is related to our national security and our economic development. First of all, the ageing of the population and the collapse of the labour resources we are talking about is the deterioration of the quality of these resources. Because, of course, this low birth rate, unfortunately, is characteristic of the educated and socialized layers. On the contrary is the situation in the non-socialized, marginal layers that breed and which currently produce a quarter of the newcomers on the labour market. The main problem is that in practice the Bulgarian social policy during these two and a half decades is aimed at the production of such people. One of the main tasks of the future reform will perhaps be to control this process and support the socialised layers of the population for reproduction. Immigration policy, attracting people from the Bulgarian ethnicity is also a key way to solve the demographic catastrophe, as well as measures to overcome regional inequalities. I really hope this will be a first step in our discussion. We have already given a memorandum from our parliamentary group to Minister Kalfin, and I think we have developed these quite thoroughly in it. We thank you for this opportunity to emphasise once again the importance of the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u101	Any lines to Mr. Vesselinoff? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u102	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is indeed good that today the debate has started against the background of these political passions, and I hope this is due to our concern about the problem and not some political PR action aimed at promoting some single political measure. Demographic policy, however, is beyond consideration only of birth, mortality and migration. To date, it primarily refers to quality of life and solving people's problems at every stage of their lives. This concerns social security, comfortable and good living environment, employment, income, well-being, good education and health and attracting people who have already emigrated from Bulgaria. Demographic policy measures are complex and horizontal. They depend on the efforts of all ministries and ministers and can produce results after years when the effects of the appropriate sectoral policies are accumulated. They relate to social, economic, political and cultural conditions in the environment. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy can only be a coordinator and can contribute to a better demographic policy, but he cannot do all the work. Here it is worth giving what is deserved both by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and by the National Assembly, because several laws have been adopted that contribute to solving the problems in demographic policy. First of all, this is the adoption of the Labour Code. It regulates flexible working hours. This is particularly important for young mothers and makes it easier for them. If, in time, the introduction of the so-called "voucher system" to provide care for children, elderly people and non-laborable people will also contribute to demographic policy. Secondly, it is important to mention that the examination of the Employment Bill has started, where employers will be stimulated, who employ single mothers, adoptive parents and so on. That's a good measure, too. The social security code and pension reform take into account the new realities of ageing the population, that people of working age are decreasing, and that the elderly will also exceed what is at work active age. That is, with the pension reform, we are taking into account the new realities and this is also a means to combat demographic problems. That, of course, is not enough. It is mostly about what economy and dynamics there are in the corporate sector. We must encourage not only our comparative advantages but to develop a high-tech economy and innovation so that we can bring back some of the people from abroad and improve quality of life. It is also important to note and I will conclude that this Parliament has contributed to the adoption of these three key laws to improve the demographic situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any lines? No. For speech there is the word of the people representative Georgi Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u104	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarian ethnicity disappears! That's the cruel truth! We have statistics that can expect a peak of the demographic problem in 2050. This year the average age will jump from 39 to 49 years. One of the problems associated with this is that the number of people in working age is decreasing, and the number of people in need of care is increasing. Older people need more health care. What do the government do to solve this problem? Well, the easiest is to increase the retirement age of 65 years and more. Well, make it 75 years and you'll solve the problem. What else? They divide the diseases into socially significant and unsocially significant. One of us will treat them, and the other one will get their money, and if they don't have the money to die. Minister, in several interviews you said that in the short term there is no solution to the demographic problem. And another thing you said is that it is difficult to make changes in the demographic picture without changing the quality of life. Mr. Minister, with the actions of your Reformation Government, supported by the reforming majority in parliament, are you not deepening the demographic problem in Bulgaria? Do you think you're doing this in the long run?! I am referring to what you and your government call a pension reform, a health reform, why not add education reform to them? So, based on these two statements of yours, which I unconditionally agree with, I ask you: how do you see the improvement in quality of life, and so far you have clearly shown one, that in the whole vision of the managing accompanying actions to stabilize the pension and the health system there is none. There is also no vision of raising the level of income of workers to the same working poor, something unique for a Member State of the European Union. Here they stand clearly and will continue to stand among your reforms the questions about the poor functioning of the Bulgarian labour market and low economic activity, low employment and high unemployment. You have no idea of reducing unemployment rates, of raising workers' incomes. We need a sharp increase in the incomes of everyone in Bulgaria! I will quote your words again: The specific measures to be taken are mainly related to improving labour opportunities, working opportunities, raising living standards in the country. So, what are the measures you take to raise your standard of living? You increase your retirement age, increase your pension service requirements, make it difficult to access the pension and health care system, discriminate against the poor from education? You, as Deputy Prime Minister, and the entire government, must answer the question: with the reforms of this government, the service, health care, educational, what do you contribute to solving the demographic problem and do you not deepen this problem of Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there lines? I won't. To speak, the people representative Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The subject of the demographic crisis is not a topic to exchange political insults or to blame ourselves. This is an extremely serious topic, because according to UN statistics, 2050 we will be a minority of the Bulgarians will be a minority in our own country. The next Bulgarian generations will curse us that we allowed in the 21st century to allow after 1400 years of passing through all kinds of peripets, slaves, regimes, when we survived, to disappear in the 21st century! Therefore, it is a serious matter. It is not to criticize or praise Minister Kalfin. The question is what measures should be identified and, above all, give us the clear answer to what we want to do. The first thing we need to be aware that we want to do is to limit the birth rate in marginalized communities, which practically 25 years the state stimulates to give birth to children and drain social funds. You all know it, only some ministers and the previous cabinet I have spoken to, because for 10 years we have been talking about it, come up with a very stupid answer: "What will they say in Brussels? " Come on, honourable Members, for 45 years we've been following what they're going to say in Moscow, and now we're going to respect what they're going to say in Brussels! The state of Bulgaria belongs to the Bulgarians! Therefore, the measures to be identified must be identified in view of the future of the Bulgarian nation and the survival of the Bulgarian state, not what one, second or third official will tell us in Brussels! This outrage of continuing to stimulate children to give birth to children, to stimulate the ghetto birth rate and to crush the literate birth rate will lead to disaster, collapse or whatever you want to call it. We need to be very clear about this. Our second tank, which we need to use, are the Bulgarian communities, which we can use with smart, long-term, consistent state policy to attract to the territory of Bulgaria. Here again you will tell me all kinds of general talk, but I will answer to you to look at the practice of European countries. I'm not going to give you an example of the State of Israel, it's way ahead. I will give you an example of countries such as Greece, the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary and so on. Therefore, in the name of the survival of the nation and of the state, in the name of having an economy, we need to take radical and courageous measures, without taking into account what one, second or third european will say to us. Because what economy, what investments will we talk about when the population in Bulgaria is ageing? Bulgaria is on the threshold to deprive itself of its normal workforce. What economy will you develop in a country where a huge percentage of the population cannot read, write, speak in Bulgarian, have no education and virtually does not want to go into the labour market, because 25 years has been taught to use only and only social benefits?! That's a problem, too. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What normal investor will come to Bulgaria when he knows he will not find the workforce to protect his investment?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u107	Your time is up, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u108	The economy is also influenced as a market and by the number of the population. Since time is running out and since the debate is not enough to talk to each other for 5, 6 or 10 minutes, the first step was high time to do it and it was done. I say again: this is not a topic here to fire and talk about who is doing what right now and who has not done what in the past, because in the old Bulgarian custom we will enter into a vicious circle from which we will neither come out nor make useful and reasonable decisions. I call on Minister Kalfin, with whom we have repeatedly spoken on the subject and have a very clear understanding of the subject, to be bolder and not to take into account what someone from Brussels will say to him! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we must respect the future of our nation and our country! Thank you, everyone. I'm sorry I overreacted. [[Single applause by GERB, the Patriotic Front and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u109	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u110	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Demographic problem may be a problem of problems! It is a consequence of everything we do, and perhaps solving it is the reason for what we do in our daily work as MPs, and you as members of the executive power. Minister Kalfin, you have certainly done a lot over time since you were Minister of Labour and Social Policy. You have made a serious reform, you have signalled to the public that you can be the bearer of consensus and find common positions. My personal request and as co-chairman of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is the next big topic to put to yourself is the solution of the demographic crisis, disaster. After all, everything that we do is a service, educational, judicial reform, it will make no sense if there are no Bulgarian citizens after 20 years. I have repeatedly posed problems for both child support and family support for children. These are some touches from a complete picture that should be the work of all the parliamentary groups, of all the strata of society, of civil society organizations. For me there must be a new strategy, a new strategic document that should perhaps pass through you, which will set clear parameters for what we do as tax reliefs for families with children. This as an idea is good, but as a size what colleagues from GERB and the government in Budget 2015 have done is very little. I hope these reliefs will be much more serious, to be felt by Bulgarian parents who work, pay taxes and raise their children in Bulgaria. There is much to be done in order to restore trust in young Bulgarian families, that they have the security and the opportunity to stay at work tomorrow and the day after, to receive remuneration and to be able to raise their children, to have funds for raising their children in the country. On the other hand, what we have as potential may not have other European nations. We have a huge resource, a tank of Bulgarian citizens living around the world. What we can do for them and within the European Union is to attract them to return, but there are many ethnic Bulgarians who live outside the European Union. There is also about better work with the Ministry of Education, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, facilitating the regime for admission of students ethnic Bulgarians in Bulgaria. In any case, it will be an attractive force for these young people to come to finish their education in the country, why not stay here and start their families here. These are ethnic Bulgarians. We have about 75,000 places in universities, we won't be able to get more than 50 thousand students. Either way, the state is giving that 400 million. BGN to maintain these public universities. This is a line on which we can work and we can really make sure that many ethnic Bulgarians return to Bulgaria. The task is not easy, but also as part of the parliamentary group, and as co-chair of the BDZ Party, I guarantee our support for everything that can be done in the coming months, and it is indeed my request that we prepare some package of measures by the end of this year so that it does not remain in the air that you are also the Minister for Demographic Affairs, and that our Commission, moreover, is on demographic issues, that we really have some useful solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Do you have a reply, honourable colleagues, to the speech of the MP Stefan Kenov? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Hasan Ademov. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u112	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Out of doubt is the fact that demographic policy is a policy of politics. It is no coincidence that what I would like to point out is related, on the one hand, to institutionalising the question of demographic policy. On the other hand, what are the reasons that led to the current situation? And briefly, what are the measures that need to be adopted to mitigate and reduce the impact of demographic processes on public finances, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the healthcare system? Last but not least, the social assistance system. Since the demographic crisis, the demographic disaster, as some call it, is capable of aggravating public finances, aggravating and increasing public finances' pressure on the state budget. Dear colleagues, 16 years of age from 1989 to 2006, demographic policy is institutionally neglected. There is not a single document adopted in this period. Therefore, the results we have today are due precisely to the untaken decisions then. In this sense, the decisions and proposals that will be made now in these years will give their results after at least 10 years at least. Only in 2006 was adopted a National Strategy for Demographic Policy 2006 "2020"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the Year of People with Disabilities, Bulgaria alone in Europe has adopted a National Concept for the Promotion of Active Ageing 2012 There are also nearly 500 indicators that assess the effectiveness of the measures adopted and implemented. So with regard to methodology and institutionalization, things seem to be sorted out, but the problems are in another direction. I would just like to say in a few words what has been done over the years until 2015 and which has an impact on demographic policy. Dear colleagues, first, closed and restructuring are the Institute of Demography and Sociology at BAS. Mechanically united are the Institute of Demography and Psychology, instead of such unification, for example, between the Institute of Demography and Sociology. In 2012, two key Directorates in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy were closed. Only in 2014 by decree of the Council of Ministers was adopted and established the National Council of Demographic Policy. There is also an interdepartmental working group on demographic issues to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, where more than 80 representatives of different institutions and agencies are members. This working group shall draw up those operational annual plans which the Council of Ministers shall adopt. Now I would like to say a few words regarding the characteristics of the Bulgarian demographic problem. Demographic problem and demographic crisis there is not only in Bulgaria, there is throughout the European Union. But the Bulgarian demographic crisis differs from what is happening in Europe, because if in Bulgaria the population is not only ageing quickly but also decreasing, unlike Europe. While in Europe only ageing, Bulgaria is declining rapidly. The tendency to decrease the number of population is constant. The negative natural population growth over the last 23 years has also been sustained. Fertility levels cannot compensate for mortality rates, therefore absolute natural population growth is negative. The tendency to decrease birth rates is constant. Moreover, with a significant degree of certainty, it can be argued that this trend will be irreversible in the coming decades. The tendency to reduce birthing contingents is constant. The retention of high mortality rates, including infant and perinatal mortality, is permanent. The migration and emigration of young people are still high. The trend of ageing of the population is constant. The trend of ageing and reduction of the workforce is persistent. The territorial distribution of the population is uneven. The trend of depopulation of settlements and already of whole regions is lasting. If we unite that this is the characteristic, we need to take measures that will involve, as stated in the strategy, at least 14 ministries and many other departments, because demographic policy is a social policy and there is no single office or institution that can be involved in solving this problem. The Council of Ministers adopted a decree last year requiring the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to develop a methodology for assessing the impact of each regulatory act on demographic problems. If all these measures are coordinated, it is obvious that things in terms of demographic policy, if they are not resolved, at least the mitigation trends of demographic policy will be strengthened. Out of doubt is the fact that the measures proposed to promote birth rates, measures relating to the combination of family and labour obligations, and all the others, which over the years the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has offered to the attention of the MPs and adopted as legislative measures, are very important, but only they are not sufficient. As much as we increase the money for social assistance, whatever resources we put aside to help families with children, we will not be able to solve this problem. If we analyze the birth chart and the trends related to this graph, we will notice that the birth rate increases not when social benefits increase, but when there are expectations for stability and economic growth. Here, in my opinion, should be the discussions and proposals to solve this extremely important problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u113	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. The next speech is from the MP Desislav Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We've heard a lot of findings so far about how bad things are. Some of these findings were even read. In fact, we are MPs who are supposed to travel the country, meet the electorate, our voters, and wonderfully know how deserted Bulgaria is and what the Bulgarian people are. Okay, we found it here today, in this room. The other thing I heard from Mr. Ademov was very correctly reminded of what had been done in this direction so far. In 2006 the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty'). Yes, Deputy Prime Minister Emel Etem was the head of such a council, which was struggling with the demographic crisis. At the time, President Parvanov had consultative councils on national security concerning the issue of the demographic crisis. This is under the management of the Triple Coalition BSP, DPS, NDSV. In 2012, during the management of GERB a strategy which was updated then. Now it's 2015, we go out on this stage and we find out how bad things are! Good intentions are what they are. As Radoy Ralyn used to say, "Looking formally, everything is real, but in reality, everything is formal." How can we do this?? We must ask ourselves that we can really change things? Let's really make a difference! Let's make sure that the people who are abroad come back here; those who are in Bulgaria give birth more and the elderly live longer! We told you that a long time ago. Then some of you laughed, the journalists ironed. What about when we raise the income? When we make the pension, it will still be the lowest in the European Union, around 500 leva. And when we make the salaries about 1,000 leva.! Then the population in Bulgaria will have funds, will be able to do family planning. I can afford to look after my child in the years ahead. Adults will be able to afford better food, better medicines and better health care. People who are abroad will come back here and say, "I want to work for the good of the country." Raise your income! Then how was this idea of ours met? With ridicule. Journalists say, "Where did you get the money from, Mr. Chukolov?" Even elderly people who only see their grandchildren on Skype because they're abroad, and they don't believe that this can happen! In all the countries of the former soclagger, which passed the so-called transit, this happened, but we almost have to accept that this cannot and cannot happen in Bulgaria! We have to make it happen. Otherwise, we will remain MPs of.....we will not be people, because there will be no people, there will be no one to represent. That's our duty. We see countries in the European Union making enormous efforts in this direction. We say we must bring the Bulgarians back from abroad. Here, in Hungary, a government programme: 320 euro per month of a young specialist who returned to Hungary.. assistance for a long time to get him back on his feet and work in his homeland. We see these countries doing everything they can to get the maximum amount to be used in this direction. How does that work? It happens when you stand your ground. We've said that before. And you, Mr. Kalfin, have ironed him by presenting him to the media in a coup d'état. Let's make sure that money stays here in Bulgaria, that it doesn't run out of the country. Another example with Hungary: ERP, which works against the Hungarian people, is nationalized in Hungarian hands. In the end, this is obtained in Hungarian hands, in the Hungarian budget and this money is used in an adequate way. We have asked questions to the Energy Minister from Ataka: how much is the profit of the company that exploits the Bulgarian gold deposits? Turns out it's about billions, billions, but they don't stay in the budget! When we make this money to be collected in the Bulgarian budget and used properly, adequately, with the necessary social programs, then things will change. Otherwise, that's the way we're gonna talk again, great. The government will come up with a strategy. This strategy will be read to each other and after some other parliament will raise the issue again. And until then? Until then, things are going badly. My appeal to you, fellow Members, is that these days it is up to you to say how to get off the broom: get off the clouds and really get to work. From the party you have our full support for this. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech there is the word of the people representative Georgi Kyuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are all concerned about demographic problems or the demographic catastrophe in our country. We all want to identify concrete measures. A lot of aspects of the demographic crisis have been said here, but as a representative of the medical community I would like to say that health care is not the most guilty in Bulgaria. We've got our problems, we've got our problems unsolved. With several numbers, I can prove to you that it is not health care, which is the basis of the demographic crisis. In 1960, the average age was 69 years, in 2000. " 70," in 2012 "74." Yes, the population is ageing, but this is also due to the achievements of health care. We who are in the health sphere have our obligations, we have our mission to help, but we cannot increase birth rates except in personal terms. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let us pay more attention to economic and social problems and less attention to healthcare.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. The national representative Ruslan Toshev has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The debates today will not be enough for a thorough consideration of all aspects of the demographic theme, the demographic policy of Bulgaria, but are a first, good step on the road to achieving sustainable and long-term political agreement regarding the measures taken by the state and the prudent management of demographic changes. The time has passed when demographic policy was identified only by taking measures to increase birth rates. This policy is relevant to the whole life cycle of man, to the needs, expectations and problems at each stage of his life... not only to the birth rate. In the context of continuing economic and social transformations, in lasting and irreversible at least over the next few decades reducing and ageing population, demographic debate should include, in addition to the themes of birth, mortality and migration, and the themes of quality of life, the quality of human resources. Therefore, when debating this topic, it is appropriate and absolutely imperative to seek and propose the most adequate measures to improve the living environment and the well-being of people, increase employment, income productivity, improve the quality of education, health care, social assistance, social care, improve infrastructure and increase solidarity between generations. The factors and reasons leading to severe demographic imbalances are complex. Therefore, the only possible and correct method for managing demographic change is the complex method Demographic changes are low birth rate, high mortality, population reduction and ageing, high migration flows have economic and financial reflections and dimensions. They reflect directly on the sustainability of economic growth and the stability of social systems, the labour market, pension, health and education systems, a system of social assistance, long-term and social care. In the long term and without state interference, demographic changes will lead to an even greater slowdown in economic growth....................................................................................... Therefore, some of the possible directions in which we need to work are achieving high quality of human capital, high productivity and productivity of labour, combined with income growth, high technology and innovation, economic development and high added-value industries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! This discussion, which is extremely important not only for the day of Bulgaria today, is important for the future of Bulgaria. It makes a strange impression the absence of an entire parliamentary group, which apparently...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u121	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u122	... is not interested in the serious problems facing Bulgaria not only today, but in its perspective, its future. The Reformation Block, I mean, so you don't ask me which one. [[Noise and excitement.]] The results we have come to are a consequence of the fact that the state withdrew 25 years from different sectors. The policy of a smaller state guides us in the top rankings of both European and global, on birth rates, on mortality, on life expectancy, and politicians speak, and the state is increasingly retreating. He's retreating in the field of health care. He's receding in the field of education. The social budget continues to be a residual measure in the poorest country of the European Union and a country which, due to a systematic and long-standing right-wing policy, has retreated from its leading positions in a number of areas such as education, health care, culture and lifestyle. All this happens because the pride of low taxes and low incomes kills the prospect of development to the qualified young people of Bulgaria, because the open European Union gives them much more opportunities for income and for a normal life for them, for their families. This process will continue, and no foreign investor will come to Bulgaria because of low wages, low labour costs and low taxes, when there is no quality labour employed by European enterprises. This is a fundamental issue that needs to be understood not only by the minister. He must be understood by the entire government. And as long as the Republic's budget continues to be in the 39th zone of 40% redirecting gross domestic product, nothing will happen, Mr. Minister. Far below European frameworks and norms! It's not gonna work, it's just gonna be talk. Dear MPs, for 25 years in Bulgaria no social state has been realized, and today the demographic issue, a gesture to the social state, becomes a danger to Bulgarian democracy. These numbers of technology, with the way of voting, will not solve the other big problem for the participation of Bulgarians in the future of their country. Dear Members of Parliament, this discussion is first of its kind. I am glad that most groups, with the exception of reformers, have accepted it as important. I think it is very important for the government too, Mr. Minister, and it should be transferred to you there. Not in the fall to have excuses of the type "There is no money!" is now decided. We can't help but look for funds for the future of this country. The crisis, the catastrophe is visible and detected by everyone. We from BSP left Bulgaria have our modest contribution. The reduction of taxes through progressive taxation of Bulgarian citizens with salaries up to BGN 1500. Two average salaries for the country; a differentiated rate in terms of baby goods, because without these small signs people will continue to think that the country is foreign, distant from them and will continue to look at Terminal 2 as a better perspective. Dear Minister, what demographic and what social policy should be made when at BGN 290. poverty line, not corrected for a long time, at 380 BGN. Minimum wage [[the President signals that time has run out]] , one person's allowance is BGN 562.? What extended reproduction of the nation?! ♪ Just let's not talk! I would like to thank all MPs and groups who have a commitment to this topic. It will sound much more than different countries in the autumn.. And here in the National Assembly, it will sound, I believe, and from the Council of Ministers. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Any lines to Mr. Mikov? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov? Does your group have time? Your group has an exhausted time limit, no possibility. The lines come in at this time. Are there any other people? Mr. Lachezar Ivanov. Does GERB have time? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u124	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I think that the subject that we are looking at is extremely important and we need to consider it a non-partisan one. The topic is extremely important for the nation, for the future of Bulgaria. I'll be more specific. I say "out party." Here we are all united in the name of the development and future of Bulgaria. I had the opportunity to listen carefully to some of the speeches. This policy cannot be done by a political party, by a government. When we talk about the demographic factor, we all need to make it clear that this is a 30-year-old policy ahead, and that is why we need to have an initial in-depth debate in society on this subject. We political parties, as public opinion speakers after this in-depth analysis, must make it clear that no matter what happens in the political life of one party or another, in one election or another, the future of the state, the future of Bulgaria, no matter how strong it sounds, is in our hands. I'll tell you why. This cannot be a single ministry's policy. Here the whole Bulgarian people, every family, the education in schools, in kindergartens should be engaged. I will set a simple example from which we can learn. This is the policy they conduct in a neighbouring country near and near Macedonia. I would like to draw attention to how and how they conduct the demographic factor policy. I mean, there should be a union of the whole society here, including religious communities. Here we need to start and signal, to ring the bell that the demographic collapse in Bulgaria is scary. We should start when we were kids and raise the kids in school. They should show the children in the letters how they should have one brother, two and so on, and not in the exhibitions that are being done, to have one child painted on the painting. You have to start with the way you think, the realization of this problem. This requires the unification of everyone in all spheres. This must be a common policy to cover society, to become a dialogue, to become a daily one. But unfortunately, our society is torn apart by various problems, starting with the economic, financial ones. There are many differences, but I think that there should be reasonable dialogue with all political parties, non-governmental organisations, with all representatives of the religious community on this subject. Only if we realize, understand and make these efforts could we actually contribute to the future development of Bulgaria. I believe that this debate today should set the beginning and the basis for the creation of a comprehensive, comprehensive programme, both horizontal and vertical. We will not run out of all the topics here today, but this is a good example that this topic should be discussed seriously in society and in depth. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Groups don't have time. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have an opportunity within 10 minutes...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, when this debate was requested last Friday, I thanked and will do it again for putting this topic in the National Assembly. The topics related to demographics and demographic problems are not party issues, cannot be of the same government. They're long-term. I thank all those who, with concern and not from party positions, have put this issue in today's debate. In order for this policy to be long-term, it must pass through the National Assembly. For this reason, perhaps the legitimate remarks that different types of documents are adopted, which are then not being implemented, it is imperative for me that something that I have mentioned, the demographic strategy, should pass through the National Assembly, as well as adopting such a strategy, and taking into account each year the specific measures that have been implemented. For this reason, I am thinking about the proposed decision today, which is intended to introduce short-term and long-term measures, it is better for the National Assembly to deal with something that the government is currently preparing, and it is a discussion and adoption of the National Strategy for Demographic Development. For your information, on the current Strategy from 2012 to 2030, which works, I have asked scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for analysis and they are currently working on it. We also meet with other political forces and experts who have proposals on it. The contract with BAS is for this analysis to be carried out by the end of the year. I'm going to ask them to speed up this process. In any case, by the end of the year or at the beginning of next year, I propose that not short-term and long-term measures be introduced and that the Strategy for demographic policy be fully and thoroughly discussed by Parliament. I propose that Parliament, taking these measures, should work with the document it should work with and which is long-term. Does it need a strategy? Yeah, he needs a strategy. Great measures may be proposed in one area or another, however, they would not solve the overall problem. Demographic problems cover different areas of management, of science. There is no way with one measure or another to seek effect. There must be a demographic strategy. It's not an empty document. Each year, something I am going to propose to Parliament should hear a report on the implementation of the specific measures set out in this strategy. In this way, politics will become parliamentary policy. The third thing I propose is a procedure that has been going on since 2012. Dr. Ademov mentioned it now. There is also a good experience in Germany that each project will go through a demographic check in what way the relevant bill will affect demographic policy. It's not complicated. We have the experience of leading European countries doing so. Personally, I will suggest that when legislation is adopted, there should be a similar assessment for each of them. These are the three measures that I think will make Parliament empathetic with the definition, implementation and reporting of demographic policy in the country, and empathetic with regard to specific measures and specific policies. Data relating to demography are measured from different sources. They show the same results. I won't read you numbers, but we can't be surprised by the numbers. It is measured by the National Statistics in Bulgaria, the European Union through Eurostat and a special commission to the Council of Finance Ministers at Ecofin, measured by the UN, measured by the World Bank. In general, all forecasts show that for Bulgaria if measures related to demographics are not taken to be effective, until 2050 to 7% per year will decrease gross domestic product or grow by 0.7% less per year if current demographic policy trends remain. The measures that we are currently taking and which are not few, they are talking about people entering the labour market more actively, reducing youth unemployment, increasing incomes, finding a temporary solution. These are data that are reported by all institutions dealing with demographics. They will give a short-term effect. The long-term effect is linked to a different type of economy in which one working produces much more. I will not quote the numbers, which in Bulgaria and throughout Europe will lead to the ratio between a working and pensioners in the country. Without changing the overall economy, without changing productivity, with any tax and other measures we will not be able to resolve the issue. In the strategy that currently works, the one I mentioned that I would offer to your attention by 2030, there are six indicators and 65 indicators that measure policy in the demographic area. Indicators are the rate of reduction in population numbers, adaptation of family and child policies to population ageing, adaptation of labour market policy to ageing population, education policy, migration and integration, health status of the population. These are the six areas that relate to the final results of demography. We can't measure them just by population numbers. Yesterday, the UN Annual Report on Trends in the World Population came out. In the poorest countries, the population is the fastest growing. If this is the criterion and we are looking for a rapid increase in population, then we are looking at countries with great poverty and large inequalities. What we need to talk about is quality of life. This is what European countries do. So all the areas that I mentioned, including health care, including education, including the readiness and ability to combine children with work and careers, are extremely important policies. By the end of the year, the government will submit a bill on equal opportunities between men and women. The difference in pensions at the moment of men and women is 40%. It's due to two things. Women get lower incomes and retire early. Forty percent is the difference in pensions. One woman, according to data from the European Institute for Gender Equality, works seven times more than her husband in the performance of family duties and about three times more in child rearing. When we allow people to be able to combine their work with domestic duties, with raising children, then we will also give more incentive not only for birth rates, but also for the quality of life. A number of measures that are also related to income, of course, and to the combination of work with domestic employment, and to the policy towards people with disabilities, the policy towards children, this year we complete the process of deinstitutionalization for children with disabilities; there will be no more homes than the old type of children with mental or physical disabilities; a program under which has been working for several years "Dr. Ademov knows" with the World Bank for Early Inclusion, where children with disabilities in a number of municipalities will begin to receive care from very early. It's demographic policy. Graduating, once again, I propose to Parliament these three measures so that demographic policy can become an actual parliamentary activity: adoption of the National Strategy, hearing annual reports on its implementation on specific indicators and developing a mechanism to conduct a demographic check of every single bill that passes through the government. I think this will actually make the demographic policy a parliamentary issue, and I hope it will be, as today's discussion, not a party, but a genuine concern for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! From the GERB Parliamentary Group we will support the draft decision proposed by our colleagues by making a proposal for an amendment regarding the deadline. The deadline that fellow Members have proposed on October 31st, we believe will be short. We suggest it be by November 30th. We believe that in the course of the budgetary procedure, when discussing all the laws relating to the budget for the next 2016 and the budget for state social security, and that of the National Health Insurance Fund, the debate would only be useful when, in a budget procedure, the executive is presented by the short-term and long-term measures to deal with the demographic crisis. We are all convinced that this may be the most serious problem in our country. As a national representative from Northwestern Bulgaria, which in all European and national statistics, is an area with the most declining population, with the greatest impact of the demographic crisis, I cannot fail to say that these short-term and long-term measures should provide for not only measures for the labour market, youth unemployment, labour productivity, but must be integrated and must affect both educational and health status and quality of life, as you said, and equal opportunities for everyone. We support your concept of caring for children and families who raise children who also raise children with disabilities. This is a policy that has been a priority in the previous GERB government and we have repeatedly debated on the topic of deinstitutionalization and on how homes for raising children deprived of parental care should be different and should not exist. This parental care should be of a new type. I am pleased that there is a continuity now that all who are now in the plenary will join together for a solution to draw you as an executive and we will support you as legislators............................. and short-term measures against the demographic crisis. It is a pity, however, that there is a group missing that traditionally declares readiness for reforms. It is a pity, because, as I said, there must be an integrated policy regarding the population to overcome the demographic crisis, and this does not happen without a direct link to healthcare, to education. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope that the dialogue that is missing at the moment and the opinion of the colleagues from the Reformation Bloc, in the form of the executive power and of the Council of Ministers you will be able to hold with your colleagues Mr. Tanev and Mr. Moskov; because this is a policy for Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, the debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. In the beginning I read you the draft decision. There is a proposal to replace the deadline in the Draft Decision 31 October 2015 by 30 November 2015. We are voting on the proposal for an extension. They voted 127 MPs: 121 against 6, no abstentions. I put to the vote the draft decision with the update we made within the deadline. We vote on the full content of the decision. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. We continue with parliamentary control. A question will be asked to Mr. Kalfin, then Mrs. Bachvarova will answer. Mr. Kalfin is asked by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev about the government's policy towards people with disabilities. [[People's representatives shall leave the Chamber.]] Please, the noise in the room is very high, it cannot be controlled normally. I expect Mr. Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev in the Chamber to ask Mr. Kalfin about the government's policy towards people with disabilities. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about the government's policy on people with disabilities. Dear Mr. Kalfin, in your work as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, you are focusing on the conditions for retirement and labour. Such a focus is also carried towards people with disabilities, where the main issues discussed are employment, pensions, information about upcoming reforms in disability policy, and often, unfortunately, conflicting information and confusion of some of the people. This also leads to their anxiety, which they have signaled me as a Member of the National Assembly. Among the main topics that are being posed is the insufficient effectiveness of TELM to identify the specific needs of people with disabilities. The TelK Committee has certified and not assessed the damage. The task is to establish the percentage of work lost based on a set of diagnoses. Thus, no one appreciates a person's preserved capacity to lead an independent life, that is, to make decisions alone or with support for his own life, to work, to have a family and to socialize. The model document also reflects the health status of the individual, as well as its reduced performance against a person without the diagnoses listed in the TelK decision. The role of this document is to provide people with pensions, social benefits, not access to a resource for support and social inclusion. In this regard, my question to you is: what is your opinion on the proposal to issue an extended epicrisis from a hospital to be followed by a thorough and complex individual assessment of the needs of the disabled person? Following this logic, an individual assessment must have legal value to provide the necessary support for each person for the purpose of his independence, employment and social realization, and not merely receiving social benefits for survival. The creation of such specialised assessments may replace or complement TELLK decisions which limit their decisions to loss of performance without distinguishing between the types of work that could be done. Currently, the implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities is entrusted in its core part of the Agency for Social Assistance, thus it cannot be conducted a real complex policy towards people with disabilities. The support of the state is rather reduced to handing out money in the form of social aid, which engages a significant public resource without achieving a qualitative change in the lives of disabled people. In this regard, my question is: what are the intentions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with regard to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, which is fundamental to all policies in this area? Is restructuring and empowerment of the Disability Agency being considered, including responsibilities related to an individual approach and assessment of disability, as well as to the social realization of any disabled person? At present, providers of services for disabled persons receive a subsidy as nationally represented organisations for disabled people, while a significant proportion of disabled people, leading active lives, remain outside these organisations and have no sense of being represented in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I've had the opportunity to comment on the issues you're putting. Indeed, for reasons related to the agenda of both the government and the parliament in recent months, we have been talking very actively about the labour market and the issues related to pension insurance. Within the framework of the second pension insurance debate, we have agreed, including with social partners, trade unions and employers. This agreement has been made public and is already under way, and after the summer vacation we will continue actively. I hope that within the autumn it will also begin to manifest itself within the framework of the different policy that we will have or will propose to Parliament for people with disabilities. What does it consist of? To a large extent corresponds to the spirit of what you mentioned. At the moment, people with disabilities receive a solution for their functional ability to work. Those are TelK's decisions. Following the receipt of the TelK decision, which is certified by the committee concerned, any checks under that decision are the only possible effect. Besides, they're done on paper. All follow-up events after that suppose what the person concerned receives, the corresponding degree of reduced functionality or disability follow automatically. That's not a good approach. It doesn't meet people's individual needs. It creates conditions for spilling resources, which is already small, and ultimately a significant one for the opportunities of the Bulgarian economy and resource state, goes with insufficient measurement of the effect of these funds. My opinion is that this resource should not be saved, and all these exercises that we are going to do will not be about saving money, but so that these funds can go to people who really need them much more effectively. The mechanism that I foresee is what you mentioned: after the medical expertise is issued, there will be a medical and social committee in which doctors and social workers will assess for each person what could be prescribed as both social resources and social programs and as opportunities to return to the labour market. For me, it must be leading to the creation of opportunities for people with disabilities to be complete and to be in the labour market. There are similar programs. Unfortunately, they are for subsidised employment and as soon as the programme is completed, these people are out of work again. By the way, we have a lot of work to do, I hope, with the help of parliament, to change the stereotypes that exist with many employers who avoid hiring people with disabilities. This second committee will work on the basis of standards. At present, a working group is examining the standards of the World Health Organisation, the experience of other European countries that apply precisely such a policy to people with disabilities. That's exactly what the known delay requires. This is an expert work which is very bulky and which, before we take political decisions, should be carried out. With regard to legislation, we are currently working in working groups on a new Law on Social Assistance and on amendments to the Law on Persons with Disabilities. The moment we advance, they will be widely discussed. What I can assure you is that nothing is done for disabled people without their participation. At every step they are and will be consulted. You have raised a question that is extremely important. I would like to use the last minute, precisely related to it, for the representation of national organisations. There are criteria, there is a Council for people with disabilities, there are many people who claim that they are not well represented through these organizations. I think that people with disabilities themselves should look for such representation that they can trust. I am ready to examine once again the criteria for participation in this council, but the state needs to talk to a partner. This partner should be able to express collective desires, priorities, consult the community concerned. I therefore very much wish that people with disabilities could also be able to be helped, but also be able to judge who could best represent their interests. We need such a dialogue, which, in order to be effective, must be adequately represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u133	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Kadyev. To two additional questions according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I must say that I am very pleased with your answer. What I understand is that you will review the legislation and will probably propose amendments to the Law on the Integration of Disabled People. I also learned that there will probably also be some restructuring of the Agency for Disabled Persons, including responsibilities that it does not currently have. The biggest problem with telcs is that they are not individual enough, which you have also admitted. In Bulgaria there are hundreds of thousands of people with wires, each of them is their own special case and for this reason there are dozens of representative organizations. It is normal for some of them not to feel well enough represented both in their opinion and in the funding they receive. Some of them came to me, which is why I'm asking this question. I would really welcome, if you could include me, any conversation about these criteria for national representation and a possible change of the way these organisations are defined, as this is still important for these people. I do not wish anyone to have a decision at THELK nor to be part of these organizations, but we all have to take care of them because they are part of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u135	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Would you like to take an attitude, although there was no issue formulated? No. Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. We move on to the responses of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. The first question will be asked by the national representative Svetoslav Belemezov on providing individual means of protecting the population in case of disasters. Mr. Belemezov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to art. 13 of the Disaster Protection Act governs the need to secure the so-called "Personal Protection" funds, which are designed to protect the respiratory organs, eyes and skin from poisonous and radioactive substances, money and aerosols, from high temperatures and burns, from explosions and other mechanical effects. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 points 1 to 4 explicitly states how stocks of individual funds are created, stored, renewed, maintained, provided and accounted for. Also in art. 13, para. 3 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, the obligation is that individual means of iodinal prevention of the population are planned, purchased, renewed and made available to the municipalities of the Ministry of Interior. In view of the above, Minister of Interior, I would like to address to you the following question: are the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Disasters in respect of the regular supply of individual means of iodine prevention to municipalities, and are periodic analyses of the readiness of the institutions and, in particular, the Ministry of Interior, respectively, to deal with potential disasters and distress situations in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u137	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, iodine prevention as a protective measure is carried out in accordance with the criteria for the application of protective measures laid down in the Ordinance on Emergency Planning and Emergency Stand-up for Nuclear and Radiation Accidents. The population subject to iodinal prophylaxis in the country amounted to 4 million. $20,000. 490 people, according to NSI data. Annex No 47 of the External Emergency Plan of the NPP "Kozloduy" refers to eight settlements in the municipality of Kozloduy and Miziya, as well as an additional 35, located in the municipalities of Kozloduy, Miziya, Oryahovo, Hajredin, Byala Slatina, Borovan, Krivodol, Valchedrum, Lom and Boychinovtsi. In the 43 listed locations, potassium iodite tablets have been distributed to the population. In 2012, Iodine prophylaxis preparations of 1 million were renewed. 942,000. BGN 448. for the population in the districts of Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Pleven, Ruse, Silistra, and Sofia city. They have an expiration date until 2017 and are granted to municipalities. A reserve of the Single Rescue System is also provided. In 2014 iodinal prophylaxis funds were provided for the districts of Burgas, Varna, Dobrich, Razgrad, Targovishte and Shumen with an expiration date of 979 thousand until 2019. £799. for 2 million. 157,000. 36 people or about 54% of the country's population. In the remaining 15 districts, the means of iodine prophylaxis have expired, and that is why in the 2015 budget forecast, we have stated funds for their renewal, but currently no funding has been granted. In this regard, in the 2016 budget forecasts, the Ministry of Interior also provided funds for the purchase of iodine prophylaxis preparations to replace those who have expired. If funds are not allocated to the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2016, we will look for other funding and see if this can be done through the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. In terms of periodic analyses. Yes, the Ministry of Interior is preparing such analyses for various activities, including the readiness of the institutions to deal with potential distress situations. We are counting on you to support us in discussing the new budget for 2016 and the amount for the necessary iodine prevention to be included in the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u139	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! The ABB parliamentary group has worked extremely hard in the field of Security and we know that every one of the issues affecting national security is vital at this time. That question is one of them. We will naturally have battles and talks, discussions in the direction of making the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2016 significantly improved so that we do not fall back into the hypotheses in which, for vital security issues, the state does not have the means to guarantee it. In this way we open a very serious flank through which we tell the Bulgarian public: you are not protected because we have no money. I appeal very much to work in this direction and to seek maximum consensus at the level of the Council of Ministers and in Parliament regarding the funds needed by the Ministry of Interior, because I believe that it will be a state crime for me if such an incident occurs on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and we post-factum to seek the solution for dealing with the consequences. Believe me, then we will pay much more money to deal with the consequences themselves and it will be extremely difficult for the population itself and the victims than if we take timely measures and work more preventatively. In this spirit, I share your view that it will be necessary at the end of the year to discuss the budget in different parameters than this year. I know that you are a minister who took over the Ministry at a later stage and had no opportunity to participate in these processes, so I believe that the majority in Parliament will also approve such a position, not only the Ministry of Interior, but also most parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u141	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Would you like to use the backrest, Madam Secretary? No. We continue by asking the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the government's strategy to resolve and prevent conflicts and tensions in areas such as the village of Katunitsa, the village of Garmen and the quarter. The Orlandovtsi town of Sofia. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The problem of tensions in areas such as Katunitsa, Garmen and the capital district of Orlandovtsi is still on the agenda with a view to the analysis and assessment of national security in Bulgaria. For this reason, I allow myself to ask you a question concerning the question: what is the specific position of the government, respectively of the Ministry of Interior and what is the vision on prevention and non-discrimination of such conflicts again in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? On the other hand, I think that the issue I am putting is extremely relevant, because of the reason that such conflicts and problems in our country have happened rarely in the conditions of upcoming elections, especially local elections. We, as a parliamentary group, in the course of these discussions, have had the opportunity to clearly and unambiguously express our position. Our position comes down to several main priorities, two of which are: first of all, the prevention of such conflicts and the government's common strategy and vision for resolving such conflicts should not only be involved in the Ministry of Interior. Here should be the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Association of Municipalities and so on. Secondly, we proposed an option for the creation of a summary map to give the general analysis of which are the critical points in Bulgaria. The analyses indicate that they are critical because of the first, second and third measures and consequently a preventive first, second and third measures should be taken to prevent such conflicts. In one of the hearings of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, to which I am a member, you have had the opportunity to provide your analysis summarised in one such card. I would ask you to mention it again so that the Bulgarian public of this high tribune knows that in fact such a map has already been drawn up and should work on it. In view of all that I have mentioned, I would like to ask you specifically: has there already been a government strategy to resolve, prevent and prevent such conflicts? What is the vision of the Ministry of Interior as one of the main drivers for solving these problems for what has happened so far? What is the Common Strategy of the National Council for Prevention of Crime immediately after the recent events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u143	Thank you. For an answer in five minutes, Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u144	Dear Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Belemezov! The crime prevention strategy for the period 2012 - 2020 was adopted three years ago by the Council of Ministers during the first management term of GERB. Only a month ago did we restore the Prevention and Combating of National Crime Council as the body that needs to implement the policies and ensure the implementation of the measures set out in this Strategy. I therefore believe that the renewal of the work of the National Council is a very important step forward in our efforts in this direction. The first meeting was held only a few weeks ago. There are representatives of all ministries, including representatives of the National Association of Municipalities, with the idea which you have outlined here from the stands to achieve a synthesized effect of the efforts of all departments and administrations to solve this problem. I think it is already clear to everyone that only the efforts of the Ministry of Interior cannot solve the problem, they can limit the negative phenomena, they can influence a particular situation, but they cannot solve the problems accumulated for so long in the years. In addition, the Council's restart also responds to our understanding that only in partnership can we continue to act. We acted this way, initiating such a kind of partnership in Garmen in the first days when the conflict occurred there and this gave very good results. So far, we continue to work mainly together with the MRDP and the MLSP in order to look for a solution to the problems that we are getting to. You know, there was a self-destruct of some of the houses in Garmen at first. The problem there with illegal buildings is extremely dramatically strong because they are an extremely large number. But together with the two ministries, we were looking for opportunities mainly to provide and offer families whose homes must be destroyed, an opportunity for accommodation. On the part of the MRDP there is a proposal that we accepted, approved to the Council of Ministers in a discussion, proposed to the governor to find buildings that are state-owned to be offered for accommodation. I would like to say right away that, in developing our efforts in this direction in relation to Garmen, we have encountered another problem which has proved to be very significant and on which we need to think about options for the basic solution. It is the unwillingness or inability of local authorities to implement one or another solution. For example, the municipal leadership and the mayor of the municipality refused to offer accommodation in nearby buildings because of the danger of provoking new waves of discontent among the population, although this was an obligation to fulfil their legal powers. That is why the district governor intervened extremely actively and constructively. He was also present at the last meeting of the municipal council, where decisions were adopted to implement the necessary measures to declare PUP in the territory, to give plots on which already the residents of Garmen, who are in the Roma neighborhood and are about to be destroyed their homes, could build legal homes. This is regarding the specific example of what our philosophy is about the way we need to solve problems from now on. But we do realize that controlling a situation is not enough. Our political and management responsibility requires development and longer-term policies. In this direction are our greatest efforts at the moment. That is why, at the first meeting, I proposed that representatives of all departments send us reports on the measures they are taking to curb crime, so that we can make a common plan and not only bring them together, but also build them up so that we have a more comprehensive strategy. I've got a signal I'm running out of time. Perhaps with the supplementary question, I can give you more information. But you are witness to our efforts because we have discussed this subject several times, including in the Internal Commission, where I have informed you in detail about our efforts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u145	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You are entitled to two additional questions, Mr. Belemezov, in the procedure of your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, we have had the opportunity to discuss this topic in general at various meetings, including in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, including meetings organised in Parliament by the parliamentary groups in which they participated, by the way, all parliamentary groups. The general opinion of each of the MPs following the security issue is that indeed the Ministry of Interior is making the necessary efforts in this direction. But it is also a comprehensive opinion that this is not enough and that this should not be solely and solely in your prerogative. Here, on the contrary, there should be a complex, large-scale strategy to be initiated and in which a maximum number of institutions should be involved, which should be responsible for this type of policies in Bulgaria. I welcome your efforts in the establishment of a National Council, which should come up with these types of problems with specific solutions to be derived and resulting for each of the ministries in Bulgaria. My supplementary question has also been asked to the Internal Security Committee why are the other institutions silent so far? Why do the Bulgarian public and the people we talk to on the ground remain under the impression that only your voice on this issue is being heard so far? Where are the other institutions? You said you initiated certain meetings. Does it actually have a particular effect on them? Is there anything that can be written and that can be brought down to the attention of any of the MPs and we as representatives of the people, making meetings in the country, to be able to familiarize them with these regulations of the government regarding security? And we should advise people what should happen and do in their regions, living there, in places, cohabiting in mixed areas and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's actually my only supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u147	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u148	Dear Mr. Belemezov, the fact that the Ministry of Interior first met the challenge of dealing with the problems encountered in two of the settlements where Roma and Bulgarians live together does not mean that the other ministries and my colleagues are not dealing with understanding and do not act on this issue. I will repeat with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and with Minister Pavlova and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and with Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin we are in constant contact. Several of the meetings we had with them were joint. They led, in my opinion, to a result that somehow changed the position of the mayor and the Municipal Council in Garmen so that they could make the right decisions. Of course, there is much more to be done to coordinate efforts. I think, although it is not entirely within the authority of the Ministry of Interior, but if it depends on the initiative of the Ministry of Interior to continue this process, I would not mind taking this additional initiative. However, it is about a very comprehensive policy and its proper development. Among other things, socially sensitive is our approach to solving the problems in both the Orlands and in Garmen, and it was in order to implement the Law and the measures we have in a way that we do not ignore or discriminate against one of the opposing countries. I think we're doing it this way. This will be the style of solving these problems. I think the most secure factor for integrating the Roma population into the overall public structure is to understand that there are no specific measures to it, but that they are like to every equal citizen of our country. We have a plan for the Ministry of Interior measures that we are implementing right now. The map you mentioned is ready. There are registered and described all critical areas, the level of criminalisation of the individual municipalities. What is very interesting is that in fact the social tension zones are obtained where there is no such high Roma criminogenicity. I mean, the factors are different, there's a lot of them. Usually the causes are of a domestic nature, but then they unfold as deeper conflicts. We are very actively working on this, we are revealing state figures to attract to our position a security officer. We developed these ready-made forms on which the Bulgarians or the endangered can signal the police so that we can follow the first picture. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We still have a series of points up to nine that we are running right now in this plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Belemezov, you have the opportunity to express your attitude within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for answering the supplementary question. In fact, such a type of conflict could potentially occur in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, where local security has been severely destabilized where the real integration of minority groups is absent. By my assumption, I say that this phenomenon, called domestic crime, which has been rampaging over the last few years in Bulgaria, actually suffer not only Bulgarian citizens, but at the same time Roma, who are also Bulgarian citizens, respectively citizens of the European Union. In this context, we should make really comprehensive decisions, improve extremely many of these areas in the country where general education of the population is low, where mostly minority groups prevail. We must very much focus on them and make maximum efforts for Roma integration in Bulgaria. Because there are also people who insist on raising their children, insist on working, insisting on paying taxes, to be equal citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and to bear not only the positives of the so-called political system of democracy, such as rights, but at the same time they carry their obligations, which imply and arise from a democratic society. Again, on behalf of perhaps a large part of the MPs, we consider your efforts in this direction as a very positive fact. I would be extremely pleased if, immediately after the parliamentary vacation, we parliamentary political parties have the opportunity to sit down at a joint discussion table with representatives of the executive and non-governmental organisations, of course, in which to really look at this problem and try on the different sections to look for maximum solutions to comple in a working national strategy, as it is obviously not working effectively so far. Good luck to you. I really hope that at the beginning of September we will have the opportunity to open such a discussion in the Bulgarian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u151	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. We move on to the last question scheduled for today to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova. A question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov concerning difficulties facing officials of the Ministry of Interior to appear in a competition for a higher position in the year in which they acquired a higher degree. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! It may not be known enough to the Bulgarian public, but the Ministry of Interior also employs employees who are not satisfied with what they have achieved, but strive to increase their professional and educational qualifications. It turns out that there are obstacles of a formal nature that do not allow a competition for a higher position in the year in which they have acquired a higher degree of education. In accordance with art. 4 of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for holding a competition for transition to a higher type of position for civil servants in the Ministry of Interior, each candidate shall submit a notary certified copy of a diploma for completed higher education in the course of completed education abroad. If you do a university check, you will find that for many years graduates receive their diplomas late. The procedure was further aggravated after 2009, when the requirement to place a hologram sticker in the diploma was added. Until this sticker is provided by the Ministry of Education and Science, the employees of the Ministry of Interior cannot appear at a competition because they cannot present a copy of a diploma. In most cases they are forced to wait for a new competition next year. In order not to discourage employees, they may present a certificate from the university concerned that a diploma is to be issued to them and to sign a declaration that the certificate is not a false document. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what are the opportunities for the Ministry of Interior officials to appear in a competition for a higher position in the year in which they have acquired a higher degree of education and qualification if they present the relevant certificate? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u153	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. For your answer please come in, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u154	Dear Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, in presenting your question you noted that the delay that exists when receiving the diploma is within the procedures that universities carry out. That is, the delay is within the competence and responsibility of higher education institutions. At the same time, the delay in the holographic stickers of the diploma is the responsibility of this ministry and should be asked to them in order to be able to tell what are the possibilities for overcoming this delay. The Law on Higher Education and the Ordinance on State Requirements for the Content of Basic Documents issued by Higher Schools does not provide for the completion of a higher education degree to be certified by another document other than a diploma. Returning the competition principle, as an element of growing up in the security system, is a commitment that we have made to society in our election campaign and we are fulfilling this commitment. In the Council of Ministers we recorded and adopted a government programme where in Chapter Security and Public Order a priority is restoring the competition beginning in the Ministry of Interior. The amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act of February have restored the competition start in the system and the regulation governing the conduct of a competition for transition to a higher position does not allow the certificate as an application document, that is, we follow the legal requirements. The entry under art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ordinance requires the presentation of a diploma for higher education results from the current legal framework under which a diploma issued by a higher school is the document certifying a completed degree of higher education. Graduation for completed higher education is the only official document. One certificate does not meet these requirements. By Decree No 8121-3-406, which is in force from 21 April 2015, and within the 3-month period of action 35 competitions for higher positions in the Ministry have been announced. This does not, in fact, interfere with competitions and it seems to me that it does not restrict the rights of employees to grow up, perhaps postpones them in some way in time, but does not cancel them. The announcement of competitions for the transition to a higher position shall take place at any time during the calendar year and shall be linked to the human resources needs in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. We do not identify a major problem at this delay because there is no limitation of the rights of graduates, but only their delay in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u155	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u156	Dear Minister, from a formal and legal point of view, your response was perfect. In this sense, I cannot express discontent. My idea was completely different. University officials can't make them. And to ask, and not to ask the minister, they're autonomous, and you can't get them to issue such a hologram sticker right away. There's no way you can get them to take care of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, which is within your prerogatives. You say that the Ordinance does not allow this certificate to be presented, an opportunity which I am talking about, but it is a sub-legal act and as such can be amended by the Minister of Interior, in this case......................................................................................... by you............................................................................................................................................... In my opinion, nothing in this case costs, but perhaps it costs political will and effort and kindness to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, however, this certificate to be valid for a period of 6 months until this hologram sticker is obtained. Thus the employees who have graduated will move forward in time their growth, because you said that a contest was announced. Perhaps such a contest will be announced not next year, but next year, because it is depending on what positions there are in the Ministry. In this case, employees who receive valid diplomas to apply will probably have to wait a year and a half, two years or more. I hope that you will think about this problem and perhaps accept my proposal made in the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u157	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u158	Dear Mr. Stanilov, of course, I will put the topic to discussion before the management of the Ministry of Interior. Personally, I believe that the current state does not prevent, does not limit, because I hope that I have made myself clear: these contests are not held once a year, but continuously, when the need for a position is established. In this sense, the delay could not come in a year or a year and a half, but could happen in a few months. Opening such an opportunity in the Regulation may pose other dangers, and that is exactly what I would discuss with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-31.u159	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With this, the questions provided for in today's parliamentary control are exhausted. You have fulfilled your constitutional obligation to answer parliamentary questions and questions. The time is 14.00 and the scheduled time for the work of the National Assembly is over. Dear colleagues, the next meeting of the Forty-third National Assembly is on 2 September 2015 at 9.00 p.m. Wednesday. All of you wish you a pleasant month of August, rest or labor! I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
