ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Today's extraordinary plenary, as adopted, has the following agenda: 1. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pension funds and the effectiveness of their supervision. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. 2. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, with a duration of up to 19:00 p.m. today. One communication: by letter dated 13 February 2015, on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure, the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 554-01-21 has been withdrawn. The letter to me contains the signatures of all importers.. Valeri Simeonov and MPs from the group of the Patriotic Front. Point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY COMMISSION TO EXPERIENCE THE FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE PENSION FUNDS AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SUPERVISION ON SUCH. On behalf of the importers, please come in, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I hope that we will increase the cases in which the National Assembly shows that we can work together on significant problems of our constituents, of the Bulgarian people. One of them is undoubtedly the problem with the use of pension funds. Every Bulgarian citizen is interested in where his funds are, what income they bring, what is the guarantee for the funds that have been accumulated in these funds for decades. In relation to the necessary reforms in the pension system and the discussion that has started, I think it will be of great benefit to the National Assembly, to the relevant Temporary Commission to do a thorough analysis of the data we have to require additional data, to meet with absolutely all the stakeholders, to do our job. And here in plenary, and before that in committees, to offer the MPs systematized information, alternative solutions, so as to facilitate Parliament's work in making strategic decisions concerning both the overall reform of the social sphere and the fate of pension funds and their use. In this regard, I would suggest, in consultation with our partners, I would expect your opinion, that we make an important amendment in the second part of the name of this Temporary Commission and the objectives it has set for itself. We propose in the second part that this Temporary Commission will check the effectiveness of the applicable regulatory regime. And I am explaining it not for any other reason, but because, in order to determine the effectiveness of the funds themselves, we will need to develop a system of quantitative and qualitative indicators, which will, firstly, require an extremely long time and, secondly, there may be a conflict in some of the European Union's provisions and tasks of European Union supervision. Since our main task in Parliament is to improve legislation so as to make the work of the institutions concerned on the issue of pension funds more effective, I propose that we make such an amendment in the name of the Temporary Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u3	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly, who wish to take part, to give a sign of this. Anyone? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the proposals, the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Financial Status of Pension Funds and the effectiveness of supervision over them, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are of the opinion that such a committee should have, in order to have more transparency on the activities of private pension funds. In connection with the discussion on the changes in the pension system adopted at the end of last year, after the meetings and hearings in the Committee on Budget and Finance and in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, representatives of the Financial Supervision Commission and private pension funds raised several questions and obviously the Commission must come up with a final product in which there must be a proposal to improve the legislative framework. What Mr. Gechev said is extremely important because, in the way that this Commission is now written in the project, to verify the effectiveness of the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, it is obvious that there is no way that the Commission can assess the effectiveness of the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission in the way it is written in the title. We, as a legislative body, are able to propose changes to the legislative framework so that the Financial Supervision Commission, the state regulatory authority and private pension funds can carry out their activities under the new regulations. What comes to the fore from the discussions in the Committee on Budget and Finance is that there must be a mandatory improvement of the regulatory framework, mandatory changes both in the phase of accumulation of funds in private pension funds and in the phase of repayment, that is to say, it is important to introduce the requirements of Directive What do I mean? First of all, it is necessary to introduce the so-called multi-fund system. This multi-fund system will allow for an additional informed choice of the insured persons in Bulgaria so that ultimately there can be an opportunity for a more effective and qualitative choice. Secondly, a reduction in fees and deductions. Dear colleagues, the Financial Supervision Committee has long proposed in projects that are drawn up by them together with private pension funds, changes in the legislative framework, so that on the basis of actuarial estimates a reduction of the fees and deductions that are currently in force in Bulgarian legislation can be proposed. Thirdly, it is the idea of creating a guarantee fund, a centralised guarantee fund, which will solve the problems with the payment phase, because improving the payment phase of the accumulated funds is task number one, because in just a few years private pension funds will start paying the pensions of the insured persons. Our parliamentary group will support the establishment of this committee in the hope that there will be more transparency, more clarity and a better regulatory framework for controlling the activities of private pension funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u5	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Are there any other MPs? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u6	My fellow Members, I take the floor to say that the so- proposed Commission, initiated by the BSP, supported by the Reformation Block, by the Patriotic Front, by the ABB, without proposing to the other parliamentary groups whether to join, participate in this formulation of the Commission's objectives, for me, ladies and gentlemen, is unnecessary. There is a Budget Committee, and when we have a topic that is within the prerogatives and within the framework of the work of a committee, I see no reason why we should continue to practice vicious practices from previous parliaments to create other committees: committees of inquiry, temporary and I do not know what to duplicate the activities of the main committee. Thinking of when and on what occasion such committees were created in previous parliaments, their goals were then exceptional and only populist, and to serve as a scorpion, mace against certain officials or certain institutions. Our Parliament has promised itself that it will not do such things, and so it was a wonder for me why this committee was proposed, and I was even more surprised to hear the wording of this commission's task. I am glad that Mr. Gechev has undergone catharsis and has understood that this wording is not correct because the legislative body is therefore a legislative body in order to make legislative changes and identify problems to correct them through the legislation, only I would like to ask: who needs one committee of eight people, one representative from each parliamentary group, to identify problems and to propose legislative changes? The budget committee, ladies and gentlemen, whose members are Mr. Gechev, mainly of those who have spoken, is the Commission, which has been dealing for several weeks with the problem of pension funds, the Financial Supervision and Supervision Commission. This is where I pulled out this folder. [[shows it]] , in which are all the materials presented, examined and commented in the Committee on Budget and Finance. I have prepared this folder to give it to the chairman of the new temporary committee so that he does not waste time asking again from the Financial Supervision Commission, there are serious material from pension funds, from pension insurance companies, there are press reports, questions about the subject and coming out of the media space, and answers to them. I'm using the case and I'm going to give this file to the chairman of the committee, and if this committee is elected today, I understand that it will be chosen. By the way, I would also call on our colleagues to support it, because otherwise tomorrow's headlines will be "GERB" making an umbrella over KSCOM and there is no such thing. I would invite the committee to be elected, on Thursday, its first meeting to take place together with the meeting of the Budget Committee, at which the Financial Supervision and Pension Funds Committee will again be sitting, ladies and gentlemen, we will consider legislative proposals on issues already identified by the Commission. Some of them Mr. Ademov mentioned here, but there are more. We have identified them over ten problems that need to find their legislative solution. On Thursday, we will receive proposals from both pension funds and the Financial Supervision Commission. So I would suggest to the future chairman of this new temporary committee of inquiry that its first meeting be held with us on Thursday, and by then they will be able to get acquainted with these materials, all of them on the committee. They are, by the way, uploaded to the Commission's website at the first time they were received by the Commission and have free access. And then also to invite the members of the Budget Committee to joint meetings, so that we can continue our work without wasting time with parallel meetings of the funds that we will invite, the experts from the Commission, who will be invited, as well as many NGOs who have already attended and will continue to attend these meetings. I am pleased that here, from this tribune, Mr. Gechev as an importer made this correction in the title which really brings the legislative authority back to its functions to correct the legislation in order to be more effective and not only in the part of the management of the funds, but also in the part of the supervisory functions and where necessary; where this is required by a directive; where this is identified by the checks carried out by the bodies of the European Commission by the Financial Supervision Commission. All these materials, I'm telling you again, they're here. [[Shows folder.]] And we have discussed them, only at the last meeting, which was fully devoted to the work of the Commission, the gentlemen of the BSP, representatives of the Budget Committee, were not present. The gentlemen of the Patriotic Front also left. The gentlemen of the Reformation Bloc got bored and left. Well, if that's how it's gonna work on the committee in question, then it looks like we're not gonna get the result everyone hopes for. [[Noise and lines.]] I see a forest of hands for lines. Wait, I'm not finished yet! I have time. Dear colleagues of GERB, I call on you to support this Temporary Commission, despite my speech, so that we do not receive tomorrow's headlines: Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u7	First line, Mr. Mestan, but the BSP defines the other two because more than four people raise your hands. You two work it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you just received a round of applause from your parliamentary group for a thesis, which is a classic example of populism. You just gave a classic example of what is the difference between responsible political behavior and populist behavior. If you are deeply convinced that there is no need for this Commission, you will vote against, without fear of tomorrow's headlines. When a government follows the fear of tomorrow's headlines, it's not responsible, it's populist. In addition, you have taken another risk - those you have expressed in principle against the creation of such a Commission will be absolutely applicable tomorrow and the day after tomorrow when we will discuss similar ideas for other committees, already on your proposal, albeit on other topics. I call for more political consistency, for more responsible political behaviour, because populism really is a way to the swamp, and we have in principle deep doubts that your governance as a whole will be more populist than responsible. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u9	Second line here, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Understandable are Ms. Menda Stoyanova's arguments. If you feel insufficient support and trust, you can resign, you do not need to do this tirade here from the parliamentary tribune. I see the creation of this Commission as an opportunity for the permanent parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance to have more time to deal with the extremely important issues of taking on the new foreign debt of the Republic of Bulgaria and to enter into its functions, to try to form a policy of promoting economic growth. All of these arguments could have had some basis, Mrs. Stoyanova, a few days ago, but after the severe relapse that has been made under your leadership in the Committee on Budget and Finance, you could manipulate the decision to approve the agreement on agentship with external debt, there is no way from now on that we can trust that you can work and lead this Commission, including the way in which you include such important and significant issues at the last moment as extraordinary points. This was also the reason why our representatives left the meeting you were talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u11	Third line please, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u12	Mrs. Stoyanova, I think you've got the problem. I'd like to elaborate. The problem is called the political umbrella, which is placed over the heads of a number of departments responsible for the supervision of the financial system in Bulgaria. I start with the Governor of the Central Bank Ivan Iskrov appointed with the votes of GERB, currently protected by GERB. Do any of you have any doubt that if GERB really wanted to remove Ivan Iskrov, it would have been removed [[BSP LB]] Not to explain how we're gonna sit around and wait for him to resign by October, with 3.7 billion lost. lv. CCB?! Secondly, Stoyan Mavrodiev, a former MP from GERB, blazing everywhere that continues to be GERB. Does anyone have any doubt that the Financial Supervision Commission has completely failed to supervise CCB and that their responsibility is no less than the BNB's?! Yes, they have no responsibility under bank supervision, but they have a responsibility on a number of other things as a supervised entity of CCB. Thirdly, the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors, Mrs. Vanya Doneva, former MP from GERB. Does anyone have any doubt that the Commission has failed completely? See what happened to the KPMG license? They saved their license for 80 grand. lv. fine. Sorry, there's a website in Vratsa with 100,000. lv. a fine that none of us have ever heard of, and they've heard of 200,000. lv. a fine of which 100 thousand for the undertaking which is insured and does not care at all how much the fine will be, because it will take them from the insurance company, and 100 thousand. lv. there for some auditors who don't care either, because their fine will fall in court. That's what this is about. This Commission is a no-confidence vote against the Budget Commission. This Commission is a new, special vote of mistrust against the way and the people GERB chooses for these leading institutions. When you learn to choose the right people, so you don't sink 3 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. and no one is guilty after all, then there will be no such committees, then we will admit that the Budget Committee is doing its job. In this case, the Budget Committee is absolutely and 100% not doing its job. The people of the BSP left this Commission for you personally because you manipulated the vote. The vote was nine by nine. I was there as a guest, I sat to the end, and I'll sit on all the following committees to watch what you do. You manipulated a single vote just to make it appear that the Commission voted for external debt, which is not true. The same thing, if I understand correctly, happened in the Foreign Policy Committee. What's this? A vote of distrust to you personally and to GERB. This is this Commission, let everyone vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u13	A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u14	Mr. Mestan, you are right that this is populism, but I do not want to make colleagues differ from the general tone of this parliament. That is why I am making a statement to express my position on this too. As for the other committees, I would support, Mr Mestan, any such additional committee, if it covers a subject which is in the prerogatives of several other parliamentary permanent committees and thus needs to sum up their activities. This is the difference between my opinion on this Commission and some other committees, possibly future, which you refer to. As for Mr. Boychev's statement, I will not stop because after Mr. Kadyev's speech I understand that there is a serious attack on my left. I'm not answering her, that's a compliment to me. When the opposition attacks you, it means you're strong. To Mr. Boychev, I just need to remind you this. The subject of the Budget Committee, Mr. Boychev, is not to form a policy of economic growth, there are other functions. There are other committees that have to deal with such topics. However, this hardly matters to you, it is important that you make any arguments about your thesis. Mr. Kadiev, you are not honored by the statement, putting under a common denominator all regulatory authorities without evidence. You are not honored to accuse me personally of manipulation, and I would like to hear the Chamber say that it was about the fact that Mr. Turnovalyski was absent from the Budget Committee due to illness. I'm guessing he also imagined a hospital list. Mr. Gechev insisted that his vote be taken into account, although he was not present and was not at work, contrary to the fact that a member of the Commission from GERB had permission to be absent and a written application for his vote. If this is manipulation, that is, compliance with the rules is manipulation, so do you. And as for the attack, thank you again for the compliment. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u15	To speak, there is Mr. Martin Dimitrov. After him, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Karadjov, Nastimir Ananiev of the Reformation Block, also signed up. If MPs from other parliamentary groups so wish, we will alternate the order of speech accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Parliament, in addition to legislative, has control functions. The purpose of this Commission is not a vote of mistrust of the Budget Committee, Mr. Kadiev. If you make a few more such statements, the Commission will rightly not be supported. No, it's not about a political game that BSP sees again, and it can't be about a political game. It is a question of clarifying the truth about the work of the Financial Supervision Commission as supervision, whether it performs its duties adequately, to follow what the problems with pension funds are, how far they deviate from the rules, if there is a deviation from the rules, if there is a problem with legislation. Because here I heard a very ugly speculation, I want to say this. Sorry, fellow BSPs. I know demagogy is your second nature. But you chose Iskrov as well. You voted here in front of our eyes for him. You voted for him, even though we got up right then, we abstained, we didn't vote, and we warned you not to. We said Ivan Iskrov should not be elected governor of BNB. From this tribune here, we have warned you. And you voted for him. I'm sorry, but now you have to say that he was intruding from somewhere else and that you have no responsibility is very ugly. I say again that demagogy is your second nature, but that's more to me because I was watching you from there. [[Shows the right side of the room.]] From there we stood up and warned you: "Don't choose Ivan Iskrov as the governor of BNB. That was quite a statement we made at the time. You picked him and CTB came. So, who's to blame for KTB? BSP is personally responsible. That's what I'm telling you! Then you chose Gunev again with your voices. The bank supervisor was personally elected again by both you and other people. I hope you're not proud of this act of yours. So at the moment, some argue how they were the most principled, wanted a change in regulators, and someone else had chosen them.. Sorry, it's very ugly! If anyone claims that this Commission is a vote of no confidence in the Budget Committee, we cannot support it. So give up on these. There's no such vote. There is another search for the truth. Stop this demagogy! This Commission should not be involved in politics. It must check in detail for each fund how supervision works, whether it works systematically well, whether these funds have been checked each on-site, every year, whether there have been such checks, what are the results of the checks, whether there is a need for us as a parliament to change legislation so that the controls are better, to be on-site. Not to turn out that the control was remote again and that there was no control for some funds and for others there was no control. Don't let it turn out that way. This is the purpose of this Commission to see whether it is a human error or a systemic problem that can be resolved by law. That and nothing else! After all, Parliament's control powers must be used. They are given by the Constitution for a reason. We don't just pass laws. We check after how they are executed. We control how they're executed! The fact that over the years, not all temporary committees of inquiry have been successful does not mean that we do not accept this Committee of inquiry today. I call on my colleagues from GERB. Yes, colleagues, it is a mistake that you were not included in the signature itself. There is also great hypocrisy in that it is BSP that initiates this Commission. I understand you're annoying yourself, but I'm annoying myself. It is annoying, because these people are the ones who say that they are fighting for a change in regulators and for principle, when they appointed the head of the NSA, who missed that 5 billion, that the DANS missed that 5 billion, drained from the CCB, didn't know about this job... And the current majority hesitates whether to change them! And they say that they are the biggest fighters for change in the control and control bodies in Bulgaria, it is really offensive to the ruling majority at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u17	He got carried away! Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u18	But we have to act in principle. We shouldn't be fooled by emotions. When you remember from this tribune, the Finance Minister told us that changes were needed in the Bulgarian pension system and proposed texts that were voted in a piece, then from his words we realized that under the surface he saw, probably for reasons, problems that we should define very precisely. This parliamentary committee of inquiry and gram should not deal with politics and similar things that we have listened to so far. But he needs to get the facts straight. The most important question is: do we have effective and working supervision of pension funds and public companies? If not, why? If not, how can it be corrected, how can it be corrected, including legislative, including personal? I suggest this. As we have amended the Law on the Court of Auditors and we have made the decisions public, we have introduced individual responsibility, to think very responsible for such an approach and other regulatory authorities, for such an approach in the Financial Supervision Commission, to introduce personal responsibility and publicity of the decisions. So we can change the law so that no president can come out and say: I for these fines, which were sanctioned by the C.F.R.S. many companies, many media...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u19	Edna! Edna!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u20	I didn't know. That's what he said. He said he didn't know. I'm setting an example for the Vrachan website. He didn't know. It must be clear who is taking decisions in a regulatory authority, how everyone has voted, how the protocol is public. This change that the current majority has begun to make, to move on. It is not enough to stop just with the Court of Auditors. It's not enough to stop with the SEWRC alone. This approach must be introduced everywhere and it must be clear that the Member of a regulatory authority is clear how he has voted, that he has personal responsibility and that the protocols should be public. Not being able to get out of the C.F.R. and say, "Well, I didn't know. Other people made such decisions. I have heard such things, unfortunately, from the current President "It is not my call. The other people made these decisions. It can't go on like this! Finally, my fellow Members, I call on you to support together and argue this Commission, to forget and stop any speculation that is very irritating from the BSP, but the Commission's objective is different. It is not politics, it is not a vote of distrust to the Budget Committee. It is seeking the truth and improving the supervisory functions of the Financial Supervision Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u21	Here's your first line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u22	Mr. Dimitrov, why are you pretending you don't understand what this is about?! Of course it's a no-confidence vote to the Budget Committee! The very fact that we are creating another committee to carry out an activity that is within the scope of the Budget Committee, what does it mean? Our distrust of the Budget Committee! End of story! Do you doubt that there is an umbrella over certain managers in supervisory institutions? I don't doubt it. If you doubt, then do not vote for this Commission. Please, I'm not going to ask you to vote for her at all. On the contrary, this Commission is important because the Budget Committee has not done its job. It is extremely important that this Commission be on a parietal principle and it is even more important that the leadership of this Commission be of the opposition. Because if the leadership is from GERB or the Reformers again, forget it! Covering the C.F.R. will be the same as it was before. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, I want to specify the manipulation...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u23	You're in line with Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Don't involve anyone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u24	There was a missing from the Budget Committee "Vlado Nikolov, who was at the beekeepers' exhibition in Pleven and absent from BSP. Both were absent at the Budget Committee, and you will both not accept the votes, as never before on the Budget Committee have been accepted votes of absent persons. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] This was a precedent in your favor only and alone! They never accepted each other! You're going to tell me that the beekeepers' fair is more important than 16 billion. lv. debt?! [[Loud noise and lines in GERB.]] Who are these beekeepers?! Very nice, we respect them...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u25	But the line to Who is it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u26	Mr. Kadiev, I don't recall Mr. Dimitrov talking about the beekeepers in his speech. You have a line for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u27	Mrs. Tsacheva, you've been to this exhibition, too, if I'm not mistaken. Right? It was in Pleven.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u28	Make a reference to who was where on the plenary day. There's a transcript. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u29	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, did you see what kind of demagogy you got into? Have you seen with a vague subject how clear a result you will get from the start of this Commission? Don't you feel the tendency to work with through-the-book committees? Doesn't it bother you that, in the first version of what you signed, the competence of European institutions is derogated? Four directives have been crossed out, which have direct effect on our legislation. Yeah, I was pleasantly surprised by the disguise one of the importers tried to do. I'd like to ask: which is it we're going to check on the money or the C.F.R. or the legislation? We should check ourselves out. It is right to look the truth in the eye and say that if there are problems in the work of pension funds, these problems are laid down by legislation that we do not, but our previous colleagues have ruled. I admit that I was deeply surprised to see the proposal for the Commission in question. I admit that only from party discipline will I vote for her. Otherwise, my deep conviction is against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u30	- What's the line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I have a very specific proposal for the ruling majority. Colleagues, it must be our initiative and we must make these committees, because there is a need for revision and not only in this area. We must not leave anyone else, especially someone who has proposed and chosen Peevski, especially someone who has chosen Ivan Iskrov, especially someone who has chosen Tsvetan Gunev, to claim that he can be chairman of such a commission and that he can make a real revision of pension funds. There is a need for this and the commitment must be ours. That is, colleagues from GERB, not just support, engage. It is clear that without the largest party in parliament, such revision cannot be made. Let this become the commitment of the ruling majority. We will ask for a revision in the energy sector. This is what we and the reformers and GERB and ABB and the patriots have signed. A committee for CCB should be set up in which GERB and the entire ruling coalition should be engaged, of course, and the opposition should participate. Here the mistake is this: the mistake is that BSP I doubt that they want to take the initiative on this subject so that there is no real revelation of what happened and how the Financial Supervision Commission worked. The correct position in this case is as follows. However, politics, despite Mrs. Stoyanova, the unfair accusations against you are unfair, I stress, and we see from the Reformation Block that the group of GERB should also be involved so that a full analysis can be carried out and see how to change the legislative framework the majority in question so that supervision becomes better. Sorry, yesterday in our not even rear, and front yard happened KTB. There's no way the Financial Supervision Commission had nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it... That can't be right, guys! I specifically address the ruling majority parties: let these initiatives be ours, let us work on them, because we know who can make reforms, we know who, not only cannot make reforms, we know who has a status quo to protect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u32	Personal explanation Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Nikolov, Mr. Kadiev. We've opened up personal explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u33	Thank you, Madam President. I have to make a personal explanation because Mr. Kadyev continues to brazenly make personal accusations against me from the stand, and I cannot help but defend myself. I suggest before you make such speeches, Mr. Kadiev, that you deal with the texts in the Rules of Procedure, in the rules of work of the committees, and explain to your fellow Members how a Member of Parliament who has a commitment in his election area may, as a matter of fact, inform the management of the National Assembly and the Commission in which he is a Member, of his absence, by actually taking up the job and showing in writing how he wishes to be respected his vote and, inter alia, that the Member of the National Assembly is also required to participate in the vote, without even having taken the trouble of saying so through the words of another Party member of his. [[BSP LB.]] There is no way the rules can be changed at the request of one or another MP, Mr. Kadiev. Stop trying to manipulate the room on this subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u34	To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u35	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I have asked for the floor of speech because with such a serious topic to turn Parliament into a place for mahlenian squabbles, at least it is not serious. It is not serious about the situation in which we should approach, first of all, the position of transparency. It is our duty as MPs to restore trust in the pension system. The position of the Patriotic Front is principled and consistent. Dear colleagues, in the last two months in the public space there have been so many talks about what are the pension funds - are they pyramids, are they not pyramids, do they have income, do they not have income, how the law applies? All of this divided the society. The public no longer has the confidence it should have, namely, Parliament is the institution from which trust should be breathed. The Constitution does not separate you, honourable Members, from opposition and from ruling MPs. Your constitution has imposed an obligation to represent all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, no matter what party they supported. In fact, this Commission is necessary because, again, I say, this Commission will enable transparency. It is disturbing that in recent months we have received documents on which there is a Griff. Why would public information be classified? Who gave the order to secure himself? Who has reason to do this thing, and what is he worried about? It is even more disturbing when we receive documents showing the actions of another institution, which is now responsible for the collection of the money at KTB, that this institution does not really want to collect that money. My fellow Members, I must remind you that the money that is given from the Deposit Guarantee Fund's budget is a loan and we should want that money back because it is the money of the Bulgarian citizens. That is why the Patriotic Front has its principled and consistent position, and I believe that there is no normal MP here who opposes transparency, which is against trusting the system and, most importantly, people, to really have the right to this informed choice, from which all this exercise started. Naturally, to this day, we have not received an answer to the question: what imposed the exercise for this transformation and the movement of some cash flows forming, according to official information, 8 billion. lv. from the so-called private pension system (Silver Fund) or the second pension pillar (Silver Fund). My colleagues, do you not know that three years in a row the Silver Fund has not rehabilitated a penny of income?! Do you not know, fellow Members, that the Silver Fund for three years supports 2 and a half billion without even making interest income?! However, it was designed precisely to support the pension system, and in fact it is not able to carry out even this help, because these 2 and a half billion will not reach even in a month and a half or two. Don't you know that this same governor of BNB is a second term governor? He was elected by both the political forces and the other political forces, and all together had turned a blind eye to the activities of the so-called Bank insurrection because we saw that such a simply did not exist. However, the big question now is: is there also financial supervision that the Financial Supervision Commission must carry out? Or are we gonna come across that there isn't one at some point?! That's what this is about. I therefore call on you all to support the establishment of such a committee, which I think will do a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before my speech, I would like to make it clear that the GERB Parliamentary Group will support the so-called proposal for the establishment of this temporary committee. However, the GERB parliamentary group opposes populism, which we have seen since the beginning of today's parliamentary day. Mr. Dimitrov, what they were aiming to do on the left, was to create the feeling that this committee was created as a vote of mistrust of the Chairman of the Budget Committee Menda Stoyanova. I would just like to remind everyone here who was in the forty-one, forty-two and now, in the forty-third National Assembly: in the forty-first National Assembly the President of the Budget Committee was Menda Stoyanova. At the 40th National Assembly at the end of 2009, the budget deficit amounted to 900 million. lv. after the management of BSP, DPS and NDSV. What I can clearly tell you that at the end of the mandate of the Forty-first National Assembly, the budget, which was adopted in this Parliament with President Menda Stoyanova, was 0.45%. You know what the difference is? We are talking about a 400 million deficit in the face of a severe financial and economic crisis. So such statements and suggestions that are being made today by the plenary, this is only and only oh, so that there can actually be a systematic approach to attacks against the President of the Budget Committee Menda Stoyanova. Mr. Dimitrov, what I can clearly say to you: if you were sincere and correct, you could simply seek the assistance of collecting the signatures from the GERB Parliamentary Group and they would have been given. Because in the initiative of BSP, the chairman of the parliamentary group Mihail Mikov, and in second place the Chairman of the Reforming Block, you understand that we have already created the intrigue and suggestion that we observe for nearly an hour. GERB's parliamentary group strongly states that it will not allow such an approach to attack on a decent person, who in the years during the mandate of the Forty-first National Assembly stood for principled positions and the country's budget deficit was within the limits eligible for a member state of the European Union. Let me just remind you that at the end of the mandate of the Forty-second National Assembly and in the management of the BSP, the DPS and the attack, the budget deficit for 2013 ended at 3 billion. BGN, which means 3.7% deficit. Dear representatives from the left, will you give an assessment of the governance we have today for the President of the Budget Commission, who was in the period 2009-2013, and when the GERB government managed to remove the state and restore confidence in the European Union? Because you know that 2007, when we became a member of the European Union, 2009 because of discrepancies, operational programmes were suspended. You repeated it very skillfully and in early 2014, when also because of discrepancies, these operational programs stopped. Just to remind you that with Chairman of the Budget Commission Menda Stoyanova and the government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov at the end of 2014, these operational programs were unblocked and more than 1 billion were used. lv. money on operational programs from your management. Please, let us still have morals when we come out of this parliamentary tribune! I strongly state that the parliamentary group of GERB is behind Menda Stoyanova and will continue to stand in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly and she will be the Chairman of the Budget Committee. [[Applause from GERB.]] Similar statements and suggestions can only be in service, Mr. Dimitrov, BSP and left. We can clearly state that the GERB Parliamentary Group will propose that the chairman of this temporary committee be from the BSP, from the largest parliamentary group represented by the opposition, because we do not want in any case to have any doubts that Menda Stoyanova is able to manipulate anything. These are the documents she left here, [[shows documents]] and looks forward to electing the President of this temporary committee so that he can take these documents and get acquainted so that this temporary committee can be finalised more quickly, and if there are reasonable proposals for legislative changes, they will be taken into account by our parliamentary group. So, please, let us stop with these personal attacks from the parliamentary tribune, and let's get to the point, because on today's extraordinary parliamentary control day, we are actually drifting away from the essence of today's sitting. Therefore, I propose that we stop with this populism and move on to the vote on what you have tabled? You gentlemen on the left and from the Reformation Block. GERB will support and stand firm for this option for the President to be of the BSP Parliamentary Group. Here you are, gentlemen of the BSP, to manage this committee. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u39	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, honourable Members, you have repeated several times that personal attacks have been made on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Let me remind you a little bit of history. In 2005 Mrs. Menda Stoyanova as Director of the Territorial Directorate of Appeals and Management of Implementation in Plovdiv was fired by Plamen Oresharski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u40	It's not relevant to the subject under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u41	That's when I stood up for her. In 2009, when Tosko Todorov was to be fired, I stood in his defense. I mean, I've proven that I stand by people who get up. Mrs. Stoyanova's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u42	What's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u43	I haven't accused her for a moment for the period between 2009 and 2013. But what she did to the last Budget Committee was absolute and 100% manipulation and absolutely meaningless because it doesn't matter how the Budget Committee voted in the end. The decision on debt is made in the Chamber. Why did you have to do this, Mrs. Stoyanova? That's why it is the vote of no confidence to you because you cannot acknowledge the vote of one person who has gone to the beekeepers' fair to be alive and well, but not to recognize the vote of another person who is ill. This is why it is a matter, not for 2009-2013. Not to mention that 2009, when there was a deficit, the previous years had a 6% surplus and those debts that we paid 2005 2008, led to the debt of 20 and several percent in 2005, 2008 was 12.5, and now it is still 27% and the new debt will go to 33%. From now on, we enter a spiral of constant accumulation of new debts. Then who's to blame? Who's to blame? Then we'll explain how Mrs. Menda Stoyanova did her job well. With what? The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal The only positive thing in your speech is that you gave the opposition the right to lead this new committee. Whether it's BSP, whether it's another party, it doesn't matter. The important thing is the opposition, so there won't be any doubts in the umbrella.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't understand why Mr. Kadyev keeps trying...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u46	The line is to Mr. Tsvetanov, not to Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u47	Yes, Mr. Tsvetanov, I'm addressing you. [[Laughter and glad tidings.]] I listened carefully to your statement and some colleagues are trying to manipulate it. One of these colleagues just spoke and manipulated the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u48	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u49	I have written how this vote should be, and you, a colleague, are not a member of this committee because your group did not trust you to be a member of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u50	Mr. Nikolov, the line is to Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u51	So when you're not a member of the Budget Committee, don't give grades, because apparently you don't know the Rules either. You do not know how votes are made, how a person is released when engaged. And where am I present?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u52	Mr. Nikolov, the line is to Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u53	When there is black and white my vote what to be, you do not dispute it, because you do not even vote. Do you understand? You're a guest there. You can give opinions, you can talk to each other...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u54	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u55	...but you don't vote because your group didn't trust you to be on the Budget Committee. [[Applause from GERB. The Chairman turns off the microphones.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u56	Here's a third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsvetanov, I accept your contempt for us and should not have supported this Commission in this way. We should have actually, within the meaning of the coalition agreement, sat down with GERB, discussed things and not given BSP the opportunity to seize the initiative for something so important and something that people expect of us. So in that sense, I take the blame for us. However, I would like to draw your attention to you, here I am already calling on you to do it together, the legislative initiative that we are preparing from the Reformation Block, and it is about changing the Financial Supervision Commission Act in the way that we have amended the Law on the Court of Auditors. That is, to have individual responsibility, to have publicity, to have transparency in order to know what decisions this Commission is taking, who is taking them, who is voting them, who is supporting them, how they are making these decisions. I'm offering you this, indeed, as a bill, to bring it in together. We are almost ready with it and I think we can do it together and make things clear, because with such a Commission obviously nothing will happen. Just look at what the Commission's name is given. From now on it's clear that she won't investigate anything. It is practically clear to all of us that this supervision was not good at all, especially in the case of CCB and its consequences. Obviously this won't work, we have to do the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I can state categorically is that only with the votes of GERB can be elected such a Temporary Commission. That is why I call on you to stop with this negative energy that smells from the parliamentary tribune, to move constructively to a vote and to allow this Temporary Commission to carry out its work. I would like to thank the reformers for the assessment they gave and that we could actually avoid this pointless debate of wrong suggestions being made by the BSP. I am convinced that together we are much stronger than each individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] Mr. Kadyev?! [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] I can't give you a personal explanation. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] I can't give you a personal explanation. If you want another procedure, you can, but there is no personal explanation. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The next person to sign up is Mr. Karadjov. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] Let me remind you that there was an appeal by Mr. Tsvetanov to end the debate. This may only be your wish.Whether to comply or not, as I cannot put it to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I cannot agree to end this debate for the following reason. Here several times from left and liberal politicians talk about demagogy and for reasons unknown to me the mask of this demagogy is not taken off, it is not shown in the hall and to all the others who eventually look at us and listen to us from the cameras and microphones, where this demagogy really is. This demagogy is with the importer. You, ladies and gentlemen, liberals and left-handed, have recorded the following wording... [[Strong noise and lines on the left. A line from the MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Please don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u62	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u63	...of the Temporary Commission to investigate the financial situation of pension funds and the effectiveness of supervision over them: where is the vote of distrust included here or the vote of confidence? You are hiding behind this decent formulation to attack a decent person in the face of Menda Stoyanova to attack the Budget Committee. That is, your goal is not to get to the basis of what is the yield of pension funds, but hence ergo and of each one. You are not interested, you do not want to know how the Financial Supervision Commission controls these funds. You're interested in doing a political show, playing with people's fears and hopes. It's called demagogy, open your dictionary. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And finally, a no-confidence vote?! A vote of mistrust to you, esteemed left and liberal politicians! [[DPS lines.]] A vote of mistrust will be the vote of this Commission.. the votes of the Reformation Block, GERB, the Patriotic Front, the ABB will be the votes of a vote of mistrust to BSP and DPS! That's it. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Partial applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karadjov, it means that you did not sign the reformers under this request to set up a committee of inquiry. In general, if anyone comes to the Chamber for the first time now, he will think that this is a proposal of the DPS and the BSP, and it is a proposal of the BSP and the Reformation bloc. We at the DPS share the vision and Dr. Ademov said that the work overlaps with that of the Budget Committee. We share the view that the Budget Committee is doing its work accurately.It is even allowing interested media and a political economic circle, whose obviously speakers, representatives and mentors are you.This comes out of everything you say, but nevertheless we believe that the work is done correctly, accurately, in the interests of all Bulgarian citizens........................... to see what the state of the pension funds is. For this reason, we have stated and stated, although this Commission is unnecessary, we will support it and we will want to see what the real state of pension funds are, I say again, although this is clearly visible from the work of the Budget Committee. Just to remind you that the regulator is headed by Stoyan Mavrodiev, elected in 2010 by GERB Secondly, I wonder at GERB's decision regarding this Commission, but it is their sovereign right. Because calmly from this tribune, I can point to them and another accusation that when they come to power, a mass change of regulators begins. This is what they did in 2010. They replaced Petar Chobanov, who was at the beginning of his term, against any European rules, and now starts a new procedure in this direction. However, they will not do this because the truth is that we need to see how things are in the pension funds. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Second line? [[The National Representative Rosen Petrov wants the floor for procedure.]] Let's finish with the line-and-bottom procedure then. [[Reply from the National Representative Rosen Petrov.]] There's no way to assume an end to the debate at this point in time. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Reformation bloc has not signed this proposal. [[Lowered noise and lines from DPS. A line from the MP Hasan Ademov, who is waving the document.]] It was signed by Radan Kanev. [[Private applause. It's a thrill. Laughter. A line from the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Give it to me. [[(The National Representative Hasan Ademov goes to the stands and shows the document of the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov. Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u68	Mr. Karadzhov, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u69	But he doesn't know, he doesn't know... [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u70	Yeah, I'm sorry. [[(Sighs:) ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u71	Quiet, please! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u72	I'll repeat again why...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u73	[[DPS, from place]] He's lying from the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u74	...create this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u75	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u76	This Commission is being created because we are only interested in how much funds comply with the law and how much there is real income from the management of their funds. We are interested in whether funds are not diverted from the funds, whether the Financial Supervision Commission is doing its work through fingers is the intention of the Reformation Block, that is, behind the wording you have given, we stand, but behind the wording you are trying to sell today the demagogic wording that this is a vote of no confidence, we do not stand. That's my answer to Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u77	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you in connection with the fact that when people come out on this stand and prove themselves in the stands that they are lying, simply to take away their word so that they do not continue to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u79	Thank you. I'll try to apply it. [[National Representative Desislav Chukolov wants the floor of speech.]] Mr. Emil Dimitrov for next speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Why do we want such a commission? Obviously the main one doesn't work, there's no dialogue, the vote is being manipulated, people don't have confidence, so it's time to build it. That's what you do instead of standing up like sailors! Shouldn't you, GERB, initiate this committee? You could have, but you don't want to! Why aren't your signatures? BSP is ready with this proposal from New Year. Three weeks ago, in the Commission, I personally said it in the transcripts, the only thing I am convinced is that my money will immediately move it elsewhere. The second is that there should be a temporary committee, because obviously the permanent can't... In fact, instead of saying Temporary, I said exceptional and I was given a remark.............................................................. it was said................................... And then we're surprised by this committee. Three weeks and nothing from New Year's Eve, nothing! And you could've solved everything in the Budget Committee. You're showing a folder, Mrs. Stoyanova, but why now? Why isn't she here with me? I'm vice-president. Why isn't she in BSP and there's a vice-president there? The Commission showed some references that were in one specimen, and there were others who were secret... were not to be shown. Then what are these references for? Who should we give them to now? What do we expect? Clear, clear answer! For CCB, we don't have nine months. Three groups of people knew the supervision of BNB, auditors, management. The State Agency of National Security and the Ministry of Interior had to establish these things. In nine months a child can be born, and so far we have no clear answer. People want to know 200,000. Souls have lost their money, and now we convince them that there is no guilt. There has to be! We can't wait for the prosecutor to do our job. Do we have any certainty to date that if anyone decides to repeat the problems, we will avoid them? Or it was what it was, from now on it was the same again. With regard to respect for votes. We have one MP in Pleven in the electoral district, one in Plovdiv, one in Plovdiv is respected, the other not. The truth is that Vlado Nikolov told me to Menda Stoyanova that he wanted his voice to be respected in a precise manner, but then he had to honor the other. Vlado Nikolov in this case did absolutely everything possible in the Commission. Why do we want this Commission? In order to bring transparency to pension companies and companies, so that the people to whom the money is transferred are entitled to one informed choice, do they like to have their money there, do they want to be moved, where to be moved, do they keep, are they increasing, are they decreasing? Is that a bad thing? We also hope to obtain sufficient information about the work of the Financial Supervision Commission. In this regard, we are ready with a nomination. Thank you for agreeing to establish such a Commission. We could have solved it in the constant, but that's the way it is. In two cases, a temporary committee is made if the issue is too important and significant and takes away the activity of the permanent one and it cannot do its main activity and when the permanent one cannot handle it, we have to do it temporarily. I'm sorry it came to this step. Since New Year's, I've been warning you this is gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u82	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you very correctly said the BSP group was ready with this Commission from the New Year and everyone is currently surprised. How would they not be surprised if Mr. Grozdan Karadjov himself, who has signed for this Commission, now comes out and explains how the Reformation bloc, you see, had not signed for the Commission? He signed it himself. Not to mention Radan Kanev, not to mention Korman Ismailov and a number of other people. They don't know what they're signing. What committees do you sign as reformers, what reform will you do? Then you go out and explain here how it wasn't a vote of distrust, you don't know what you're signing! What are you doing? You come out here and you tell us some funny things. At least know what you sign when you leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u83	Second line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I would like to best ask you: what does it mean that since the Budget Committee has not resolved the issue, there should be a Temporary Committee of inquiry? What was the Budget Committee supposed to decide? To change the leadership of the independent regulator? Tell me exactly what he had to decide. The same question I'm asking Mr. Kadyev and my colleagues on the left. What hasn't the Budget Committee done that counts as a no-confidence vote? Firstly, there is a procedure in the Budget Committee to investigate the financial situation of pension companies. This week we will have a new meeting on this subject. Secondly, a procedure is under way to hear the regulator of questions asked by the circle "Capital", MPs and other media. This procedure continues in the Budget Committee. Do you know what this means to me, what you said: the work was not done in the Budget Committee, and for this reason it is a vote of confidence? To say that the work is not done, given that it is underway, given that it is working actively and that no question has been covered up, that written and oral answers are given, means that you expected from the Budget Committee, you expect this and now from the new Commission to come up with a decision to change the regulator without this being justified. There may be a change of regulator, we can ask for one, we can stand by such a request from the DSS, but we need arguments, we need facts, and the procedure is underway. You here on both sides say the same thing: the job is not done!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u85	Is there a third line? Colleagues, I look forward to the draft decision being edited. The way it's edited, we're not gonna do the job of voting it. Look at his operative, what was imported by the importers. Mr. Dimitrov, you have an opportunity for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm taking this opportunity to respond to Mr. Tsonev. The problem was the seizure of the initiative and the holding of the debates in a strictly defined direction. I don't want anyone's resignation. This place is designated for GERB "Whether it will be Menda Stoyanova or whoever, it is theirs. I personally do not see the need for a change. You just have to build bridges and build trust, not destroy it. Why should there be clarity? I want to know when I give 100 leva. in the bank that next year is 104 BGN, the following year is 110 and the third year is 120 BGN. I want to know, as my money goes, and someone has decided before 12 years to move them to me that they become BGN 105, BGN 106, or they become BGN 80, but I have to count them for 120 BGN, because the index was this, the coefficient was another, and the methodology was third. People want to know that money that is taken from them and it's handed over to them every time, if they increase, if they decrease, if they're there, if they're stolen, or if they're not to make their informed choice to leave them there, to move them to another fund or to go to the NOI. At the moment when the ruling majority asked the question that they could go to the NSI, a good decision to move the money, suddenly jumped and started some attacks. I'm not attacking either one or the other. It cannot be decided by the Commission. You're saying that a very important job has been done, I didn't get that impression. In order for this Commission to want it, it obviously couldn't have been decided there. I don't make political dividends, and I don't want them to be taken out. By the way, I am not going to participate in this Commission so you don't think I'm an addict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u87	Mr. Chukolov, after him, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u88	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, from the very beginning, I say that we at Ataka are very very much about the creation of this Commission. However, like you, Madam President, you said that we should remember what we are currently debating, namely the establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Study of the financial situation of the universal pension funds and the effectiveness of supervision over them. You remember, at the end of last year, when there were some changes to the laws that would somehow hit private pension funds, what enthusiasm there was in this room. Even from the Reformation Bloc had organized on duty with a paid rally outside the National Assembly building because we concern the interests of private pension funds. Since our creation we have said that we are against the existence of private pension funds in Bulgaria. It has to be clear. Private pension funds are actually some structures that get on duty money, just like that, without any of us knowing that even that money is going, there they will get it. Instead of this money, for example, to go to the Silver Fund or to a place that will make sure that this money works for the benefit of the Bulgarian pensioner or the person who will retire. Private pension funds around the world are just an instrument. In Latin America, for example, they are used for money laundering, in the United States of America, for example, they are used to be pumped up and then bankrupt. By observing how in Bulgaria certain political forces look at these pension funds, I'm just starting to get scared. I am scared because yes, they were created in the time of Ivan Kostov, and knowing what Ivan Kostov has done, I have no hope that they work for the Bulgarian people. Private pension funds and control over them must be really effective. We are for the creation of this Commission, but today what I see in the plenary, and this hypocrisy is unique. BSP importers change something about the text, then the Reformation Block comes out here Mr. Karadjov: O, foolish Grozdane, why don't you remember that you signed. [[Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]] You do not remember that you signed, the Patriotic Front came out on the topic to turn to GERB: "Ama, why didn't you sign?" You used this debate to fix your internal coalition relations. And something else. Where's the D.A. in all this? She also has to see if she has any control over these funds. We at Ataka are about to create such a Commission, the more control, the better. Hopefully, in one month, intensive work can be done and the truth about these pension funds can really come out. No one has ever directed their eyes directly on them, neither the prosecution, nor the National Assembly, nor the Financial Commission, nor anyone else. Let us do this, however, to really work in this Commission and to come out the truth. And it will be that, yes, these funds were created during the time of Kostov; yes, for years they have collected money from every Bulgarian, even without knowing; and yes, there may be political influence there, there are corruption processes. I see how much the debate has been watered down. It's just that the media are gonna catch this, too, how it's just another Commission that's not gonna end anything. Let this be the Commission that will do something. And I ask you, without this hypocrisy, to go out and say: 'It is not necessary for this Commission, but I will vote for'. And GERB said it, I heard it from the Reformation bloc and other parties. Let us stop this hypocrisy, let us do the work and see who stole the money of the Bulgarian pensioner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u89	Any lines to Mr. Chukolov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! This Commission is about the effectiveness of control. In fact, this is one of the main problems in Bulgaria. The supervision, the control, are we following the rules. The rules are not followed, so we need this Commission. We have a slightly different problem. With the second part of the Commission as a title, I agree. With the first one, why only the pension funds? Let's add the banks. In two or three months, we'll have a bank officially declared bankrupt. Let's add to this, I'm making an editorial proposal: the pension funds and the banks. We have a major problem that needs to be resolved, which has remained before the pension funds themselves, and we are doing nothing about it. Let's check the state of the banks, if supervision is carried out on them. Because there are concrete facts and we see them with CCB that supervision has not been implemented. I think it is very important to check our banking system is stable, are there other banks that are in a similar situation, such as CCB, what happens to KTB, where is KTB's money, to take action for an investigative firm to track what happened in that bank, and not to wait for it to be declared bankrupt first, the prosecution and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u91	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u92	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ananiev! You are raising another important topic, but I think it is dangerous if another big and complex topic is involved within the subject of this Commission, which is wide enough. This Commission will have to check, someone said: the activity of universal pension funds. There's no such limit. It is said to check the activities of pension funds. Why not also check the activities of the professional funds, which have not been paid for several years, although this had to be a fact? So she needs to check the activities of all pension funds and really see what communication is between the authorities dealing with this supervision and these funds, what are the regulatory rules. The idea that you are proposing, in my opinion, deserves to be considered, but use your dot to really share, I hope, what I am saying as reservations at this time. And also to say that if you initiate a Commission to check the state of the banks and the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank, I see no obstacle not to support such a proposal. But done by the way and mixed with the activities of pension funds means that this committee will most likely not work in either direction. So, I appeal to you, perhaps your colleagues from the Reformation Block, consider such a proposal, do it on their own so that we can make a decision on our own in the spirit in which you propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u93	Second line Mr. Tanchev, third line Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, how many people are here who are certified auditors, analysts, people who can really get into this topic and take some educated opinion? Who will be responsible if this Commission comes out and says that a pension fund does not diversify the risk or does not manage the money well and this fund fails? I think that there have been, especially since 2008 2009 in Europe, since these things took place in banking circles, since the bankruptcy of Limman Brothers very clear rules on who, how and how to investigate these bodies and who to give opinions. We do not have the authority, nor do we have the expertise, nor do we have the knowledge to rule on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u95	Mr. Tsonev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ananiev! I am using the right to a reply to try to really bring the debate back into the field of utility in the creation of this Commission and, possibly, the results of it. I want to ask you this. I consider myself a good connoisseur of this matter, but I cannot find enough knowledge in myself to define the term The effectiveness of any criteria, even odds, precisely defined interactions, called the "formules" or the "algorithm" of any kind. I do not know exactly what this Commission is going to examine as an efficiency of supervision, first. The second thing I would like to ask you, bear in mind that I am asking very well is this. The purpose of my questioning and my reply to you is to establish exactly what efficiency involves and how we will measure it, or how the Commission will measure it. I am not aware of such a term, such a concept in European legislation. The second part of my question and my reply is: did the importers bother to read the European directives and documents on control of independent regulators? If you had done this work, you would have seen that they were checked by two independent European authorities created for this purpose to check the independent regulators so that they would not be checked by the political authorities in the country concerned and influence them. This does not mean that the National Assembly cannot carry out such an inspection, but it means that the subject of activity, as Mr. Gechev, who is an importer, suggested, but took the trouble to read these documents and corrected the subject of the decision in view of these documents. I think he was right by correcting the subject of activity. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , without prejudice to the verification of the regulator, be careful of European documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u97	The point is that only the title has been corrected, Mr. Tsonev, which does not correspond to the subject of the operative activity. I continue to expect from the MPs who take the floor, editorial changes and the content of the decision itself. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u98	Let them do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u99	To do it, I expect. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u100	Mr. Stoilov, in connection with your line, I would say: if there is a wish, we can do it now. There is no need to wait, to discuss, to make a separate Commission and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u101	But there is an initiative from your group for such a temporary temporary committee. I hope you've been notified. The signing of the draft decision is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u102	Yes, but the point is that the proposal is for eight Commissioners, and we can make it 16. Half to check the banks, the other half to check the trust funds. [[Noise and lines.]] That's not a problem. The question is whether there is a desire to do such a thing, but I do not see much desire, especially on the left side. I understand why the CCB happened during their term of office, but we need to get answers to many questions, and that is how we will get them. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u103	Any other MPs? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor not for a detailed statement, as many opinions have been expressed, but only to make a proposal for editorial amendments to the draft decision. The application of four directives with regard to independent control of supervisory institutions has been taken into account and commented. I'm not gonna read the directives. It was also defined which are the bodies of the European Union that carry out such controls. [[Reference between the President Tsetska Tsacheva and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]] For this reason, I propose that the text of point 1 should take the following form: The part and the effectiveness of supervision over them shall be removed. Again, I stress that this is in view of the direct application of European directives, including the activities of the European Supervisory Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority. As an argument in plus I would also point out that by examining supervised entities, the arguments for the quality of the supervision carried out come from examining the activities of supervised entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u105	- What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirilov's lines? Come in, Mr. Tsonev. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u106	Thank you, Madam President. By agreeing with what Mr. Kirilov said, and he said to get the efficiency and supervision of them, I propose that, in line with what Mr. Gechev proposed in the title here, the state of the pension funds and the effectiveness of the regulatory framework on them. Because to investigate the regulatory framework means to see what opportunities all legislation gives to regulate and control these pension funds. The regulatory framework clearly includes supervision itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u107	Mr. Tsonev, because you speak at point one, the title speaks at all about pension funds. The decision at point one speaks of universal pension funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u108	They universal funds are part of the pension funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u109	The question is, what is the subject of the total, all funds or only universal ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u110	All funds. According to those who speak so far, all funds, in them, and universal ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u111	All of them? What about the voluntary ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u112	Okay, I hope Mr. Gechev makes it clear. Mr. Kirilov's second line? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I do not object to the clarification you have made, even though this is not a permanent job, because this assessment must be done constantly, even more when there is such a temporary group. Colleagues rightly noted that there are discrepancies in the concepts relating to pension funds, both in the title and in the task put at point one. Perhaps it is appropriate for a colleague from the Budget and Finance Committee to make a comprehensive proposal on whether it is for the universal funds, whether it is for absolutely all funds, to give the correct editing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u114	Procedure Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u115	Honourable Members, I propose a 15-minute break because many editorial proposals have been made. I'm sure none of you can repeat them all. We must unite around a consensus proposal. Please rest for 15 minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u116	Mr. Dimitrov, I will give the rest, but I hope in the operative of the Decision there will be a place where we will choose the members and they will be reflected. If we vote in this kind, the draft decision will do it, but there is no name composition of the Commission. Absolutely unfit Project for solution in this part. I hope, by discussing it, you will also comply with this and propose a valid Project for a solution. Fifteen-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u117	Colleagues, please take our seats. The meeting is continuing. The word is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the details have been made, we propose the final version of the draft decision. I'll read it in full: A decision to set up a Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pension insurance companies and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework. The same text has to be reproduced in t. 1 by adding to it a period of one month. "2." The Commission shall be composed of 8 members, one from each parliamentary group, including the President and Vice-President. 3. He elected as President of the Commission Cornelia Ninova, Vice-President "Nastimir Ananiev," and as Members "Vladislav Nikolov, Yordan Tsonev, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Chavdar Peychev, Lyubomir Vladimirov and Mariana Todorova." All parliamentary groups with one representative are included, as required by this article. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u119	Is there any lines to this proposal statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Mr. Gechev, when presenting the draft decision on behalf of the importers, did not read the project itself with the relevant grounds. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov proposed editorial changes that will be voted on, but I am obliged to read the draft decision as it was submitted for the reasons on which this Commission is being created. An initial version which, after a vote, will undergo a change in the version: Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Study of the Financial Status of Pension Funds and the effectiveness of their supervision The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall set up a Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of universal pension funds and the effectiveness of supervision over them with a period of one month. 2. The Commission shall consist of 8 members, one from each parliamentary group, including the President and the Vice-President. I put to the vote the proposal, which was highlighted by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, for the name of the Decision. We are voting on Mr. Stoilov's proposal for the name of the Commission Decision. Vote 156 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Dispatch of the Decision, e.g. The title of the Decision is reproduced, with a period of validity of one month, as Mr. Stoilov suggested. We vote on it. 1 in the edit of Mr. Stoilov, a fruit of the efforts of all colleagues during the holiday. Vote 159 MPs: 156 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Stoilov's proposal for a new item. 3 with the Commission's staff - one chair, one vice-president and six members - 8 in total - one from each parliamentary group. We are voting on the new item. 3, which is proposed to the Decision. Vote 162 MPs: 159 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the whole Decision with its name, the basis on which it is adopted, with its two points, the first, changed editorially, and the new item. 3, which we just accepted as a deliberate decision. We vote on the full version of the Decision. Vote 159 MPs: 155, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Before we move to the next point for the parliamentary control scheduled until the end of today's sitting, I would like to introduce you to a letter of the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Television of 12 February 2015: "Dear Madam President, I appeal to you about the difficulties that arise in connection with the regular and extraordinary parliamentary control that BNT broadcasts directly from the plenary of the National Assembly. The events that I will set out below are related to the forthcoming National Assembly meetings where parliamentary control is being held. In particular, an immediate problem exists for the following dates: On February 17th, today, an extraordinary meeting of a long duration is envisaged. According to your decision, it will most likely continue until 7 pm and this will lead to serious changes not only in the daily but also in the evening program of BNT 1. We will be faced with the decision to seriously reduce the duration of news and up-to-date-public transmissions in this time zone, as well as to deprive ourselves of several advertising blocks in the most viewed time. On February 27, 2015 we are faced with a similar situation from 10:45 pm to 12.30 pm, according to a Sports Event coverage contract of international importance, the program of BNT 1 should broadcast the start of the World Ski Cup in the town of Bansko. For these reasons there is an opportunity for the Bulgarian National Television to transmit Control, as has happened before, on BNT 2, where there is an opportunity for its broadcast. First in today's PARLIAMENT CONTROL It will be Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, but a little more patience to deliver the written answers. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimitrov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Hristo Gadzhev, Valentin Radev, Plamen Manushev and Miho Mihov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. He will first ask his question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Willy Lilkov about a public procurement to strengthen the landslide on Blvd. The city of Shumen, a section of the road with a corresponding number, the locality of Peti. We're listening, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u120	Dear Madam President, Minister Pavlova, honourable Members! The question I have asked is really with this topic, which the President of the National Assembly read. In fact, it boils down to the following: why does a public procurement, which is declared as a reinforcement of a landslide, eventually become a public procurement for building a bridge over a landslide? Any engineer who has worked in this area will immediately sharpen his ears and say: "Well, something is wrong here! " - Matter of fact, what is wrong and why am I asking my question? On 30 July 2014 the municipality of Shumen announced a public contract with subject: "Design and implementation of a construction site for the site................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Shoumen from Shumen village of Divdadovo. In connection with this project was conducted a preliminary engineering and geological study by .Geotechnics ABC., which you notice, is funded by MRRB to strengthen the landslide and the conclusion of the company is that the system on which this task is to be achieved is a strengthening system of aquropilot. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6.3 of the documentation which the municipality of Shumen is developing is written: The main purpose of the public procurement is to remove inappropriate and defective material from the road lane, i.e. to cut the landslide, etc. 6.4 is added: The purpose of the public procurement is the construction of two bridge facilities. Yet here it is evident that it is not taken into account the expert opinion of the company, which was chosen and paid by the Ministry of Finance to say how this public procurement should be executed. There were three companies involved. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Association "Bonding Engineering" and consortium "Hydroalians" "Varna."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u121	Please ask your question. Time's up. I gave you a sound signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u122	The Commission for Protection of Competition has suspended the contract since it has vague conditions. Furthermore, it is claimed by the public procurement review, which was carried out by the specialized newspaper "Strojetor" of many such public contracts, that there is no competence in this public procurement. It's very interesting that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u123	Mr. Lilkov, I'll take your word for it. It's been two minutes. I gave you a sign, you continue what you wrote. The Minister has it, give the time you have to ask yourself the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u124	Okay. Do you accept naturally that the municipality of Shumen has ignored the recommendations of the Geotechnics ABC? Why are bridge structures which are really expensive and ineligible in the case of the reinforcement of landslides in the area recommended by the Commission and in breach of MRDP Regulation No 12 which is mandatory for the study, design and strengthening of landslides? Will you challenge the verification of this public procurement because of the obvious violations of disclosure of the conditions to be won by a company dealing with bridge construction?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u125	A minute and 25 seconds out of time. That's how much I'm gonna hold you back from that line. You'll have 30 seconds for a line. We're listening, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, as you rightly pointed out, the situation with the public procurement to strengthen the landslide in the town of Shumen is worrying. It is disturbing because I will not read all the chronology I have in the case, despite the funding provided by the Ministry for preliminary engineering, geological research on the route as a recommendation of what are the necessary activities to strengthen this landslide, in the announced procurement, which is for designing and strengthening the landslide, we see different in our own sense, according to our object and content activities of the public procurement. As early as June last year, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works asked the mayor about the reasons, as well as a request for an explanation on the subject, with particular attention given to him that according to the letter of the Geotechnics ABCs, who was the author of the engineering and geological study conducted in 2010, whose contracting entity is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, expressed the position that the activities provided for in the preliminary project and in the public procurement will not guarantee the strengthening of the landslide. There is no answer so far in the Ministry. Last month, we sent again a letter requesting information from the municipality, providing information, and ensuring that the conditions would be met, the recommendations from the geological survey will be met. Until now, unfortunately, and to this day, there is no reply to this letter. According to your inquiry and your question, we will also refer this inquiry to the State Financial Control Agency, which has a commitment to monitor the implementation under the Public Procurement Act, and on our part the Ministry will initiate a procedure to verify compliance with the Code of Conduct in the territory. These are the opportunities we have. Of course, and you have this opportunity to refer to the competent authorities that will also do the necessary verification, as I say again, Shumen Municipality, the mayor is not answering the questions raised at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u127	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u128	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to add Minister Pavlova that at the moment, the company that has won the contract is processing its project by providing for an anchor pilot system to be added to the bridge structures, which means more than 160 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the This is for me a public procurement supposed, where the best engineering-geological solution has not been chosen, so I will refer to the prosecution on this matter. I also call on the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to intervene with all possible legal mechanisms to terminate this public procurement and to move on to a normal choice of contractor. This order has been set up in the interests of companies implementing bridge facilities, unfortunately. Thank you for your answer. Excuse me, Mrs. Tsacheva, for breaking the regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u129	But you've already entered the schedule, Mr. Lilkov, for which I thank you. Will you use a hole, Mrs. Pavlova? No. The next question is of the MPs Yavor Haytov and Hristo Todorov regarding the legality of the mosque. The question will be developed by Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is related to the legality of the newly built mosque, which is located in the Roma neighborhood of the town of Pazardzhik, and in particular: who owns the property; is there a building permit issued; is there a permit for use, the so-called Act 16; as well as the method of acquisition of the property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u131	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Todorov, Mr. Haytov, in response to your question specifically on the topic. First, the property of the plot.. this regulated land property, on whose territory the house of prayer was built, is owned by Janko Dimitrov Mishev on the basis of a contract of 2001 for sale of municipal property through tender. Regarding the building permit, there is an active Detailed Development Plan which was approved by the order of the mayor of Pazardzhik Municipality in 2001, according to this Detailed Development Plan the property was assigned to a prayer home. At the request of the owner of the property in 2001, a visa sketch was issued by the chief architect of the municipality for the design of a prayer home. The main architect of Pazardzhik Municipality also issued a building permit No 134 of 2002 for a prayer home on the basis of agreed and approved investment projects and a decision of the expert council on the structure of Pazardzhik Municipality. The license to use and Act 16 were issued again in 2011 by the main architect of Pazardzhik municipality. He also issued a certificate No 215 for commissioning the construction of the Molytvena home, which is the fourth category of construction within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the territory and is entirely within the competence of Pazardzhik municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u133	A line? You won't use it, so you won't have the back. The third question is of the MPs Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov concerning the need to carry out urgent repair and reconstruction works at a road facility Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u134	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Our question with our colleague is about the need to carry out urgent repair and reconstruction works at a road facility, a bridge over the Maritsa River, along the Republican Road III-667 Fruity. Dear Minister, the above-mentioned facility of the Republican road is in an alarming state. A small area of the pavement is worn out and multiple holes and striations are visible, separately openings are available on part of the bearing structure. This condition of the bridge makes it extremely dangerous for passing motor vehicles. It should be borne in mind that this is the only facility above the Maritsa River connecting the settlements between the north and the south bank of the river and the only connection in the region from the town of Plovdiv to the town of Dimitrovgrad between the first-class road I-8, Trakia Motorway and the Maritsa Motorway. The facility is extremely important for some of the neighboring municipalities Asenovgrad The intensity of the movement of motor vehicles along the bridge is high and the current state creates prerequisites for road accidents. Therefore, Minister, our question to you is this: given the current winter season, do you plan to carry out the appropriate emergency actions concerning the bridge being put into normal operation and if you are planning, what time will they be carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u135	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, dear Mr. Dubov, in connection with your inquiry, I would like to give some history regarding the bridge facility that you are referring to. This bridge was built in 1928. His operating condition was indeed very bad, including this bridge allowing movement only in one direction, with waiting for passage. A detailed survey of the facility has been carried out on what its characteristics are, how and how they could be improved. The opinion of the experts as a result of the expertise carried out and confirmed by the Expert Council in November 2012 is that the bridge facility is overly aggravated and cannot be placed in such a condition as to allow it to pass through heavy traffic over 12 tonnes. That is why the decision has been made, as a recommendation of the Council of Experts, to remove this bridge from operation in the future and to build a new bridge facility that will tie the third-class road that you refer to, Fruity. We currently have a new technical solution for this bridge facility. It is also necessary to develop a parcel plan, because the bridge that can be built next door must be attached to the existing road, for which there must still be expropriation of properties, development and coordination of a plot plan. At present, the indicative value of a new bridge facility is 8 million. lv. Unfortunately, this amount is not provided for in the budget. However, what we have in the budget is a repair of the bridge so that it allows its passage and its use, but with the limit of up to 12 tonnes. Vehicles above 12 tonnes will have to use the bypass route that is given, and this is the road through Popovitsa to ensure the safety of the moving ones. It will remain and will be renovated after the winter season is over.. in the spring until May of this year to ensure safe travel of passenger cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u137	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The lines, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u138	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. It is very good that one month after our inquiry, which is from 9 December 2014, you have issued an order for the development of a parcel plan, but as you have confirmed yourself, the bridge is in a miserable state. It is a small legend in the municipality of Parvomay that the former Wehrmacht? the Federal Ministry of Defence, ten years ago, wrote a letter to the owner that the bridge was out of service. Then, 1992 "1993," partial repairs were made. I see that the Ministry has started at speed the process of drafting the plot, but let's hurry until Mr. Bozidar Dimitrov has taken this bridge to the museum because it will indeed remain a museum exhibit if it is not repaired in time. I'm giving you some actual pictures from the bridge. You won't even walk through it. Here you go. [[Gives pictures to Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u139	A hole? I understand you won't use it. The next question is from the National Representative Cornelia Marinova on the policy of the Bulgarian Republic of Bulgaria on the collection of the debt owed to the company.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u140	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My current issue concerns the policy of the company of Lovech, the collection of the debts due to the company. Within the framework of the Forty-second National Assembly, I asked for a reference on the debtors of the "Vik" "Lovech," natural persons, legal entities, budgetary organizations. From your answer with your I.D. No 02-02-88 of 23 June became clear that the number of debtors to the company amounted to 41 thousand. 813 subscribers, with a total amount of 3 million debts. Seventy-five thousand. BGN, of which 2 million 230 grand is overdue. At the same time, according to my information, voluntary debt agreements with some of the debtors were concluded at the end of 2013 by the end of April. 2013 but clearly from the references to be applied, on 31 May 2014 the obligations remain. Company, conditionally to call it a number one company, with an amount of 41 036 BGN. at the end of May remains to owe 40 324 BGN, another one with an amount of BGN 117 696. according to a repayment plan, he still owes nearly 60,000. lv. In this regard, on the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution and Article 1 of the Constitution. 92 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you to answer the following question: how many and who are the subscribers of the Bulgarian National Assembly, Lovech, legal entities, budgetary organizations, with the extension of the obligations on 1 December 2014 for more than two months? What is the total amount of the company's shortcomings at the same date? What effective measures will the Water and Water Department of Lovech take to collect the debts?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Marinova. For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Marinova, the financial situation of both Water and Water and Water companies throughout the country is certainly not good. In the coming months, we are going to conduct a comprehensive analysis of their situation for 2014, as we do at the beginning of each calendar and financial year. A detailed reference can be obtained from the Ministry within the limits of the possibilities provided by the Rules of Procedure, as the information is detailed with numbers and numbers. I'll just say a few generalizations. The total number of subscribers of legal entities having an overdue obligation to the company by more than 2 months on 1 December 2014 is 635. This includes 29 budgetary organisations. The total amount of overdue liabilities at the date on which your request is made is 454 thousand. BGN, of which 180 thousand lv. are commitments of budgetary organisations. With regard to the non-profit you are asking for, the total amount of all the company's poverty as of 1 December amounts to 2 million. 200,000. BGN, including 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. are from individuals and 636 thousand. lv. ..by legal entities. What should the water company do? Undoubtedly, there must be a very serious policy regarding recovery of claims, first of all, according to the order of legal notification of subscribers, and then to proceed to civil cases to establish these overdue debts and enforcement cases for forced collection of debts. This is our instruction, which we have given to this water company and to the other water companies to take all necessary action to collect the debts that are overdue for more than two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u143	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Why did I ask that question? I did not expect to receive a positive response in terms of the amount of collection of overdue liabilities. I didn't expect it for a few reasons. First, because at the end of 2013, a General Assembly of the company was held and a new board of directors was elected. A man with an education of a textile engineer was elected as CEO. Nothing personal, but this is about expertise, it's about management experience, it's about a necessary common culture for the sector, which unfortunately the CEO doesn't have. The other thing that bothered me during this whole period of time after 29 May 2014 was the change in the structure of the water and water supply and the drop-out of the Department of Realization and Control, which is responsible for the activities of the claims, for the actions of complaints by citizens and companies. Undoubtedly, this is an important department in the structure of the company, which was intended to work to minimize the overdue liabilities for their collection. Moreover, the employees of this department made daily reports on the amounts collected from the overdue debts. We need to stress thickly that the obligations of natural persons are of a 3-year limitation period and after the expiry of the period they are paid by limitation, resulting in direct losses of the company and for regular paying agents through the cost of water. I am pleased with your response to the measures. An appeal in your person is not to come to such blatant examples of professional incompetence and professional inadequacy as we witnessed in the previous term of office. Lovech was one of the victims of a similar case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u145	A hole? I won't. It is a matter of MP Nikolay Alexandrov about the water companies with predominantly state participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is aimed at a rather broad subject, which has a very broad public interest. I've also mentioned it in a written matter. We are talking mainly about three companies "VAC" in Shumen, Targovishte and Varna. There are many interesting practices in the companies in question. For example, in Targovishte and Shumen, if there is a leak, they can remove it from you after the excavation with the high-tech handlebars. In Varna, where I live next to the Colkhoz market, it is normal that once a week there is no water for several hours. There are a number of such interesting things. If there is rain in Varna, the channels return about 15 cm, and in some cases when the rain is more, the channel can return more. It is precisely in view of this and to stop these practices, as on the territory of these water companies are perhaps the highest water prices that people pay in Targovishte is close to BGN 3 in Shumen, too, but my question to you is: when will the practice of decapitalization of companies be stopped? When will real investments be directed to these companies so that people will not be affected by this policy? You know there was a protest last week in Shumen about drinking muddy water. The same is the situation in Targovishte. If you experience the water there, you will be told that it is not suitable for drinking and is not recommended for bathing as you can get skin diseases. In Varna, if you are predisposed as a pearly mussel, because of the limestone you can get to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u147	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, undoubtedly the issue of water companies, their financial situation, as well as the need to reform the management of the sector and invest more investments in improving water infrastructure is an important topic. It is a priority within the commitments the Ministry has with regard to investment in the water sector. From this point of view, regarding the more general inquiry on the topic of the company's decapitalisation and investment opportunities, the issue is up-to-date as far as you know that within the framework of the reform, in which we are going step by step, for the consolidation, regionalisation of the sector and for the possibility of targeted investments for its development, we are currently reviewing the assets of each company. Those assets must be described and maintained in a special register in order for their management to be provided through the Water Water Associations to those operators with the clear commitment to investment to be entrusted. You know that in June the new regulatory period for which each of the water companies, including the three water companies that you mentioned, has to offer the next 5-year investment programme. With regard to the specific decapitalisation. We will do what is necessary by writing off the assets to undertake financial accounting operations so that this does not negatively affect and does not recapitalisation companies. We are currently using the World Bank's expertise to develop the specific financial and accounting model. On the other hand, you are undoubtedly right that we must do everything we need to do, but so that not only in these water companies, but also in all others, we can direct more investments to improve the plumbing and sewerage, there will be no loss of water that we are talking about. There a commitment to rainwater and the channels you mentioned have commitments and the municipalities themselves. This is what we do in the framework of the requirements, of course, the regulations, the laws, and the macroeconomic conventions towards Bulgaria, so that Bulgaria can absorb the provided investments under the Environment Programme of more than 2 billion. lv. and the funds provided for under the Rural Development Programme - about half a billion leva as an opportunity for investments in plumbing and sewerage. However, these funds have their conditions for having regionalised, corrupted management of water companies at regional level, developed regional investment and pre-investment research to be clear exactly what the needs are, rather than simply investing funds at the discretion of individual municipalities or water associations. What we have as an action plan and as a ministry with responsibility for coordinating the reform measures is to do what is necessary for this 2.5 billion. to be targeted in the following years by 2020 to improve infrastructure on the ground. For the individual water supply may be in a separate matter, as the time has not reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u149	In the back, Mrs. Pavlova. The line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your answer. However, I hope that we do not have to wait until 2020, although for another 5 years. I don't think it's right for the residents of Shumen and Targovishte to continue drinking muddy water for five years or trying in some way to purify their water. I also hope that these cities, as well as other municipalities in the relevant areas, can acquire water treatment plants, as well as waste water, because this is also a problem. Perhaps you should actually look at the water sources from where the respective municipalities draw water, as there is a problem there too. But I'll introduce you to this in my next question a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u151	A hole? I won't. A question from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov about the update of the electoral lists and their cleansing from the so-called dead people. We're listening, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister, for years in the public domain, as you know, the topic is being debated with the so-called "dead people"..... to the extent that the voting lists are up to date and whether there are any such dead people............................................................................. In relation to the public interest and the obligation of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to direct the organizational and technical preparation of the elections, as well as the data in the media that 800 thousand are on the electoral lists. I must point out from the information provided that the Republic of Bulgaria is at one of the first places in the number of living centenarians, of which 56 people are more than 110 years old, the Minister-General, this information, makes the public doubt the credibility of the electoral lists, which is why I have the following questions to you: when was the election lists last updated by the Directorate-General GRA? What is the number of voters over the age of 110? I mean, living ones. What is the number of voters living abroad? I hope you will really give a precise and clear answer, which is most important to society and finally stop speculation on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u153	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, the topic with the so-called "dead souls" is present especially in election year. Before I give a specific answer to your questions, I would like to make one more clarification. According to the Election Code, the electoral list for all elections, of course, if there are any special requirements, as it is with the so-called "Sedientity" for local elections, should include all Bulgarian citizens who have an identity card, whether they live on the territory of the country or live anywhere in the world. The theme has or does not have dead people in the polls what you say, over 800 thousand. It cannot be confirmed, as these are living people, Bulgarian citizens holding an identity card and living in the territory of any country in which they have judged. It's their right. Another is the issue that the Election Code regulates that all Bulgarian citizens registered in the National Registry of Populations in the National Database of Populations are intended to be printed in the so-called electoral lists. With a change in the Election Code, this can be changed, and then the requirement will only be the so-called "active registration" "only those who have registered willing to vote in the respective elections" will be published on the electoral list accordingly. It is a matter of judgment and a question of changing the Election Code. So there are no dead people in this sense on the electoral lists, or perhaps the exceptions that you mentioned, for those who are over 110 years old, yes, they are! According to the current data of the National Base "Population" at January 51 people are centenarians, namely those who are over 110 years old. Whether they're alive or not, I can't say we can't judge. GRAO employees are not allowed to write off a person, any Bulgarian citizen from the National Database.Population, if this person is not given a death certificate. If we give such power to a civil servant, many Bulgarian citizens can be written off by the National Base. That's the reason. A legislative change could change this requirement and allow those persons if they have died if there is no act of death or have died in the territory of the country and, accordingly, the Bulgarian authorities have not been informed, on the basis of official procedure, of any other documents to be written off. For the moment, the law does not allow us to write off these persons, and we do not have the authority to check, and we do not check whether these persons are alive or not. On your third question: how many Bulgarian citizens registered abroad? These are 521 920 according to the current data reference of the National database "Population." Probably their number is much more since registration is voluntary. When they go abroad, they must be deregistered and registered at a current address in the territory of the country where they live. They don't do that very often. This is why this number is probably not the current number of Bulgarian citizens abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u155	The line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, which, by the way, brings us into a few more hypotheses, which I think you understand yourself. What are the hypotheses? Firstly, there is a very serious gap between the official data from the Ministry of Interior, loaded with the task of issuing ID cards, namely that on electoral lists the voters have the right to vote is 6 million. 900,000. I'm quoting from memory. People with issued IDs are 5 million. 900,000. In other words, it's the only place we have a difference of a million. I have not accidentally touched on the issue of the centenarians because there we are going to another hypothesis, namely that these people under the Bulgarian Identity Documents Act are not obliged to supply ID cards. Some of them are still working with those green passports, some of the colleagues may remember them. In other words, they also fall from this hypothesis. The third hypothesis, which I think is very good for advertising activity, can safely be announced in the Guinness record as a country of centenarians. You know, and I've done checks myself, and I've even discovered the tombstones of people. Indeed, there is already a criminal problem there, and someone is taking advantage of the dead people and getting even a pension on their backs. I think this is a very serious question. It is a matter of synchronization between the relevant institutions. Nevertheless, I am pleased with your answer and thank you for really working hard. I hope from now on to follow an initiative from you for synchronization, because it is also being abused by the pensions of the dead people. Many of the town halls and municipalities do not do their job on proper conduct, although they themselves know that these people have died, especially in small towns. I think we need to change this personal file blacking system, if I may say so, by civil registration. If people don't know, he's wearing a pencil. This chart can be changed by a mayor whenever he wants, and for whatever time he wants, I can turn you into a man, a woman. These are cases we've shown many times, believe me. [[Radio, noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u157	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u158	Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, we still need to make one clarification to be correct. The National Base is an electronic register and is not supported by a pencil, but is an electronic database. This database is updated daily with the Ministry of Interior database, so it is not so easy for a Bulgarian citizen to be changed by a woman man and vice versa, and what you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u159	If you want, I'll show you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u160	Another is the issue, however, that the update of this database may have to be made in another order and especially for electoral purposes with a change in the Election Code if we move on to the so-called "active registration." Another clarification I'd like to make. The people with the so-called green passports you mentioned, or those who don't have ID, live abroad, but have an international passport, are also part of this database, so don't... This one million Bulgarians you mentioned are Bulgarians living abroad. They may not have an ID, but they do have a Bulgarian passport. This passport is also correctly reflected and is taken into account in the current reference by the National Base "Population" about how much Bulgaria's population is, although some of these people do not live on the territory of the country. Otherwise you are right, I agree, there is a need for legislative changes to regulate the order and way of forming the electoral lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u161	We move on to asking Mrs. Manolova and Mrs. Yankova about the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the renovation of residential buildings. We're listening, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u162	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Minister, GERB's election campaign for local elections has already started. You found it as usual loud and fanfare with the solemnly announced National program for renovation of homes or as already known among the people National program for buying local elections. And like any election campaign promoted by GERB, the National program for renovation of homes is overgrown with myths, with bare promises, with elements of the deal. The first myth of sanitization is free. Only, as it turns out, this lunch isn't free. It'll be worth $1 billion. BGN, which will be withdrawn from a Bulgarian bank, and then the debt, and the interest will pay all of us Bulgarian citizens. For you, against the backdrop of the 24 billion foreign debt you intend to withdraw, perhaps 1 billion. lv. It's nothing, but it's not for people. Those who live in distressing areas without a roof over their heads are asked why should they pay for the renovation in large cities to people who are not socially weak or at least one part of them, and they can probably pay for their own repairs? The second myth of 36 apartments for renovation of a block is fair. Not at all, because this excludes virtually many buildings that desperately need renovations and all the small municipalities in which the buildings are under 36 apartments. The third myth is first at the time, first in law is objective and fair. Whoever first applies will be sanitized. Promise for naives because the mayors of GERB long ago have the Methodical guidelines for renovation of residential buildings. They have them a month before they're officially announced on your Ministry's website. I have this project from the first days of January. [[shows project]] . I was given by the mayor of GERB, let's say in general, from Northeastern Bulgaria. So the mayors of GERB already know which blocks and which districts, i.e. polling stations will be sanitized and how many votes they will receive. The fourth myth of the Sanitation would support the local business. It is true, only half, because the renovation will support the companies of GERB, after which they will sponsor the local elections under the scheme with 15% of the value: "Saniate and sponsor." With our money, you will buy your choices. This is my question, this is the asking of Bulgarian citizens. Please explain your policy for renovation with the criteria included in it and with the participation of mayors and MPs from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u163	For a response within five minutes the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Manolova, Dear Mrs. Yankova! Myths and legends, Mrs. Manolova, you are a specialist in myths and legends and not only, but I will not stop on this subject because I think it is important to be correct to all Bulgarian citizens and to make the myths and legends widely proclaimed by you clear once and for all by this parliamentary tribune. The first and very important thing to note is that the National Program for the renovation of multifamily residential buildings is open to all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnic, religious or party affiliation or sympathy. The national program is valid for absolutely all Bulgarian municipalities, where there are panel, multifamily residential buildings built by industrial means. It wasn't made for just one community. All 265 municipalities can receive funding as long as there are these types of buildings that meet the requirements on the territory of the municipality. Also a very important clarification that we need to make is that in addition to that it is for all municipalities, let us not forget that not all municipalities have mayors of GERB. A fact, as evidence, which contradicts your myths and pompous statements, that even the first municipality to register an association, to enter into a contract and already to have an upcoming contract for financing with the Bulgarian Development Bank is Vratsa Municipality, which is not managed by the mayor of GERB, but, thank God, the mayor, unlike you, is committed to making it necessary for all living in the municipality to have a chance, an opportunity to receive funding under this National Programme, which is apolitical. This National Program is for Bulgarian citizens. I understand your concern, because maybe if it were you, you would have made it party-oriented. If it were you, you would have done it to distribute by sections, votes and voting and to be on the principle that you said Our principle is not such for all municipalities, for all mayors, for all Bulgarian citizens who live. A million and a hundred thousand households live in panel buildings. These are over two and a half million Bulgarians who have the opportunity to receive funding under this programme without discrimination for them, and the residents in the smaller buildings, under 36 apartments, from January next year will also be able to apply and receive funding. So the program is, among other things, targeted, yet I say, the maximum solidarity, social model that we are trying to offer in the best, most transparent way possible. With regard to the companies they will perform. Companies that can participate will be elected in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act with an open procedure by each mayor, regardless of which political party it is raised or elected from. Companies that can participate are all small and medium-sized companies that work throughout the country. After meeting with the Chamber of Builders, these are over 2,500 companies that have the opportunity to participate. We have set the explicit condition that companies that are small and medium-sized and companies that want to apply to meet the condition that a company will take over the renovation of a building so that in each municipality all buildings that are renovated can be renovated by separate companies. This guarantees, first of all, the capacity that the company has to make sure that there are enough workers to work. This will enable a larger number of small and medium-sized companies to participate in this process. This ensures employment, this will also enable a lower qualified workforce.. In fact, the biggest percentage of unemployed are those to participate in this process and in this programme. So there will really be a chance and an opportunity for many companies, which is a good opportunity for the economy of municipalities and regions to be able to happen. Mrs. Manolova, I understand you're worried. I understand that because it usually goes more to a left-wing government to conduct such a social policy. [[Applause from GERB.]] I suppose you are very angry that we are conducting such a quality social policy, which will also lead to the economic development of the regions. I appeal to you as a responsible person, join me, support this programme, because it is for all Bulgarian citizens, without dividing them by political affiliation. It's socially responsible behavior. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Your behavior, which you are trying to wrong, creates fear and terror in people, only from political, I would say, selfishness, not from anything else. Don't be selfish. I understand that you have started your campaign, but our campaign is aimed at citizens, not at aiming at some or other elections. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Evidence of this is that the program will function for at least two more years. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u165	For two supplementary questions, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u166	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister Pavlova, after January after the announcement of the National Program, the citizens of Bulgaria are discussing and this is good. They discuss responsibly, discuss and care for the state's budget and what will happen in the country. The first question they asked me about and asked me from the stand you to answer is: how does the government of Bulgaria, represented by you now in the Chamber, see the solidarity model with the implementation of this programme? Because people say, "We'll pay together a billion." The target group under this Programme is one million and seven hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens. Six million Bulgarian residents will also pay. The issue that is going as a discussion has another angle that Mrs. Manolova addressed. From the statistics and from the Program adopted by the government of Saxe-Coburg in 2005, it is apparent that in four cities "Sofia," Plovdiv, Burgas and Varna, 50% of the panel buildings are concentrated. Will the principle of random selection be random, or will it be allocated to these cities? Make an estimate of how these documents are expected to be submitted. I see nothing wrong with the fact that the mayor of Vratsa, a good mayor of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, has submitted the first documents because in Smolyan's management of the 50 blocs under the UN Programme, ten blocs have been realized during my term of office and you very often set Smolyan as an example. That's two questions that sound. I will also say one thing: submit to the parliament the National Program for the Building Fund of Bulgaria. Teachers ask, doctors ask and all those involved in the public sector ask: why is there no fair road map program and with a solution to all the problems of the country on this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u167	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, thank you for your questions. I will answer your specific questions. First, in terms of the solidarity model. Yes, the solidarity model sometimes requires, you know very well whether it is in the pension sphere, in the social sphere, and in this case it is like an investment in housing.. it often happens that we pay more people for a smaller number of people when they need that kind of support. But let's say that this one billion does not cover all residential buildings and that one million and one hundred and twenty thousand households, which means over two and a half million Bulgarian citizens who live in these buildings, but this is only the beginning. Because you know, as you mentioned, the UN Programme as well as the Regional Development Programme, that we have an additional 300 million in the Operational Programme. BGN, which is provided for from next year for all other and smaller buildings - panel and not only panel and brick, so that we can cover to the maximum extent all multi-family residential buildings, whether they are 36 or under 36 apartments. When you talk about how a billion will be paid by the budget, this one billion investment is worth it. It's worth it because the more buildings we make, like you said, the better. And not only that. Let us not forget that a billion gives an opportunity for investment, for economics and economic development. I can give a very clear example. It is linked again to your region, which you also mentioned. One billion has been invested in the Tsankov Stone....one billion taken out of your decision, invested in the Tsankov Stone, which produces 80 megawatts of electricity... only 3% of the electricity. With this billion investment in improving the energy efficiency of residential buildings will save much more electricity and Bulgarian households will feel really at their expense, on their budget, that their accounts will be reduced dramatically. You know very well because you mentioned the ten buildings in Smolyan. They're an extremely successful model. The people of Smolyan, your fellow citizens confirm and confirm it every day - 60% - the accounts of the ten buildings in Smolyan have fallen. Isn't that right, Mrs. Yankova? [[Reply by MP Dora Yankova.]] It's a huge amount of saved electricity, so this billion is worth it. Even together, we must do what is necessary and provide several billion more, because this investment is much more meaningful and sensible than megalomaniac energy projects without a clear end result. This is the right approach and I agree that there should be a common national support programme, renovating the housing fund throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u169	For attitude, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u170	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, I am listening to you and I cannot wonder when you were sincere the other day in Plovdiv, when you said:.............................. who you are voting for if you want the sanitation to be free of charge!..... or today in Parliament when you explain that you will not apply party criteria. Also, I do not understand why GERB MPs have become campaign promoters [[GERB noise and lines]] , slid on the panel neighborhoods and explained to the citizens: If you want to be renovated for free, vote for GERB! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] If you were among the people, you'd probably know the sanitization jokes that are already being told. For example, how Lilyana Pavlova and Boyko Borisov in a Sofia neighborhood between four panel blocks...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u171	You're in parliamentary control mode, if you want to tell us jokes, I'll give you a break...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u172	I'll tell the joke after.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u173	Take Mrs. Yankova's example of the way she referred to asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u174	Do not teach me how to express my attitude towards Mrs. Pavlova's demagogic response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u175	You're the only one who gets it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u176	For your information, the companies of GERB by region have already received instructions to register 5-6 small companies in order to be able to participate in the renovation and then under the principle of "sanitate," sponsor, sponsor the election trap of GERB. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's why the citizens are offering their money and they are against it with their money You buy your elections, demand to be created civilian monitoring committees because they don't believe you because they want to check how the time of the first at a time will be measured, how will the construction activities be assessed, how much exactly will you inflate them and by what criteria will the executive companies be selected? [[Comments from GERB. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] In fact, as the MPs are also interested in this topic, we insist and import [[shows folder]] for a debate on this questioning and Project for a decision the National Housing Sanitation Program.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u177	Thank you. Time's up...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u178	We will want a change in the criteria and civic control in GERB's attempt to buy local elections. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u179	Question from the MPs Radoslav Stoychev and Kiril Dobrev on repair of the second-class road II-62 Dupnitsa Here you go, Mr. Stoychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u180	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The road II-62 Dupnitsa, which after Samokov passes on route III-82 and leads to the city of Ihtiman, and hence to the highway of Trakia, is part of a Republican road network. This time it connects the newly built highway of Struma and Trakia Motorway. The same path is in a very compromised state and very often traffic accidents occur on it. In 2014, funds of 35 million were provided. BGN, excluding VAT, which was the estimated value for the rehabilitation of road II-62 Dupnitsa The same procedure was stopped vaguely by Georgi Bliznashki's office. My question to you, Minister, is: what are the reasons for stopping the rehabilitation of road II-62 Samokov What are your intentions to implement the rehabilitation of these important roads for transit traffic in Bulgaria in 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u181	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u182	Mr. Stoychev, Mr. Dobrev! With regard to the Dupnitsa direction, Samokov includes two roads: 38 km section of the second-class road Dupnitsa, Samokov and 37 km from the third-class road Samokov - Ihtiman. They were originally intended to be included in the Project "Transit Roads V" by adding Lot 23 and Lot 24 of the existing sections that are rehabilitated in the implementation of the programme. As you mentioned in mid-2014 there are announced tender procedures for Lot 23b, which is the Dupnitsa section of Samokov, and Lot 24 for the Samokov section of Ihtiman. As a consequence, the Road Agency has redesigned the Dupnitsa section of Samokov because of the fact that they have found that the tender procedure is declared with a technical assignment, which is not up-to-date and does not foresee the current state of the road, does not include the need to build an additional third strip in certain sections, for which there is no established plot of land plan, and the necessary alienations have not been made, although there is a partial donation of land from Dupnitsa Municipality. With regard to Lot 24, the analysis of the two procedures shows that they are declared as, unfortunately, there is no provision in the budget for the specific financing and repayment of future contracts. This is the first argument we have in the report from the Road Agency, which within the service cabinet, as you rightly pointed out, has suspended the tender procedures on both lots. For Lot 24, restrictive conditions relating to the choice of contractor are also laid down in the announced procedure. This is also the reason why these two procedures should be terminated so that the design, the parcel plan and the updating of the project Dupnitsa Samokov, and for the Samokov section, Ihtiman could be overcome the penalty for the available restrictive conditions. What I can say is that for 2015, unfortunately, the limit of funds that we have to pay in the framework of the mutual agreement on the Transistrian roads is not allowing us to include new sites. This is the reason why we are currently not announcing the tender procedures again. What we have done, however, is to predict sections of these two paths in our new Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 - 2020" which is financed under the Operational Programme "Regions" in the European Regional Development Fund with grants, as you know that the funds I have been talking about so far are funds with a loan. That is why we have foreseen three sections of the road Samokov "Dupnitsa" to be included and financed under the Program "Regions in Growth 2014-2020" and sections from Kostenets to Samokov, also to be provided for and financed under the Programme "Regions in Growth" in the axis that finances Republican roads throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u183	A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u184	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I understand from your reply that there are a lot of ambiguities regarding the entire procedure that has been conducted and that a selection procedure has been carried out without funding. Also, there are problems in the project-crap paperwork that follows. You said the inclusion in the new programming period of rehabilitation of this road, including on the road Samokov "Kostenets." Does this mean that the technical problems regarding project documentation have already been cleared and that an application for these roads can be started in the new programming period?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u185	Duplica, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u186	Yes, what you said and summarized is correct. There is a need to update the projects. It's current. As you know, we expect the final version of the Operational Programme to be approved by June of this year "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" and then we will make it possible for the Managing Authority "The Road Agency" to apply with its projects as updated on a list. For those of them, as these two sections that you mentioned, we do not have a complete project readiness Agency................................................................................................ The actual implementation of these projects may begin in 2016 after, of course, successful conduct of tender procedures for the selection of a contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u187	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Borislav Iglev has postponed his question. The next question is from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva on the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Previously on the application on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a proposal for a debate on questioning, No 554-05-8, dated 21 January 2015, submitted by the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of MRDPD for the renovation of residential buildings, together with the Draft Decision, I declare that the request was signed by 50 MPs, that is to say, the condition of the regulations one fifth and more MPs to have the right to request such debates. It is attached to the draft decision signed by the same Members of Parliament. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, the conditions have been met and, on this basis, I declare that the next day for parliamentary control will take place on Friday 20 February 2015, at 11:00 p.m. a debate and a vote on the submitted draft decisions will take place. Mrs. Tasheva, you have an opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister! First, why only the Owners' Association under art. 25 of the law on floor property management can apply for 100% demand. I stress this word, financial assistance under this programme, which has become popular as the Sanitation Program? On what basis of this possibility is excluded the General Assembly of the owners under art. 11 of the same Law, which under art. 17, para. 2, p. 5 of the Law on the Management of Floor Property can decide on renewal, on the implementation of major repairs, on the absorption of funds from the European Union funds and/or from the state or municipal budget, on grants and subsidies and/or own funds or other sources of funding, and with a majority of not less than 67 per cent of the ideal parts of the common parts? Secondly, in Plovdiv, on 7 February 2015, you told 400 people that the Owners' Association The question of why the type contracts between these associations with the municipalities for grant funding did not include the word "freedom', that is, there is no such condition, you said that this was implied. To the question what would happen if the next government did not understand the treaty and caused the associations to cover the cost of renovations, you said:....... who do you vote for.......................................................................... Personally, I'm not surprised that you and your government declare the funding partially free. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Only until the next election. Please answer who will pay the cost of the renovation. Like who's gonna pay off the loans...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u189	Let us not explain, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u190	...which you will draw to sanitize?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Tasheva! I will specifically answer your questions. Unfortunately, I must point out that you interpret my speech and the way you interpret it and quote it is incorrect and incorrect. But once again, for the sake of clarity, I will highlight on each of your questions what is the answer I have given then and which I will give today, and it is absolutely equivalent. First, as regards who can be a recipient, a candidate, respectively a beneficiary of the funding provided by the State through this national programme. As stated in the Decree of the Council of Ministers for the definition of the terms and conditions, as well as the persons participating in this programme, it is regulated that the recipient of the free funding within the meaning, including the Law for the granting of qualifying minimum State aid, is a non-profit legal entity, namely the Association of Owners, a target registered association with limited powers, that is why it is explicitly stated in the instructions that this Association of Owners is registered in the performance only of art. 25, para. 1 where it is explicitly indicated that this is an association with limited powers, which is aimed at applying, receiving free funding from the state. That's why it's required. Because the State as granting minimum State aid must have its recipient within that non-profit legal entity registered within the meaning of art. 25, para. 1 of the Law. You are certainly right that the General Assembly of a building has the possibility, as regulated in the law, to manage floor property, to manage the building, to solve problems related to the common costs with the common ideal parts, but the powers and purpose of this association is to be limited and to manage only the project as such. However, the General Assembly is a mandatory condition that it agrees at all to take a decision with a minimum of 67% of the owners of ideal parts to participate in such a project at all, to register an association and to follow in the steps in order and mechanism and conditions. So, yeah, without the General Assembly, we can't. It will continue to function within the meaning of the overall management of floor property and the building. However, for the purposes of the project, we need this non-profit association to be a recipient, including subsequently, as the subject of civil control is also mentioned, but here is the topic of control, acceptance of the construction works carried out, it will also be the recipient of future guarantees from performers for good quality and performance, including in order to be able, if necessary subsequently, if there are any problems or defects, to present these guarantees and to remove defects. With regard to the constructive investigation, it is clearly stated in the guidelines, and my response was that the constructive audit, as well as the measures for the constructive strengthening of the building when it concerns its constructive sustainability, are part of the Programme and are financed at the expense of the programme. With regard to the third question [[the President signals that time has run out]] , if you allow only 30 more seconds.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There it is regulated exactly what you said as a freebie. What I said about the next government concerns the subject that the next government may decide not to continue the programme. This does not mean that those who will have contracts with the bank will not complete them in accordance with the terms and conditions of the free funding. What I have said is that the next government may decide to stop in the future no new projects, no new funding and no further implementation of the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Mrs. Tasheva, you have the floor for a line in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u194	Madam Minister, you haven't answered my question. You said it was a regulated legal person to be a beneficiary of the aid, and my question was why a legal person and not the General Assembly of Owners, which the law provided the possibility of being such. You didn't answer that question. Secondly, I would just like to say to you that although the legal person is being created, as you claim, only for the needs of the Programme, excuse me, but this is a legal person, it can very easily be burdened with debts brought into bankruptcy and liquidation, notice, not by members of this law, but by members of another law, by the Commercial Law. Read art. 37 and you will see how to liquidate the Association of Owners of Floor Property. There they refer us to the Non-profit Legal Entities Act, which refers us to the Commercial Law. In other words, these owners' associations are clearly and simply interpreted as commercial firms once they are liquidated and terminated under the Commercial Law. There's one more thing I'd like to add. You're talking about a solidarity model, energy saving, social policy. No, it's not social policy. If you were, you'd be setting priorities. Your program has no priorities. For example, we start with the oldest panel blocks, because they have the most need to sanitize the ones that have been built in the 1960s. Or, we start with the poorest social strata, for example, the Cypriot dorms in Lulin 1, where people do not have and will never have the opportunity to sanitize their homes. Thirdly, if you were really saving yourself because I live in such a home, remember, and I have direct impressions of what they are, if energy was saved, you would start, as the relevant European directive dictates, from the primary, then the secondary and finally the tertiary sector, the private housing fund. First you would sanitize and energy to ennoble state and municipal housing, then the business buildings and industrial halls and finally, after all this is over, after all schools, hospitals and so on are sanitized and glittering, move on to the private sector. You have no priorities, which is why your program is not social. There's nothing solid about her. It's a gesture. You haven't answered another question, who will pay the loans that you will withdraw from the World Bank or from another bank against a guarantee of 1 billion? Who's going to pay them off and how are we going to pay them off?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u195	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, first of all, I would like to clarify once again that under the law, the General Assembly continues to function, manage and manage the functions of the building. The association which is registered under art. 25, para. 1 is targeted, with limited powers, for non-profit purposes. It is not liquidated, as you said, within the meaning of the Commercial Law, as a trading company, because it is not commercial and will not operate in that sense. Don't interpret the law that way. Let's be honest. This company does not have these financial powers and commitments. It will not maintain accounting and there will therefore be no need to follow the liquidation procedure that you mentioned. When we talk about energy efficiency of buildings, whether public or private, we need to make efforts in two directions - both public and private buildings - to be energy-renewed. Your speech was incorrect as to the fact that the state and the government do not invest in energy efficiency in public and municipal buildings. On the contrary, only under the Regional Development Programme, and it is not the only source of this type of funding, there are financed and built more than 1500 buildings - schools, kindergartens, hospitals and other social, cultural and health institutions, which received free funding for renovation and energy efficiency. The program is going well right now. The new Programme "Regions in Growth" also includes investments in energy efficiency. The same applies to small and medium-sized enterprises and factories. They also receive free funding under the Competitiveness Programme of the Bulgarian economy, where there is once again a target budget line for energy efficiency for the buildings of enterprises, small and medium-sized companies, factories and so on. Such a financial line is also provided for in the new programme for the new programming period 2014-2020. It is precisely because there are programs for public buildings, there are programs that finance private buildings, so it was correct and correct, because we from all member states of the former socialist bloc, where there are panel buildings, are the last and only country in which there are no targeted programmes to renovate the building fund of panel buildings and buildings built by industrial means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u197	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Radoslav Stoychev on the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u198	And what was that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u199	It's a series of questions. There's been one question and one question, so it's on. That's not even the last question. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u200	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Our question with colleague Stoychev is about the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. According to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees................................................................................................ 24, para. 1, t. 18 and 19 are tax-free property owners who received energy class B, C and D certificates. Is there an analysis of how much the revenues of the municipalities from this tax will be reduced? How much would it make the financial stability of some of them worse? Are measures planned to compensate them?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u201	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov, dear Mr. Stoychev! I am aware of the detailed proposal, the opinion and the position of the National Association of Municipalities, which expressed a desire within the Energy Efficiency Programme for buildings renovated with public funds, not to enjoy the opportunities provided for in the Public Finance Act, especially in the Local Taxes and Fees Act, where it is said that buildings that are renovated and are energy efficient can enjoy tax relief. My opinion, and also after consulting my colleague, the finance minister, I believe that this proposal should be supported, as otherwise those who receive public resources, public funds for the renovation of the building, cannot receive twice relief, the second time they receive relief in local taxes and fees. That is why a team and the Ministry of Finance are preparing, of course, to your attention for debate and voting, changes in both laws to regulate that when energy efficiency measures are financed by public resources, in these cases building owners cannot benefit from tax relief. If there is little time left, I would like to add that even if we do not use these tax reductions, the tax after the renovation of the building does not increase dramatically. I say this to inform those Bulgarian citizens who want to participate in the programme. The calculations of the existing software model for the calculation of local taxes and fees show that when renovating, insulation, constructive strengthening and replacement of the building tax, which is due for 80 square meters of apartment, the calculation was made for similar ones in Sofia and Blagoevgrad, the average increase is about BGN 1.60 and if the apartment is the only one, this amount is reduced by 50%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Popova. Mr. Stoychev, come in for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! You said that such a legislative initiative is being prepared by you and the Ministry of Finance for a change in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, in particular in art. 24. When exactly will these changes enter the plenary to be voted, as the programme is progressing quite well and the sanitization itself is already knocking on people's doors. We want to know when this will enter the plenary so that these changes can be made, as a consequence of which people will know whether or not they will be exempt from this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u205	Mrs. Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u206	Thank you for that question. Let us clarify that the change in the laws relating to local taxes and fees must be made this year, and the entry into force of these changes will be effective from 1 January 2016. Even for those buildings that have been renovated through 2015 will be due only in 2016. That is why we cannot and should not change taxes in the middle of the year. They won't be due this year. We will ensure that these changes are dealt with in the schedule within the framework of the legislative programme of this National Assembly by summer and enter into force from January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u207	Thank you. To the same topic there is another question from the National Representative Manol Genov about the published Draft Methodical Guidelines for the National Energy Efficiency Program of Multifamily Buildings. You are welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the program has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers because the question was asked at the time when it was published for discussion. Madam Minister, it is written in the Program and in the Methodology that associations of owners of multifamily residential buildings can apply, in which there are not less than 36 individual sites, 36 apartments in one building. My question is extremely specific: by what criteria is it determined the number of individual objects in a building to be exactly 36?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u209	Thank you. Madam Minister, let's hear the mathematical formula of this decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, yes, your question was asked when the Project of the Methodical Guidelines was published on the site. I'm sorry that Mrs. Manolova is missing because she was trying to tell how there are apocryphal versions and texts of these methods of instruction, given to some, and not given to others. That's not true. As you rightly pointed out, they were published on the website of the Ministry, after which all mayors, regardless of whether they are from GERB, BSP, DPS, or from any other political party they have been raised, were invited to discuss this project of the Ministry. With regard to your particular question. It is precisely these discussions that we have had when terms and conditions were regulated, and precisely because the 1 billion resource is not enough to cover at the moment, immediately all residential buildings, as well as the experience that we have, including the UN Programme, through which we have implemented over 50 buildings with energy efficiency and measures, show that it is most difficult to renovate buildings that have many entrances, block sections and many floors, because the most difficult is the collection of own resources, own resources or co-financing by the owners of these buildings. This is why the goal was in the first year of the Programme to give more opportunities to the largest buildings in which there are the most entrances, the most living, with this 100% free funding, from then on step by step, from next year to include the smaller buildings. That was the reason. Why 36? 36 came at the suggestion of architects, constructors, familiar with this type of panel buildings about how they were designed. They walk on this principle. This was the reason to start from a minimum of six-storey buildings, because those with 36 are average six-storey buildings, with three apartments per floor and two entrances from there to start and expand. I'm using the case to say one more thing. It is precisely in order to obtain the integrity of the Programme and its comprehensiveness, apart from the requirement for 36 apartments as a minimum in one building, that when the building has several block sections and several entrances, they should be included in total, together, and not separately, that the individual block sections apply for the re-animation and renovation of the buildings and the blocks per piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Mr. Genov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u212	Mrs. Pavlova, I'm not happy with your answer. A moment ago, in the debate that was about asking the colleague, you said the door was wide open. On the contrary, these 36 individual objects so tightly shut the door that I have in the end concerns that this program will turn out to be a balloon. I have heard several times and read your media appearances that the opposition was against it. No, the opposition is not against that. From this tribune I say that we support it, but we do not support the way it happens. Once we oppose a certain group of people who live in a 36 - apartment building. What about the ones with 25? The second time we oppose private property again, according to the Constitution, it is equal, people having private property in other buildings built not in an industrial way. True, the program promises next year or pό next year, but, understand, the people do not believe promises. The other delusion is that it covers the territory of the whole country, all 265 municipalities. That's not true. There are 18 municipalities in Plovdiv. Only seven of them have such buildings that would be eligible for funding under this Programme. I hope that in the debate that we are going to make on Friday, there are other issues with regard to the methodology, with regard to contracts, what disturbs people, to clarify it from this platform, indeed the Programme will work and ultimately achieve this efficiency, this energy consumption will be reduced, as you said, by 60%. I really hope that happens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u213	Thank you. Mrs. Pavlova? You're not taking advantage of the back. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Ayhan Etem, concerning Republican Road III-101, in the section Vratsa You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we all know, the Northwestern region has prevailing lasting, chronic economic problems. In this regard, Republican Road III-101, which is third-class, from the national road network of Bulgaria on the territory of the districts of Vratsa and Montana has important social economic importance for people living in this territory. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: in what terms and in what way will you provide funding for the repair of Republican road III-101, in the section Vratsa Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u215	Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Etem, the path that you are quoting is certainly in a very unsatisfactory state. That is why this time meets the criteria and is included as a priority for funding under the new Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" where its renovation is envisaged. These 19 kilometers off the road are on. 19 kilometers, because it includes road connections and nodes that you mention. The indicative value for the repair activities, together with all accompanying measures for construction supervision, measures for the publicity of the information under the European requirements are estimated to be 12 million. lv. This time it is on the established list, so after the approval of the Programme, the Road Agency will have the opportunity to apply for its actual funding. However, its rehabilitation will only be possible in 2016, after all public procurement procedures have been conducted. That is why for the toughest sections of this time after the winter season is over, as every year, analysis and emergency patching of the most critical sections, these holes on them to provide a relatively good one, it cannot be a good but relatively good passage through the road network until the time for the overall rehabilitation and reconstruction of this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u217	Thank you for your answer. Here's a line for you, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, what you mentioned is a light in the tunnel and regardless of the difficulties ahead, in solving and designing this road section, I hope you will do everything possible this time to be included in 2015 because, as you have agreed, its condition is quite severe. My question is asked this time of year for a reason. My recommendation to you is to signal at Regional Road Management at least at the station, the branch for the village of Rakevo, to make sure that the holes are patched up, because indeed the landscape there is a lunar landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u219	Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov about the cost of drinking water in the municipality of Targovishte. You have two minutes to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is related to the cost of drinking water in Targovishte, because, as I said earlier today, it is one of the highest in the country. I think its full value, with VAT is BGN 2.74. for a cube. m, and according to data, this water is totally unsuitable for drinking needs, and it is not recommended to bathe with it. That is the situation at the moment in Targovishte's territory. There are also a number of other problems related to this. I return to my earlier question from today that if your pipe bursts in front of the block, they will come, patch it up with a great discovery, a wooden wedge, then they will bury the pipe, which further leads to worries about the deterioration of the quality of drinking water. This is where we go through the fact that Targovishte is drawing water from the dam, which is once built, but not for drinking, but for drinking needs, where they draw water from both Shumen and Veliki Preslav, and Varbitsa, but lacks a treatment plant to it, which is also a problem. I said earlier, there was a protest in Shumen about 200 people who were against the fact that they didn't want to drink mud from their water. The same is the situation in Targovishte. Separately the water company in Targovishte has a good practice, if the channel is blocked in front of your block, they come and collect you 30 BGN. at the entrance, to be able to unplug the channel, and according to data of at least people I've met, this is probably happening within ten to fifteen days once, that is, twice within the month, which further leads to additional revenue. From another point of view, it is obtained that if you live in Targovishte, there is an additional column in your account to the water supply, where it writes from a common water meter, or it is water that you have not consumed, but there is one common water meter in your entrance that is charged to you. I will provide you with an old gentleman's account, but this will already be further developed in a replica, so please answer me: what does this most expensive water require and most unfit to use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u221	Here you are, Madam Secretary. In fact, the question is raised wider, apart from the cost of water and its quality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, regarding the situation with drinking water in Targovishte, it is also closely related to the quality of water in Shumen as well as Shumen and Targovishte are supplied by the dam. Unlike Shumen, though very old, Targovishte has a treatment plant built in 1979. A treatment plant that needs serious renovation and repair to meet the requirements for purification. It is also included in the so-called "General Development Plan" for the investments needed in Targovishte district. I hope that, already within the pre-investment research and design of the needs and investments to be financed under the Environment Programme, we will also include the renovation of this treatment plant. What you said, however, about water quality does not correspond quite to the situation, as for this water we have the opinion of RZI (District Health Inspection), which does not prohibit its drinking or bathing, as you said, and it says that it is not recommended for drinking, and the instruction given by RZI to the corresponding water supply is to increase chlorine in order to make the necessary dehydration of water. The fact is, the water is cloudy. It is further contaminated with heavy precipitation or snow melting, so these are currently the instructions that have been submitted. This is what performs the water quality water water company accordingly, so that it is safe, as you said, at least for bathing. Since there was a line from colleagues in this House who are still specialists in this sector, let us once again say the opinion of RZI that it is not dangerous, and only not recommended for drinking. It's not dangerous for bathing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u223	Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I don't know RZI's position on how safe she is. I tell you what people say. If RZI thinks it's so safe, I will personally try to ensure that they continue to bathe in such water, but I think that as much as I told you earlier today: let's make sure that people do not in 2020, not in 2018 and 2015 to be Europeans, to drink clean water. Just because there has been a treatment plant since 1979 doesn't mean that nowadays in Targovishte, clean water is being drunk. And you don't even drink one of these, separately by hand, if you put that at the cost of their water, cucumbers that they didn't use, from a common water meter, separately for those who didn't use this water, and they're also charged a waste water treatment fee. However, really, if we go in the direction of even the development of the regions, this is a region that will, according to statistics in 2018, be with the most ageing population, with the poorest population, one of the lowest income regions in Bulgaria. These investments are needed now. I appeal to you not to make investment post-factum any longer when we won't need it, but preventively, if we can do it at the moment, so that we can provide a better place as a habitat, for the lives of the people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u225	We move on to the last question to Minister Pavlova from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov and Kalina Balabanova about the construction of a crossroads in the town of Provadia. Mrs. Balabanova, please come to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! As a result of meetings held by me and my colleague from the Political Party, Mr. Alexandrov in the town of Provadia, Varna, we received an inquiry as to when the ring road of the city will be built. This is necessary as large trucks are currently passing through the city centre due to lack of such a road, and leads to a number of risks, as well as pollution, and noise from passing trucks. You are, of course, well aware of the problem and as a candidate MP from GERB Party of 3 Mir "Varna." As early as 16 April 2013, you are saying to the inhabitants of Provadia, I quote: "It is our desire to work on the development of integrated projects in the next programming period, to include both the road around the road, the tourist route and attractions. Your speech is reflected both by local and national media. After the October 5th elections last year, you were elected MP from Varna district. Shortly after that, you were elected Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, which gives you the opportunity to realize the promise you personally made to the inhabitants of Provadia. In this regard, I ask you to answer us: when do you intend to fulfill your personal commitment and the government to build the ringroad of Provadia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u227	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Balabanov, dear Mr. Alexandrov! The construction of Provadia's tour is a project, a very old project related to the development of road infrastructure in the region, a project on which construction started in 1984 and was discontinued in 1991, with the components on which the construction started then, this is a large road facility, a bridge to include this bypass route. Construction has been shut down ever since. In the past 25 years, such an investment has not been made due to the fact that, as often happens, the road infrastructure development sector is extremely underfunded as it is currently. The construction of such a bypass, as well as the complete repair of the Aytos Pass, which gives the connection between North and South Bulgaria, as part of the Republic's passes, are important and measures must be taken to update them, to bring them into good operational content. It is a fact that in talks, as you do, I do meetings before, and now with those living in Provadia, and not only in this region, this time is important and I hope for him in time to provide sufficient financial resources to be built up. What we foresee, as the first stage, is rehabilitation of the Pass and bringing it into a good operational state, and then to do before the investment study on what are the necessary means to complete the walk of Provadia. These are the financial opportunities available to the Road Agency at the moment, and this is the project on which we are scheduled to work this year and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u229	Thank you. Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I remember there was a song, if I'm not mistaken, in the early 1990s, where it was sung: I dream at night that I dug the subway from................................... to............................................ Now it's the same situation as around Provadia. Let's do it so that provadians don't dream about it until they dig the tunnel underneath Kaleto and actually set some deadlines. I would ask you here, from the stands, to come out and tell us what these deadlines are: how long will the financial assessment be, how long can it be included, since when do you foresee any repairs? Because, he, the Pass, is nice. However, there is one place where a car and 25% of another car can be removed, one narrowing down, but actually passing heavy goods trucks through the transition, as well as passing through Provadia, is very intense. In fact, there were moments during the summer and bans to cross and to cross, i.e. a violation of cars of greater tonnage than was permitted, so this thing must be stopped and at the very least give a little peace to the Provadians that they will have a modern infrastructure and the city can actually start to develop again, as it once was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u231	Thank you. Madam Minister, we're done with the questions for you. Thank you for your participation in control. We are now moving on to the questions to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. She will answer a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov about not cutting specialists at TPP Varna.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, given the delay in the answer to the question, it is from 18 November 2014, perhaps we should build on it for the reduction of specialists at the TPP Varna. The 85 that have remained and those who are registered on the labour market. The TPP was the second largest thermal power plant in Bulgaria and on the Balkan Peninsula with a total installed capacity of 1260 megawatts. At the headquarters, at the moment I ask the question, more than 300 people are working, more than 700 employees from external service companies are engaged separately. The main obstacle for the plant to continue operating after 31 December 2014 is the lack of sero-cleaning plants. Highly qualified energyists protested and expected the intervention of the ruling sector so as not to lose their jobs. The specific question to you: what is the state doing in the face of the Ministry of Energy in order to continue the work of TPP Varna, as an important production power in the energy system? What measures will you take to create an opportunity to create new jobs and not to shorten and remain unemployed? As a matter of fact, there are currently 85 employees at the plant and are ready for emergency inclusion. Information has come out that the operation of the plant has continued since January 1st, but the question to you is: what will you do about the sector so that we do not lose highly qualified specialists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u233	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iankov! The Ministry of Energy has made serious efforts to resolve this case. A series of meetings with CEZ were held, including at the highest level with the management of the company, with an insistence and an appeal to CEZ to make maximum efforts to save the TPP. But as you well know, we are talking here about a wholly private company in which the State has virtually no involvement and could not, with any mechanism, control the processes in this company in terms of making certain management decisions. To recall, TPP Varna was privatized at the end of 2006 and in the privatisation contract for the buyer CEZ with regard to these obligations related to compliance with environmental legislation, it is intended to carry out all the actions that depend upon it in order to bring its activities into line with Directive 2001/80 of the European Union for large combustion plants by the end of 2014. However, the failure to comply with this obligation lacks the relevant penalty clause in this privatisation contract. It is a fact that this, so to say, non-profit deal has happened and has gone through coordination with the then Ministry of Economy and Energy of the country, but we should also mention that since there is no sanction in this privatisation agreement for failure to comply with this obligation, the buyer CEZ has practically fulfilled its commitments to the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, since the plant has been available for the last seven years for the energy system, there has been no major equipment dismantled, nor has it been sold out. The personnel required for operation are also maintained and each year is excluded by one non-compliance with the environmental standards energy block. Only the first three units installed which were authorised by the European Commission in 2009 to use an additional derogation with a work limit of not more than 700 hours per year until 2015. Thus, with the end of 2014, the full suspension of the TPP of Varna was achieved, accompanied by a reduction of the corresponding number of service staff. Currently, at TPP, Varna is still working, as you rightly noted, 85 people for maintenance of block number four to six and ready for possible start-up in case of emergency need. What has the Bulgarian government done in the last two months? I must point out that the Bulgarian government has made its best efforts to ensure the continued operation of the plant, as you know that the TPP is included in the critical infrastructure of the country and is extremely important for our energy structure and security. On this occasion, we had active communication with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Šefčovič. We made an official letter requesting that the state of the TPP be examined and a derogation be given with regard to the work of the VI block and the insurance company. We have received a reply from the European Commission, but unfortunately it says that there is no reason to compromise at this time with environmental legislation and the blocks. In any case, the power plant must be stopped when it does not comply with environmental legislation. However, attention was paid in case a critical situation came to our letter, as we mentioned that the TPP is in the critical infrastructure of the country and it is extremely important for us to have it work in the letter: in case such a critical situation occurs and we turn to the Commission again, they tend to reconsider their decision. These are briefly the actions we have taken. We continue to negotiate actively with the management of the CEZ and to consider looking for any compromises in relation to the plant, as we realize how important it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u235	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, you didn't really answer the question as I asked it. I expected you to say in your reply what happens as continuity in your work with a working group between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and CEZ as the owner of TPP Varna. Perhaps in the back, you will use the opportunity to say do you predict, or just the meetings you make with the CEZ management, you think that's enough? In fact, in the first hundred days of this government's governance for the sector for which you are responsible, we will also have to record the suspension of the power plant as also excluded from the energy system and as a result of unemployed highly qualified energy energy energyists. My question to you is exactly in terms of people. The people, Madam Minister! Those who have experience and professionalism can be useful! The people who are currently on the labour market and tomorrow will be unemployed and without compensation from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u237	Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the line with the backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yankov, I am no less concerned with you for the people, and I really believe that they are the most important ones in this case. It is important, of course, and the plant, because, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, it is included in the critical infrastructure of the country. But, unfortunately, as my answer made it clear, for people, someone didn't think when the company was privatized. This is the end of 2006. I don't know if it's random or not, but the privatisation contract lacks a sanctioning clause in case the buyer honestly fulfills his commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u239	What are you doing right now?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u240	We, Mr. Yankov, did this. As I mentioned, this is an entirely private company. But since we are talking about people and a very important element of the country's energy structure, we have made a joint task force with CEZ. Colleagues from the Ministry of Energy and from the Bulgarian Energy Holding work together with colleagues from CEZ, as we were prepared if the European Commission's response was positive, to start a coal delivery procedure immediately, so the plant would start working. The answer is negative because the owner of the plant has not fulfilled his commitments. It is negative because environmental legislation has not been complied with. Mr. Iankov, we've discussed options with our colleagues at CEZ. There are several options. Not only do we gather and see, but we are also talking about concrete proposals of theirs. There are two options that have been discussed and which CEZ proposes. One option is to create a joint Czech-Bulgarian company to manage the plant in some way. The second option is to sell the plant to us. At present, we cannot make such a decision. We're waiting. We need to analyze the situation. You know that such decisions are not easy to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u241	What do we tell people to look for jobs?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u242	Mr. Iankov, I already told you about people should have been thought of in 2006. We think about people and that's why we do all this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u243	You're in power!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u244	Well, you were in power until a year ago, actually until two months ago, but that didn't change anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u245	Mr. Iankov, please limit the calls from the room. Thank you, Madam Secretary. There is also a second question for you from the MP Desislav Chukolov, but he has requested a postponement. With this the questions to you are exhausted and your chamber participation for today ends, for which we thank you. We move on to questions and questions to the Minister of Health Dr. Moskov. But I don't see him in the gym. I'm calling a 15-minute recess. [[In plenary goes Minister Petar Moskov.]] I'm taking the break. We're continuing in active mode. Dr. Moskov is already here. We move on to a series of questions and questions. We begin by asking the National Representative Georgi Nedkov Kyuchukov about treatment of patients in the oncological and haematological clinics of the Republic of Bulgaria in the state of outpatient. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov. You have three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u246	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I will fit in less minutes, as I will try to present my question in a way that also colleagues who are not medics understand it. In the last 20 years, biotechnologies have been widely introduced into good manufacturing practice, which have allowed the creation of the so-called "needed molecules" of products that only attack malignant cells in patients with haematological and oncological diseases. In this regard, given the strong increase in the security of patients in chemotherapy schemes, these schemes have been taken to the fore in healthcare, i.e. in hospital care or in hospital care with minimal or no hospital stay. The "outpatient" system represents the following. The patient is admitted in the morning to the relevant haematological or oncological establishment, all necessary tests are carried out, I repeat all studies, infusions or corresponding schemes. He's doing a couple of hours of surveillance, and he's free to sleep in his house at night. It saves a few things. First, an unnecessary hospital stay. Secondly, the work of medical personnel who are unnecessary for the evening. Third, the stress of the patient himself. Fourth, the risk of intra-hospital infections, given that these patients are particularly susceptible to intra-hospital infections due to a breakdown of their immune system. This is also laid down in the standards of oncology and haematology signed by a former Minister of Health and published in the Official Journal. Unfortunately, the contract of the Health Insurance Fund speaks only of hospitalization, although according to the lawyers the interpretation of hospitalization does not mean a sleepover in the hospital. I am aware, Mr. Minister, that you do not define the rules of action of the Cashier, but you as guarantor sign the National Framework Treaty to comply with these rules. What are your views and what will you take to eliminate this wicked practice?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u247	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have five minutes to answer the question of the MP Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u248	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kuchukov, in response to your request for treatment of patients in the condition of the Outpatient, I will say the following. I fully support your vision of developing oncological and haematological assistance in carrying out activities that do not require prolonged hospital stay. I would like to make some clarification on the concept of a day-to-day stationary. In Regulation No 30 of 15 July, 2010 for validating the medical standard, which you quoted "Medician Oncology" does not exist. But there are requirements for daily treatment. It's a gap. In Regulation No 8 of 23 March 2009 establishing a medical standard, the notion of a day-to-day stationary exists, despite the lack of a legal definition in the Medical Institutions Act. 2010. This concept has a historical character. It acquires citizenship, which is why it is not identified by society with the new forms of similar clinical behaviour which are introduced by regulations which validate the basic package of hospital care that the NHIF pays. This is Decree No 40 of the basic package of health activities guaranteed by the NHIF. In 2012 it introduced the concept of a clinical procedure, which should replace the concept of a day-to-day stationary, which has become obsolete in our legal peace. I quote Ordinance No 40: The Clinic procedure is a system of requirements and instructions for carrying out repeated uniform medical activities where the appointed treatment scheme and the patient's condition do not require a stay at the same medical facility for longer than 12 hours. This is written in the concept of a clinical procedure. For patients with all cancers, three clinical procedures have been established: systemic drug treatment, dispensary monitoring and therapeutic response monitoring in patients receiving home treatment with the aim of oral anti-tumor or oral chemotherapy. At the same time, however, there are also clinical pathways for hospital oncology and oncohematological diseases that provide for longer hospital stay, as there are more severe cases that require active observation and treatment in hospital conditions. We should also not forget the fact that oncology and oncohematological assistance are not developed everywhere and most patients are treated not in their birthplaces, not in the places where they live. The lack of the possibility of hospital treatment on a clinical path for these people is impossible. It is related to travel, hotel and other expenses. Therefore, the introduction of only and only daily steady-state treatment is not appropriate from my point of view due to the circumstances. In parallel with the defined clinical procedures in Regulation No 40, medical standards introduce requirements for the structures of medical oncology and clinical haematological Thus, the process of daily steady-state treatment is virtually subject to the requirements of the structure that performs it. Another point is that requirements need to be developed, especially with regard to quality of life assurance, psychosocial support for the sick and their loved ones. The fact is that the basis of the medical institutions that carry out this kind of medical activity needs quality change, humanization. I accept your claim that there is an increase in the number of cancer beds from 1217 in 2013 compared to 1103 in 2012, as well as oncology treatment facilities. However, this finding should not be made isolated from cancer and mortality data. I'm going to quote you on the new findings that are indicative. In 2013, the newly discovered malignancy cases increased catastrophically to 461.9 per 100 thousand, compared to 432 per 100 thousand. in 2012. In absolute value 555 more people, at 31,000. 558 in 2012. I am reporting these data for these two years, unfortunately, this is a lasting trend that marks drastic growth. The things we are discussing together with you and in the Health Commission are aimed at responding adequately. Regarding your question: what would I do as guarantor of the National Framework Treaty? Now is the time to implement a large-scale change with regard to the instruments of the Minister of Health "Regulation No 40 and the medical standards. For me, the issue of people with cancer needs a radical change in philosophy, such as providing both quality and humane treatment. This is one of the objectives that we have set in the concept of the majority for health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u249	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Mr. Kuchukov, you can focus your inquiry in the form of two specific questions to Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we actually said the same thing, but we made different conclusions in it. Basically, what you said about both frequency and humanity, I absolutely agree with him. However, I cannot agree with your recommendation to use medical procedures. The procedure is only procedure, it involves one infusion and nothing more. The so-called daily stationary includes the full range of studies - PET scanner, resonance scanner, scanner, laboratory tests. They cannot be covered, are not covered by the appropriate procedure. If these patients go by procedure, that means they'll just go, they'll get a system and they'll go away, which will definitely worsen the quality of treatment. On the other hand, I also agree, but I mean that there are people from different places who can't use a daily stationary. I mean, 30-40% of people can and want to use it. I think this needs to be changed, and the last one seems most foolish to me, the motive of the Cassata, that this was not recorded in the Law. Well, there's no record in the Law, and that every lab or radiologist should write his own name and sign it, but they sanction it. Some things you can't, some things you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u251	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, you have an opportunity to answer. You don't want to. Thank you to the MP Mr. Kuchukov. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Moskov. Question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev concerning a restriction on exports of medicinal products. Here you are, Mr. Trenchev, for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u252	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 18 amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine in connection with the so-called "parallel export of medicinal products" have been published since 2014. The new Chapter 9b introduced restrictions on the opportunities for parallel trade with arguments for preventing shortage of medicines on the Bulgarian market. The adopted law was brought back by the President for a new discussion with arguments for violating the Constitution and European Union law. However, the veto was overcome by the National Assembly. Some of the provisions were then challenged before the Constitutional Court. At the beginning of 2014, the European Commission also initiated a procedure against Bulgaria in relation to the legal changes taken, limiting the rules on parallel exports of medicinal products. Correctness requires me to say that in January 2015, the Constitutional Court declared as unconstitutional art.217c of the Law as contrary to art. 19th para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. However, I did not withdraw my question because other provisions continue to raise a number of questions. By its decision, the Constitutional Court rightly declared the anti-constitutional provisions under attack as violating the free economic initiative. Following the revocation of the right of refusal of the Executive Director in the regulatory framework, the requirement remains for wholesalers to notify the Drug Executive Agency of each specific case of export. However, in the absence of the possibility of refusal, the notified scheme thus regulated shall remain meaningless. It only strengthens the bureaucratic burden on wholesalers by entrusting them with an administrative obligation which is disproportionate to the possible positive effects of it and without being able to guarantee the achievement of the otherwise legitimate objective of preventing shortage of medicines on the Bulgarian market. It unjustifiedly puts the entities entitled to export to the wholesalers to whom the notification regime applies, on the one hand, and the manufacturers of medicines not subject to the requirement to provide an export notification on the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u253	Mr. Trenchev, your time is up. Please complete the sentence and ask a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u254	We so rarely enjoy the presence of the health minister, just a second. In the light of the foregoing, I would like to ask: what is the position of the new management of the Ministry of Health on the problems raised? Do you intend to initiate legislative changes in the regime for the export of medicinal products and if you are What time do you expect this to happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u255	Thank you to the MP Mr. Trenchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u256	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Trenchev, you rarely ask me, so you rarely see me. Dear Mr. Trenchev, in connection with your questioning, which the Ministry requested on 4 December "by procedure" was asked before the decision of the Constitutional Court, which does not mean that its adequacy is not really high at the moment. The competent Bulgarian institutions will implement the recommendations of the European Commission in order to remove restrictive measures in the parallel investment of medicinal products in Bulgaria. As required by the Commission, the Ministry of Health will prepare regulatory amendments to Chapter 9b. The draft amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products will be notified in advance to the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a procedure for preventing information in the field of technical standards, regulations and rules on information society services. Outside this technical answer, let's say that parallel exports exist. Parallel exports is a legitimate practice, but it must be really controlled by the state here I see Dr. Raynov, who was the author of these texts. Here's the situation. From the point of view of price policy at the lowest possible price at which medicines are registered in Bulgaria compared to the surrounding countries, our country becomes a suitable, good destination for the implementation of this parallel export, good base. In the changes we are preparing, we will comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, but we will look for the guarantee that there will be no deficit of medicines most frequently not occurring in the pharmacies network. This is related, of course, to the very different mode and activity of control in pharmacies. However, in general, apart from the fact that we will comply with the directive and the Constitutional Court's Decision, we must also work from the point of view of ensuring that Bulgarian citizens will have access to medicines that are registered for sale in Bulgaria in the first place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u257	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Trenchev, you're refusing a line. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev on the application of the bans, the restrictions on smoking introduced by the Health Act. You're welcome to present your question, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u258	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I asked my question more than two months ago Of course, it is a question about policies, but it is very adequate at the moment. Asking is related to our reforming request to make changes and enforce compliance with laws and rules. You, Mr. Minister, have imposed a high reform rate in the Ministry of Health with your request for the introduction of an electronic health card, a reform in I am sure that adequate measures will be proposed and put in place to address these problems. But they wouldn't change anything if they didn't comply with the rules and laws they were regulated with after they were introduced. My question concerns Law and Ordinance, which have already been voted and adopted in Parliament, but are not respected and violated on a daily basis. This Law is not just any law, but the Health Act and, in particular, its part related to the ban on smoking in public places. I keep getting reports of non-compliance with this ban. So in my question, I asked a few specific questions, which I would like to give a little more information about what is being done on the control associated with this ban. Specifically, the questions are: What measures have been taken to comply with it? How many fines have been imposed on natural persons under this prohibition for the period from 1 January 2014. ▪ 1 December 2014? How many fines have been imposed on legal persons under this ban for the period 1 January 2014. " 1 December 2014 and for the period from 1 January 2014 to 1 December 2014 how many alerts have been received on telephones for this purpose in the country and how many legal or natural persons have been fined following these signals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u259	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u260	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ananiev, regarding your question regarding the application of the bans and restrictions on smoking introduced by the Health Act, we inform you as follows: The Ministry of Health through its structures, respectively the 28 Regional Health Inspections (RZI), shall carry out state health control to comply with the health requirements laid down by law for public bodies, products, goods and activities relevant for human health and the factors for the living environment, as set out in art. 11 of the Health Act. In accordance with the Health Act.............................................................................................. 2, p. Art. 3 and Art. 29, the Ministry of Health is committed to carrying out preventive measures to prevent health risk factors and is also responsible for conducting health policies. The policy regarding the restriction of smoking in the Republic of Bulgaria is implemented through the implementation of activities under national programme and the implementation of state health control. In 2013 by Decision No 538 of 12 September 2013, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases with Horizon 2020. The Programme aims to reduce the level for chronic Infectious Diseases, the most common risk factors: behavioral, biological and psychosocial, by reducing the prevalence of smoking, alcohol abuse, improving nutrition and increasing physical activity. The programme in the part of the European Union is based on Recommendation 2003/54 of the European Union on the prevention of smoking and on initiatives to improve tobacco control with the European Tobacco Control Strategy of the World Health Organisation and the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria by the Law on the ratification of the Framework Convention. It has been in force for the country since 5 February 2006. It contains a complex of measures in different fields of social, economic, legislative, the purpose of which is to limit smoking. The Ministry collects weekly and summarizes the incoming information from the regional health inspections for health control carried out in the country on compliance with the requirements of the Health Act on the restriction of smoking in closed public places and in some open public places. In order to control the ban on smoking in closed public places and in some open public places, a total of 184 thousand were carried out for the period from 1 January 2014 to 4 December 2014 from the 28 regional health inspections in the country. 528 checks per day and night, 182 thousand. 791 sites, on business and weekends. 363 prescriptions were issued, 784 infringement orders were issued and 679 penal decrees were issued at a total value of 394 thousand. £800. The information received shall also contain details of persons subject to fines and property penalties under the Health Act. For the period from 1 January 2014 to 4 December 2014, natural persons are subject to 653 infringement acts and 590 penal decrees have been issued. For legal persons, including sole traders, 236 infringement orders have been issued and 95 criminal orders have been issued. During the above period, 1238 phone signals were received in the country for violation of the smoking ban. 1533 inspections have been carried out at 1238 sites, each one of the sites for which an alert has been received. There are 370 acts of administrative infringement found, of which 321 of natural persons, 49 of legal persons, including sole traders. 242 penal decrees were issued, of which 221 were issued to natural persons, and 21 were issued to legal persons, including sole traders, to a total of 129 thousand. 300 leva. Despite the significant volume of control activity carried out, experience over the past two and a half years as from 1 June 2012, following the change of the Health Act and the introduction of the ban on closed places shows a pressing need to refine some of the texts of the Law with a view to achieving a higher efficiency of the controls carried out and a higher level of protection of public health. At the same time, for the entire period of implementation of the Health Act in this area, there are numerous complaints and signals in the Ministry of Health, which report that the ban on smoking in closed public places is systematically violated. All alerts received by citizens by electronic means and by post shall be forwarded by the Ministry of Health to the relevant regional health inspection by order to take adequate and effective measures to stop the infringements. In many cases, however, several signals of ineffective control and continued smoking have been reported for the same object. The control authorities also face a number of practical difficulties in implementing the Health Act, including the inability to hold the owners, managers and other officials responsible at the premises where tobacco smoking is established by natural persons. The law does not provide for the liability of the managers and other officials at the site concerned; the inability to suspend the activity of an establishment in cases of the detection of systemic infringements imposing the highest possible fines on one infringement from 5 to 10 thousand. lv.; lack of the possibility for the health inspector to require personal documents from individuals, which requires a permanent need for the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior; lack of a clear definition of a closed public place. A Essential Part of the Problems of Law Enforcement [[the President signals that time has run out]] and, in particular, those cited above are directly linked to the lack of certain regulatory requirements in the current Health Act, which need to be taken the necessary action to improve and improve legislation. The ministry will continue to pursue a principled and consistent policy in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u261	Mr. Minister, thank you for your quick response. After the possibility of two questions by the MP Mr. Ananiev, you also have the opportunity to answer, I hope, with calmer articulation, because I see that the stenographers are also struggling. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u262	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you confirm that, in fact, at the moment, there is not enough to implement this ban and that the Ministry will prepare amendments to actually improve the control of this ban and implementation. I wanted to ask you because it was submitted to me as a signal that there is an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Association of Bulgaria without smoke, which is for cooperation in the checks in this ban. It turns out that the last few months this agreement, which was signed between the Association and the Ministry, has not been respected. I wonder why that is and can you tell me? Also, is the number of inspectors who do these checks really adequate? You said 28 regional health inspections. I will give you an example of Burgas, where we know how many hotels and resorts there is a large city in general, there are only six people. That means three teams of two who should follow all these bans. Agree with me that this is not adequate to check Burgas and all the areas around it - Sunny Beach, Nessebar, the big resorts, which especially in summer are full of restaurants, with tourists and so on. You mentioned, I agree with the fact that it is not clear in the Law what is discovered and what is indoor room. This has to be explained. I think you should think about something else. [[Signature by the President that time has run out]] You should also seek assistance from other agencies, such as the Food Agency and the Labour Inspection. You can implement this ban together. I hope you will answer the accompanying questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u263	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the questions within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ananiev, your findings are, more or less, accurate. In terms of the number of teams and control bodies: this is the number of regional health inspections. If this is Parliament's priority, I hope that you and Parliament will lobby for a different budget of the Ministry of Health for next year, so that we can fill these structures with additional people because they are loaded not only with this, but also with many more public health protection things. Not to mention that they are charged with additional control over the performers of healing activities, that is, these are indeed very busy people who have done all this honorable work during that time. What I don't agree with is you saying that no quality work has been done. It can always be improved, so we can think together. About cooperation with non-governmental organisations. We are always open to cooperation with each of the non-governmental organizations, we have no favorites among them. We firmly believe that this is a good approach. On the other hand, when one of these NGOs over the past week presented us with a request for us to finance.. no matter how much money, the amount of money for such a hot phone, to which people who dealt with the problem like you can report irregularities, it turned out that this is a phone based in the Ministry of Health and it is answered by employees who receive a salary. That is, things need to be precise enough there too and be in the name of the common goal of really reducing harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u265	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. MP, you have an opportunity to address the Minister's response. Please, you have in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I would like to clarify that this agreement, which we are talking about, with the Ministry and the Association of Bulgaria without smoke, is explicitly stated there that the telephone line is maintained by the Ministry of Health, which you mentioned. I hope that you will partner with such NGOs and especially with those with whom the Ministry already has a signed cooperation agreement. I hope, and I will rely on you, to take an initiative and this becomes one of your priorities.. one of the reforms for which we in the Reformation bloc are actually fighting because they are related to the whole Concept of respect for the rules. Are we following the rules or not following them? What kind of example are we actually setting for the younger ones? We give an example that it is normal not to follow the rules. Then these people, growing up in this way and seeing that the rules are not followed, it is quite normal for such a small violation to lead to greater and greater. This is how we impose a model in society that is not acceptable to me personally. I think that solving this problem is an important step and all the other reforms that you have taken depend on solving this step. Because every reform is about legislation, and then, if we don't follow it, why are we only doing reforms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u267	Thank you to the MP Nastimir Ananiev. We move on to a question from the National Representative Valentin Lyubenov Pavlov concerning the criminal offence against doctors and medical professionals working in the field of emergency medical care by people who do not respect the medical profession. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u268	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, honourable gentlemen, Members of the House! My question is related to the abuse and dealing with doctors in both emergency centres and doctors working in emergency services throughout the country. Many colleagues as a result of the stress experienced are on the verge of continuing to work in emergency care or at all in the field of health care. This problem leads to a huge loss for Bulgarian healthcare for both patients and those working in the emergency centers due to the leaving of qualified staff. Self - dealing with medical professionals is one of the reasons for reducing the number of people who work as doctors, nurses and support staff in various emergency services units. The Law on the Supplement to the Criminal Code governs protection in the event of an attack on medical persons. Under this law, all health workers receive a better degree of protection. If the provisions of this law are applied with all their strength, I think this will make every citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, especially those of Roma origin, think about when they reach out to those who save their lives. In this order of thought is also my question: are there penalties within the meaning of this Law for people who have used violence against medical persons and, if there is, do you have any information on their number and type of penalties imposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u269	Thanks for asking. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u270	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pavlov, in relation to the question presented by you concerning the criminal offences against doctors and medical professionals working in the field of emergency medical care by people who do not respect the medical profession, I state the following. According to information from the Emergency Medical Centers, the incidents of aggression over medical teams from Emergency Aid 2013 were 145 pieces in 2014. "Twenty-two hundred and twenty-seven. Medical professionals who have been injured have not in all cases filed complaints with the police department. Despite a change in the Penal Code entered into force on 9 July 2013, there has been an increase in incidents in the last year. From the moment of acceptance of the change in art. 131, para. 2 of the Penal Code incriminating the injuring of bodily injury to a medical professional in or on the occasion of the performance of his or her office or functions under art. 131, para. 2 sentences are as follows: there are four effective sentences - one with a fine of 1000 BGN, one imprisonment for six months, one imprisonment for one year and the fourth is imprisonment for three months. There's a three-year probation with a probationary term of four years. Three pre-trial proceedings and one case ended without a conviction due to lack of sufficient evidence. According to data from the Ministry of Interior, the signals submitted to them for the period 2010-2014 were 115 for violations of medical teams during the performance of their duties and 66 pre-trial proceedings were formed. Apart from the pre-trial proceedings, 23 administrative penalties have been imposed relating to violations against medical teams. The difference between CSM and Ministry of Interior information is due to the fact that verbal attacks by patients, as well as attacks without physical injury, teams do not seek assistance from the Ministry of Interior authorities and these attacks do not register with the Ministry of Interior. At the CSM, every incident with the Centre's team is registered. Outside the statistics that you are asking about in your question, we are in the process of making an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Prosecutor's Office on the part of the active public position of the MPs and on the part of the government's actions, and on the basis of clear arrangements that we have with the Prosecutor's Office, we are in the process of drafting an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Prosecutor's Office really for direct, rapid, horizontal links and notifications, so that these disgusting Since the start of the offensive that we have all undertaken to stop this, the institutions have been working well. In the last two cases since the end of last year, you have seen clearly how within 48 hours the police, the prosecution and the head of the CSM stood up at a press conference and announced the result of the good work. Thus, it must be clear that there is a country that protects its honest employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u271	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Pavlov, come in for a line. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Pavlov.]] You're giving her up. We continue with the next question, which is from the National Representative Dimitar Angelov Gorov regarding the duties of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov Here you are, Mr. Gorov, to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u272	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is related to the state of the hunting hospital and dictated by the fact that shortly after New Year's Eve it was found that the hospital was in extremely difficult financial condition. By letter dated 16 December 2014, the Commission informed Germany that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The hospital has been warned that if they do not pay the already agreed payment agreement regarding liabilities to the company, their gas will be cut off. On January 3.. shortly after the New Year, the mayor of the municipality realized that the hospital had already had this moment and practically it had stopped gas supply. On 5 January the President of the Municipal Council and the Director of the Hospital are gathered at the moment, who is the prosecutor Dr. Minkova, in order to seek any solution from this situation, and the municipality is committed to paying the contribution, which amounts to a little over 51 thousand. lv. Nevertheless, unpleasant situations are developing as the problem is clearly used by MPs from GERB for political dividends. In an interview at Lovech, the colleague Marinova, instead of looking for a solution, presented to the public the problem that the mayor almost ordered after it was not paid by the hospital to stop the gas, which is to put it lightly. I would just like to point out that this hospital, in addition to serving the residents of Lovech Municipality, also serves the entire Lovech area. Each of us, it doesn't matter which party it is from, whether from GERB, whether from BSP, he or his parents are being treated in this hospital. For this reason, it is my question to you: have you been informed in time and what actions have you taken in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u273	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u274	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gorov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the occasion of the question received by the Ministry of Health concerning the suspension of the gas supply of the Hospital "Prof. Paraskev Stoyanov. In Lovech, I inform you of the following. This is one of the 26 hospitals with public participation. The State contribution amounts to 68,96 per cent of the capital of the Commercial Company and the State represented by the Minister of Health is a shareholder, along with eight other shareholders municipalities. To the specific question: whether I was aware of the emergency situation, the answer is to answer from the letter of the procurist of the medical establishment Dr. Minkova, who was at the Ministry of Health on 5 January 2015. It states that because of the hospital's stated obligations to the supplier company, of 51 thousand. BGN 489 was stopped the gas supply, respectively the heating of the hospital. That is, the notification of the crisis situation has been made post-factum. Since the State, respectively, the Ministry of Health, cannot repay obligations to medical institutions was urgently sought and found an adequate solution to the problem by paying an advance matching subsidy for medical activities under the contract with the Ministry of Health. The heating was restored and the crisis situation contained. In fact, whether or not I am aware of the emergency situation is not so important, it is more important that the elected management body, namely the Board of Directors and the Executive Director do their job well, and part of the job is to make proper and timely management decisions, in accordance with the regulations and the management contract. A good management decision is not to allow overdue debts or prioritize late payments in such a way that such crisis situations are not allowed. This wasn't done at the hospital. There are no known reasons why the current executive director deposited his resignation in early November 2014 and was appointed a prosecutor until the General Assembly was held and the election of a new executive director, but it is obvious that there is a management vacuum in the medical establishment that is at the root of a deterioration of the financial situation. There will be consultations with the other shareholders, mainly the Municipal Council in Lovech, about the appointment of the General Assembly and the appointment of candidates to step up with the management of the hospital after we proceed to the convening of the General Assembly. At present, medical institutions are in the process of closing the financial year 2014. This is written then, and verification and certification of the annual financial results. The official information available to us at 9 months of 2014 is that the MHAL Prof. Paraskev Stoyanov is an accounting loss of 583 thousand. lv. In conclusion, I do not believe that the problems of the medical establishment have ended or will end with the critical situation of stopping the heating in early January. I hope that an analysis of the current state will be carried out and that the weaknesses will be removed. The Ministry as the main shareholder of this company will do what is necessary. The first part of the comment I'm really not going into debate because I don't think that in the hospital where your children or someone else's children are being treated, it's important which political power she's done. Just to say the following, for sure, when I personally contacted the representative of the gas supplier company, my question is that scary is this obligation of 50 thousand. BGN that stops in the middle of winter gas? I was told that after contact with the mayor of the municipality and announced the fact that he had an obligation of 50 thousand. BGN, the answer was: "Well, having obligations and not being paid, stopping! " - I neither justify nor blame anyone. I say this from a point of view of the factual truth I have heard with my ears from the representative of the gas company.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u275	Minister, your time has come. In the back, you can develop your thesis. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u276	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I'll start back and forth, like you. I have a letter from this same executive, which is signed and sealed by Mr. Vladimir Iliev, who stated in a straight text that such an answer by Mr. Kazandzhiev has never followed in any conversation between them. Moreover, there is another correspondence between the municipality and the hospital, stating the desire of the 51,000. lv. to be provided as an interest-free credit to the hospital in order to solve this problem. It is for this reason that I see that either you have been misled or there is some other situation. I don't think you'd be the kind of guy to throw his words in that direction, but I'm still saying I have a letter from the CEO here. [[shows the letter]] who categorically states that such a thing did not happen. As for the future of the hunting hospital, it is true that there is a management vacuum, it is a fact. However, the fact is that there is a problem that is related to the management of the hospital's property and the way it functions. If the hunting hospital was the only hospital in Bulgaria with obligations, I would accept that this guide was mistaken, that there is some problem in Lovech region that needs to be solved, but it is obvious that this is not the case. The duties of the hospitals in Bulgaria are somewhere around 500 million, which practically shows that there is another problem is not personal management. For this reason, I suggest several options for exiting this situation: either the state as majority owner becomes 100%, the owner of the company's capital, or the state as majority owner to provide its shares to the Lovek Municipality to enter the management of the hunting hospital, but this powerlessness that we have from different owners at the moment leads only to tensions between the individual owners and the non-solving of the problems and the transfer of responsibility to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u277	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u278	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gorov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try so I can say it as softly as possible. There are two hypotheses. One hypothesis is that something happened because it happened and it had to happen, a little Bible explanation. The other is that from the point of view of the fact that after 6-8 months of local elections, it is possible, with the power of your administrative and political levers, to cause a crisis in the middle of winter, and then to emerge as a savior from the crisis. Which of these two hypotheses is more true? I wouldn't want to talk right now. I know what I'm saying, however, regardless of the document you have, because I've heard certain things with my ears. Otherwise, the basic solution to the problem is important. Very soon, as early as this month, the Ministry's team together with the Ministry of Finance is currently working on a complex solution to the problem of hospital obligations and in general the owner's commitment to the infrastructure of the institution concerned. Thank you for putting this up, because it's out of the question who's going to win the local elections in Lovech and it's the important thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u279	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with the next question to you by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev for the second time today about the future of state sanatoriums. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u280	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On 26 November 2014, the Council of Ministers approved amendments and additions to the concept of restructuring the hospital care system. One of the highlights you have proposed is the optimization of beds in hospitals for active treatment and their transfer to long-term treatment structures in certain areas of medicine. A small part of the ideas set out in the updated Concept are bold, reforming and deserve support. At the same time, they raise some questions that I would like to get your answer to. Some of these issues concern the status and future of active rehabilitation hospitals, which are, in legal form, state-owned companies. In the capital of these companies are all so-called "sanatorial and healing institutions', or for a short period of time state sanatoriums. In 2000, in accordance with the Health Services Act, the existing public sanatorial and health care establishments were converted into sole commercial companies with state property whose principal is Your Grace, the Minister of Health. It is widely known that these are assets that are located in areas with natural resources with healing and recovery properties, making them particularly interesting from an investment point of view. It is no secret that not a small part of the property has a stated investor interest. At the same time, the state in the face of the Ministry of Health over the years has repeatedly stated that it does not have the necessary financial resources to maintain and modernise the sanatoriums, which is why many of the properties are in poor material and state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll go straight to the questions. The questions I have for you are: Do you have any information on what happened to the property transferred to the municipalities and will you order a check on the actions of the previous team regarding the disposal of assets included in the capital of the specialized hospitals for rehabilitation? As exercising the rights of the State, will you assign an analysis of the state of these companies? What is the position of the team of the Ministry of Health on the status and future of the sanatoriums? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u282	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ananiev! Regarding the question received, I will inform you of the following. The Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the concept for the restructuring of hospital aid on 26 November 2014. It is true that one of the highlights in it is the stated will to restructuring the beds for active treatment in the hospital, state hospitals and establishment of structures for carrying out long-term treatment. It is about the development of long-term treatment after the period of active hospital treatment for people who need longer medical care in a hospital. In this case, it is not a case of rehabilitation, which is carried out in specialized rehabilitation hospitals, part of which are state-owned hospitals where the Minister manages the rights of the State in capital. A distinction should be made between continued treatment and rehabilitation, which does not cancel the meaning of your question. In general, treatment and treatment centres and clinics carry out activities to continue the treatment of patients in whom the acute phase of the disease has taken place in another ward or clinic or other hospital for active treatment. Some rehabilitation methods can accompany and are an element of this long-term treatment, of course. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that physical and rehabilitation medicine is carried out within all types of active treatment. It includes prevention, diagnosis and therapy, alone and in combination with pharmacological and other medical agents according to the type and phase of underlying disease and underlying diseases. So she has specifics and coverage like the rest of the medical majors. For this reason, according to the classification of Eurostat, long-term care beds and long-term treatment are classified separately from rehabilitation beds that are in the section "Others" together with the beds for the day stationary here is what we talked about with the professor. When developing the National Health Card, these circumstances will be taken into account and the needs of different types of beds will be determined, including physical and rehabilitation activities. When drawing up the mandatory card, criteria for Bulgaria for insurance will be adopted, regional and national health cards will be drawn up, i.e. they will be accompanied by analysis of the condition and need for restructuring of the beds in the health system according to the criteria laid down. This also concerns rehab beds as an element of the total number of hospital beds, as well as those for long-term treatment. As regards the specific measures in relation to rehabilitation institutions in the state structure. The management examined on 4 February 2015 the issue of future measures by the Ministry of Health to promote opportunities by the development of balneology and rehabilitation. A decision has been made to establish a working group with the participation of leading specialists, examining international experience and implementing measures for future development. This group's proposals will be taken into consideration in the preparation of the National Health Card, as well as in relation to specific future investment intentions of specialised hospitals. With regard to the management transactions carried out by the previous government with properties, it was found that this was a transfer to the property of Velingrad Municipality of a water supply facility, part of a heat pipeline of Chepino with pumping station, Decision No 487 of 10 July 2014 of the Council of Ministers. It is a part of a facility that does not serve the branch of the specialized hospitals for rehabilitation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I've got a lot of reading to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u283	You can then use the back to develop your response, and Mr. Ananiev will now give you a reason for it in the form of a replica. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u284	Thank you. I didn't finish my show, I'm sorry, the time hasn't come. As we know, all specialized rehabilitation hospitals are on the ban list under the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. However, the previous government, bypassing this ban, shortly before resigning, managed to dispose of separate properties from the capital of I think it's pretty clear what's going to happen to these properties. Thus, although without formal violation of the ban on privatisation through decapitalisation, the state could transfer the most attractive properties, leaving a hollow company and practically condemning it to bankruptcy. That is all I ask of the two issues that you have not addressed, for the sake of time, of course: do you have information on what has happened to these assets and what is the position of the team of the Ministry of Health and your personal, of course, about the status and future of the sanatoriums? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u285	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you can also develop your answer in it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u286	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen! The first Decision No 487 that we talked about, once again I say, concerns part of a facility that does not serve the subsidiary of the Rehabilitation Centre in Velingrad and unwarranted cargo company with maintenance costs. Following an explicit request from Velingrad municipality, action was taken on its transfer to the municipality. It should be borne in mind that the file started in 2012. In the second case, by Decision No 421 of 23 June 2014, the Council of Ministers ordered the Minister of Health to reduce the capital of that State-owned company by disinfecting shares corresponding to the value of the property right located in the village of Shipkovo, Troyan municipality. By the same decision, the properties which were transferred free of charge to the Municipality of Troyan after the withdrawal of capital and transformed into private state property. The capital reduction procedures were carried out in strict compliance with the statutory requirements and the properties were non-operative assets of the medical establishment and the company did not have the means to maintain them. The municipalities have delegated a request for free acquisition, subject to a decision of the relevant municipal council. The projects are agreed with the other ministers, as well as the Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, as required by art. 32, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. The questions related to the follow-up should be addressed to the current owners, namely the municipalities. To make it clear what we are doing, there are two processes at the moment. One process is the inventory of everything it has as a power for balneotherapy and rehabilitation our country. The government's belief is that such a direction of Bulgaria is not just as a resort, but as medical tourism should be made after we have structured our house as a priority at European level, because it is one of the specifics at our disposal for the other European countries. This process is underway. The final report will be seen at the end of the month by the Ministry's management. The second thing the Ministry has done is that our International Department is currently in contact with each of the Member States of the European Union and geographically surrounding countries in order to examine the provisions, opportunities and requirements for citizens of these countries financed by their social and health funds to reside in Bulgaria in terms of the quality and type of such rehabilitation, balneo- and caloric treatment that they can receive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u287	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u288	One sentence. This has nothing to do with Mr. Ananiev's question. In the last month, a huge part of the activities of all sorts of lobbyists, I say this to everyone, are related not to hospitals, clinics and patients, but what is going on with the CBI (Specialized Hospitals for Rehabilitation). This S.B.I. will stay active, be structured as a state...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u289	That's a second sentence. Please develop and complete it. Thank you for understanding. We're moving on to the final question for you today. He is from the MP Ms. Cornelia Petrova Ninova on the quality of drinking water in Blagoevgrad. It's a question for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u290	Yes, it is to the Minister of Health, it is within his competence, but it is not for Blagoevgrad, but for Botevgrad. There's been a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u291	It says Blagoevgrad here, but we assume it's Botevgrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u292	I hope the Minister got the right question, because we're going to talk about Botevgrad. This is a municipality in my electoral district. Mr. Minister, I ask you: can you drink the water that flows from the taps in Botevgrad? Why? What are the reasons I asked you? Firstly, I have been repeatedly referred to by the residents of Botevgrad municipality, and I have seen with my own eyes that the quality of water flowing from the taps does not correspond to the notions of drinking water. But let's just say that this is a subjective impression, maybe we're wrong, me and the people who approached me. However, I have documents and expertise that bother me. That's why I'm asking you on my behalf and on behalf of these people. The documents are: complaint from the "Irrigation systems" "Sofia branch," which is 100% state company, colleagues, to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this complaint, the executive director of the Irrigation Systems (IED) addressed the chief prosecutor for violations of the legislation and said that: During the years of the dam, the links were built, so-called bypasses directly to the network of Botevgrad and water was fed to the population without measuring and absorbing. That's what a government authority says! He asks the Attorney General: "How does the submission of unclean water affect the built deviations of the water supply network on the population? "................................................................................... In relation to this complaint, an expertise has been appointed for this is more important. Here's the license of the firm that did the forensics, these are people with powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u293	Please refer to the conclusion of the matter, you have 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u294	I'm done. The report states that: "In this way organized water supply by the mayor of Botevgrad creates a risk of hygienic-epidemiology, using these water for drinking needs is a danger for the development of various infectious diseases of the population. Mr. Minister, I ask you: is that correct?! Are the people in Botevgrad threatened by this water? If I do, what will you do?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u295	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Minister, please respond. It's about Botevgrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u296	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I will only read the specific answer to the question because you know it. I respect your positions and I owe you an answer, especially on this issue, whether or not they drink quality water. However, before that, let me say that my reply would be contrary to your claim and on this basis I will also provide you with the relevant documents from the Ministry of Health's inspection. I'm reading so I don't run out of time. In 2014 there were no signals from natural and legal persons, including from "Irrigation systems" JSC Sofia, regarding poor water quality in Botevgrad. They did not enter the Ministry of Health and the Regional Health Inspectorate Sofia district. The water supply of Botevgrad with drinking water is carried out by the water supply of Bulgaria. The water supply company uses the water from the dam "Bebresch" for drinking domestic water supply of the town of Botevgrad and, if necessary, the villages of Skravena, Vratschesh and Litakovo. For the use of water at the dam "Bebresch" for drinking-bit purposes water water can be granted by the Swimming Directorate. The target is water for drinking household needs. In compliance with and in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation surface water, category A-2 may be used for drinking water after the relevant treatment and disinfection. In compliance with the above requirements for water supply of the town of Botevgrad are built and operating two water treatment plants for drinking water. One is called "Chekanitsa" module 1, there is also module 2 respectively. The water from the dam of Bebresha through the steel plumbing with F-200-426, 8,000 m long, as well as waters from the river water supply from Ceshkovitsa. On the site are built 5 quick sand filters, ozone block and tank of 6500 cubes. m. After its purification, the water is decontaminated at the outlet of a treatment plant with sodium chloride and is fed into the water supply network of Botevgrad without a square. It's east. Module 2 purifies the water from the river water grip from the Sword Valley and the river water grip from the Bucatin Dol and passes it into the water supply network of the square. The town of Botevgrad. According to § 1, t. 9 (a) The additional provisions of the Health Act, water supply facilities and water supply facilities such as water treatment plants, are public-use sites and are subject to state health control. Previously, a public register of public-use objects has been kept and maintained as required by art. 36, para. 3 of the Health Act. The Cleaning Station, module 1 and module 2, as sites of public importance, are listed in the public register of public-use sites, led by the Regional Health Inspectorate Sofia district. For 2014, the inspection carried out 4 inspections of the treatment plants where it was found that the methods used for the purification and treatment of raw water from the dam 3, para. 1 of Regulation No 12. From the microbiological control performed on the quality of raw water, water has been found to meet the requirements of category A-2 under that Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u297	Mr. Minister, I see you have a lot more, but unfortunately time is up. In the back you can further develop your answer, because I see that you have competence in terms of environment, regional development and clearly the issue is quite complicated. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u298	Mr. Minister, I don't accept your answer as correct and correct. I'll tell you why. I don't carry the red folder there. [[shows to the bank]] Because it's very bulky. There's evidence that complaints have been filed to you repeatedly. Your first claim was that no signals or complaints were issued to the Ministry of Health. Perhaps not by your side personally, since you were the minister, but before that, complaints have been filed. In a hurry, when I examined, they were released during the period of this government. I'll give them to you later. Check your records: there have been complaints! I don't know where you measured the quality of drinking water. In your answer, you say you did it at the treatment plant. The cleaning station in Botevgrad is out of order and has never worked. It hasn't been put into service. It's built and hasn't been put into operation, so what water do you measure at the treatment plant I don't know! There's no water going through there. I don't know why you're doubting the forensics that's going to the D.A.'s trial. There's a sketch in this report. Here is the treatment plant, here is Mr. Minister and colleagues, 9 illegal bypasses that experts have shown where they are. [[Shows a sketch.]] There's no quarter of East, there's no Zeline, there's no Trudovets, and so on. All of this is based on a scheme that comes from licensed experts and has been assigned in connection with a complaint to the Attorney General. This scheme describes which neighborhoods are powered by what water. It's the prosecution's job to tell us who committed the crime. I claim that this is the mayor of Botevgrad and I will not stop until this man is held responsible for poisoning the population. However, I ask you to double-check the prosecution's case while criminal liability is being sought for these outrage, is there really a danger to people's health? If there is, let's take some precautions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u299	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u300	Thank you. Ms. Ninova, if there is even the slightest doubt that the quality, chemical and bacteriological composition of the water constitutes a problem or a threat to the health of the people who use it, there is no reason why I should hide it and I would not hide it. On the contrary, in two or three other places where the authorities of the Ministry of Health have established a concentration of manganese and other substances, we are taking active measures, regardless of colour, the political affiliation of the mayor. Otherwise, in order to be correct with each other, the last sentence I had to say for 2014 from the analyses of drinking water in Botevgrad and the three villages, according to the indicators of constant and periodic monitoring, there were no deviations from the quality requirements. I don't know what the schematics you're telling me are, but I have one of the top documents, stamped, signed by the A-type control authority, namely the Regional Health Inspection. Now I'm going to give you all these things. They're duly... All chemical elements that are examined in the water color, smell, density, nitrates, chlorides, iron, manganese, specific electrical conductivity and everything else that is needed. If there's a significant gap between this, because I don't know the documents that you show where they are, but these are the state services that are loaded, I'm ready to initiate a re-check and if there's a gap, let's get the truth straight. But we have no reason to doubt the repeated checks that have been carried out, and the quality of this water is shown to be drinkable. I'll give them to you, Mrs. Ninova. [[Provides them to the MP Cornelia Ninova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u301	Thank you, Minister Moskov. With this, your participation in today's parliamentary control has ended, fulfilling your constitutional obligations. Control continues with responses from the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev. The first question he will answer is from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Dimitar Dubov on the opening of a branch of the Medical University Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u302	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, for years there has been a discussion among the noisy public about the restoration of an important activity for both the city and the region, namely the training of staff such as nurses and midwives. In this regard, in 2013 and 2014, the first and main steps were taken in the opening of a subsidiary of the Medical University of Varna, with such a profile especially due to the fact that this institution has authority among the noisy public on the basis of the successful functioning of the Medical College in the period 1950-2005, again in the structure of the Medical University of Varna. It is not to be underestimated and the fact that the healthcare staff in Shumen are mainly graduates of the Medical University in Varna. The university continues to be a territory for their postgraduate training in a number of specialties in the field of health and health care. A number of meetings were held to implement this goal between the management of Shumen Municipality and the regional governor of Shumen District, and concrete actions were also undertaken and the educational process was ensured to begin at the basis of the specialized hospital for active treatment of pneumophtsiatric diseases, while also starting the accreditation process of the future subsidiary, which ended with a positive assessment. The process reached a stage of coordination between the ministries before voting on a decree of the Council of Ministers. Our question is: at what stage has the above-mentioned procedure reached and what is the opinion, the opinion of the current management of the Ministry of Education and Science in the opening of a subsidiary of the Medical University. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov If it is positive, what time do you see the completion of this process and its vote in the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u303	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u304	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will respond briefly, as your inquiry has been a long time since the beginning of December 2014. The Ministry of Education and Science supports the project fully. We have absolutely no initiatives or ideas other than to have direct contact with the responsible persons concerned. I was in a relationship with them this morning once again. It is the Council of Ministers who will receive a proposal from the Ministry. This relates to regulated professions, so it must be very strict, after the positive assessment of the National Agency, of the NAOA, which has been received quite a long time ago, as early as September. A positive assessment of the accreditation committee. It, of course, does not necessarily result in an immediate and immediate obligation for the Minister to take the procedure for opening the branch, but in addition, I would like to answer part of your question. At the moment, however, the Ministry has not received a request from the Rector for the opening in Shumen of a subsidiary of the Medical University Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov Once it arrives, it will be dealt with immediately and appropriate action will be taken. This has been confirmed in a phone call with the Rector this morning. It hasn't been released yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u305	Thank you. Would you like to take advantage of the right to a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u306	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! In line with what you said, I just want to point out that this is a project that is supported by all the political forces represented in the city. For your information, since the Medical University's requirement to issue such a letter to you was to make a corresponding transfer of property between Shumen Municipality and the University, this morning I attended the session, for this reason and I was late, I did not arrive at work in due time to attend the voting of the Municipal Council, which decided to hand over the property as requested by the Medical University. So as soon as possible, we should expect the corresponding letter from the Medical University to come to you to begin the procedure. The opening of a school has always been the cause of every Bulgarian citizen because education is not a commodity, it is not something that can be replaced by anything. I welcome your consent in this direction and expect the National Assembly to vote soon to open a subsidiary of the Medical University in Varna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u307	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Would you like a hole, Minister? No. We are continuing with a question by the National Representative Kalina Balabanova concerning illegal activity in the collection of money for security of municipal schools in the town of Dobrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! As a Member of the National Assembly, I was informed of an illegal activity in collecting money for security of municipal schools in the town of Dobrich. This practice is binding, not voluntary, although schools are a secondary authorising officer. I was informed that the class leaders were charged with the collection of funds and not a parent-elect representative. There is no system for issuing a receipt to an income cash order at the time of payment. A list shall normally be kept by the classroom supervisor and no record or deed of donation shall be issued to each importer. To a question from municipal councillors from Ataka, concerning the above-mentioned practice, the mayor of the town of Dobrich, Mrs. Detelina Nikolova, answers that in some schools there is a contract between the school board and a licensed security firm. However, it turned out that many of the boards did not have an up-to-date registration. It also turned out that the collection of mandatory donations was carried out on the territory of kindergartens in the town of Dobrich. In this case there is an initiated petition of 700 parents who are firmly declared against the practice of collecting money for security in schools in the town of Dobrich. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what is your opinion on the practice of collecting this money from parents? Do you intend to refer to the authorities subordinate to the Ministry of Education and Science in this case and to appoint independent controls from another city? To the question I have applied, I suppose you have received the signature of 700 parents from Dobrich, who are declared against the collection of funds, copies of complaints, a copy of the mayor's reply to the town of Dobrich, as well as other documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Come in for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u310	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Balabanova, the legislation of the Ministry of Education and Science does not regulate the right of school guides and educators in schools to collect money from students and their parents. The collection of money for parental protection is not lawful because not all parents and students are members of the school board of the school concerned. As an answer to part of your question, I say that such an inspection in the municipality of Dobrich has already been carried out and has established the following: in one part of the schools the guards are organized and carried out with their own powers and resources, of the schools themselves, of their budgets and officials accordingly carry out this security. I can give you the list of these schools in writing. In another group of schools the security is carried out by a licensed company, based on a contract between the principal of the school and the company. I have a list of these schools. In a third group of schools: "Han Asparuh", "Stefan Karadzha", "Lyuben Karavelov, "Kliment Ohridski, "Dora Gabe, "Slaveykov, "Geo Milev, "Cyril and Methodius," the security is carried out by a licensed security company, on the basis of a contract between the school board and the company. A representative selected by the parents for each class shall pay the sum collected from the donation of the parents in the school board's register against a receipt issued to the income cash order. The school board translates the monthly amount agreed with the company against an invoice issued. The amount of donation contributions in the individual schools mentioned in one year is different and varies between 16 and 25 BGN. In this regard, the decision to provide security taken by the management body of the school board cannot be mandatory for each parent. There is an opportunity for a voluntary donation of security funds to form a document, act or protocol for donation, and each importer of a donation should receive a copy of the document, including a receipt of an accounting document, an income cash order for the money deposited in the school's cash register. The collected amounts of security contributions should be accounted for as revenue under the school budget and correspondingly provide for security expenditure appropriations up to the amount of the funds collected. In relation to the question you have asked, the Regional Inspectorate of Dobrich, as a territorial administration to the Minister of Education and Science for the implementation, management and control of the system of people's education, is ordered to carry out another check in the schools in Dobrich.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u311	Are you done with your answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u312	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u313	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I really don't understand why you're quoting something that I have applied to my question. This is a document which I personally sent you and you quoted it as one to one what the inspection in Dobrich has established. I'm asking you to do an independent check. This practice, which I presented to you just now, has existed for years and this has even been recognised in this document, which you quoted to me by the mayor of Dobrich Mrs. Detelina Nikolova, although schools are a secondary authorising officer and should provide money for school security. Instead, it happens that schools are racketeering parents. And now imagine what 30 leva means. donation to a single mother who receives an average of 450 BGN. paycheck in Dobrich. That's a lot of money for a guy like that. Donations must be voluntary, as you said, and for them the school must issue an act or a donation protocol. This isn't really happening. Seven hundred parents, here's the signature, and I sent it to you. Seven hundred Dobrich parents are behind this question I'm asking you. They don't want to give up that money and ask where their money has been going so far. Do the necessary independent checks, for example from Varna. And stop this practice because the document that you quoted also confirms that this practice has been doing nothing for years and nobody is doing anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u316	I think there is no document in which the Ministry of Education and Science obliged parents, in one form or another, to pay. Is there an I.D. or no I.D.? Second... [[Relations of the National Representative Kalina Balabanova from the place.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. I can't hear a bit. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u317	Minister, please don't enter into a debate with the House. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u318	I'll do the necessary background checks, and I'll call you as soon as it's done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u319	Thank you. We are going to ask the MP Boyka Marinska about funding higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the National Assembly has submitted a draft of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020, which was examined in the Committee on Education and Science and started its discussion in the Chamber. Although a number of ideas that deserve support are reflected in the Strategy, it does not answer some key questions related to the development of higher education in Bulgaria and I will mention only some of them. The management of higher schools is too sparingly affected. This question is practically narrowed down to the idea of the Rector joining the Board of Governors. The types of higher education are only listed without, at least in general, specifying the criteria that distinguish them between them and the consequences of obtaining the relevant status. In addition, the strategy is too hesitant with regard to the mechanisms for achieving the desired results. No small part of the activities are provided for alternative, suggesting a serious dose of uncertainty about the content of the political will that is behind the measures in it. In general, the project can be addressed the general recommendation for more concrete and more courage in reforms. My question will focus on one part of the Strategy, however, which would largely determine the success of all other measures, namely the model of funding for higher schools. If the Strategy has the claim to reform higher education, it should be much more detailed to describe the funding model the model we are seeking and to contain a much stronger commitment to increasing the cost of higher education. The project not only does not affect the main components of the model of financing higher education, such as training fees, but also does not offer an indicative value of the amount of higher education expenditure at the end of the period of implementation of the Strategy. Although the draft Strategy for the Development of Higher Education has not been prepared and submitted by the current team of the Ministry of Education, the fact that it has not been withdrawn shows that you and your team are behind it. I hope that your answers to my questions will fill in some of the gaps in the Project, which would allow us to form an adequate position for the final support of the Strategy in plenary. In this regard, I ask: firstly, do you plan to maintain the model of shared funding of higher education and if yes, what will be the ratio between payment fees from the cold and differentiated regulations to support training in professional directions? Secondly, do you intend to keep the so-called paid education and, if so, for how long? I recall that paid training was introduced as an anti-crisis measure. Thirdly, what share of the gross domestic product of higher education expenditure at the end of the implementation period of the Strategy are you aiming at, for example, with regard to the financing of science, the Strategy contains an indicative objective with 1,5% of the gross domestic product? Fourth, will there be a difference in funding different types of higher schools and, if so, what will it be expressed in? Fifth, what are the specific intentions of reforming the way of management of the higher schools, the ratio and competence of the General Assembly, Rector, Academic Council, Board of Governors, and how will mutual control be ensured between these bodies, as well as protection of public interest by the state in the face of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance? And last question, what deadlines will you propose the necessary legislative changes, reflecting your views as a minister, with a view to answering the questions set out above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u321	Mrs. Marinska, you delayed the time by a minute and 30 seconds, but the questions were very important. I will take this time away from your right to be treated. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u322	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Marinska! The Ministry of Education and Science in this team has decided to support the Strategy submitted by the previous members of the Ministry and to submit it to the National Assembly. The decision has already been made, and she's here for several reasons. One of them is that we make a difference between Strategy and what follows after the Strategy its operationalization, which are the respective plans and possibly a new legislative framework with changes in the Law on Higher Education. The other reason is that the Strategy was an integral part of the requirements for adopting the Operational Strategy for Science and Education for Smart Growth. However, we have not yet fulfilled this condition. Since you have actually asked six questions, each one has the quality and severity of the questions that are asked here, I cannot fit into the framework, but I will offer you all this in writing. However, I can sketch what my answers would be to fit in time. On your first question,... about the use of funding. According to the provision of art. 95 of the Law on Higher Education students, PhD students and residents pay fees. The Ministry of Education and Science does not foresee a change at the time of this model. Under the same provision, the fees for training in state universities are fixed by the Council of Ministers annually. For some categories of students and PhD students, the Academic Council may determine such fees in a reduced amount than those established by the Council of Ministers, but this amount may not exceed two thirds of the differentiated regulations in the relevant professional direction. In the context of the Ministry's policy in the following years to increase the share of the subsidy on the basis of quality and reduction of the subsidy on the number of students, it can be said that, within the framework of academic autonomy, state-owned universities, taking into account the support funding received, could differentiate shared funding to the degree of symbolic training fees in professional fields which received a high amount of subsidy depending on the quality assessment of the training, to the extent that fees covering almost entirely the maintenance of a student's training for those fields which they did not receive or received a low amount of quality subsidy. This is the right of the Academic Council. Is the answer to your second question preserved? Higher schools in institutional accreditation are entitled, after a decision of the Academic Council, to carry out training against payment in a Bachelor's degree and in a Master's degree after acquired secondary education in the specialty of professional directions and regulated professions. Training shall be carried out under conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the relevant autonomous university and in the presence of a contract between the student and the university. How much it will benefit from this opportunity and for which professional directions, depending on its established by the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation Capacity, the needs of the labour market and the financial resources it has. In the case of low quality assessment of training to increase training fees in practice, the training paid will be regulated by demand on the higher education market. On your third question, what share of gross domestic product. In the Development Strategy in the Chapter, the expected results in terms of Objective 6 is recorded, and I quote: The achieved percentage of the gross product by 2020 is 1.5, separate for science, and increased funds for higher education. You're right in this regard, that's what the Strategy says. In the Action Plan of the Strategy measures in Objective 6, Activity 1 is planned to increase the annual amount of funds for higher education and research as a share of the VHS without indicating the price value. The indicative amount of the percentage of GDP for higher education that we are seeking should be determined on the basis of a medium-term analysis of the economic situation and budgetary opportunities of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. Your fourth question will there be a difference in funding different species? And at the moment there is a difference in the size of transfers, those of the 11 criteria, and also depending on the complex assessment of the quality of training. The aim is to increase the efficiency of the use of higher education funds in the period by 2020 by validating the new funding model, which is expressed in a significant differentiation of quality funding. The introduction of the model started as early as 2009. [[the President signals that time has run out]] and with each subsequent budget year, our efforts are aimed at increasing. Unfortunately, my time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u323	Within the framework of the answer to the additional questions you can further develop your main answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u324	I'm so sorry. The questions are important, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u325	I've also considered this thing, and you've been running out of time for more than a minute. Here are two additional questions according to the regulation, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One is my additional question, but before I ask it, I have nothing against Mr. Minister writing to answer all my questions, as he himself suggested, a little more intricately, in order to bring a little more clarity. In the draft strategy for higher education is the optimization of the network of higher schools. How do they fit in, Minister, to this end to be examined by the Council of Ministers proposals of the Ministry of Education and Science to convert four separate colleges into specialized universities, two of which are in the same place and train in the same or close professional directions?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u327	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u328	That's my answer. I believe that there is an agreement among the academic community and among the MPs, including representatives of the Reformation bloc, that certain changes to the Law on Higher Education are to be made, at least in view of the need to clarify and put a clear financial framework on how the higher education process in Bulgaria will be financed in the future as required by the requirement to become an increasing quality degree. How will quality be measured? As is known, quality is not only rating, but the rating contains many elements of research universities. That is, it will be in the direction of those who can combine science and education, and possibly building technologies. In this sense, many of the educational institutions that do not yet meet and will not be able to meet these quality requirements in the future and are also unable to get rid of specialties that do not comply with the requirements of the labour market will be forced to limit their activity. The Ministry of Education and Science in modern times has no reason to stop what is lawful........ the request of these colleges to grow into higher schools. It's legal. The whole system has been messed up in the last twenty years for the fact that we have understood colleges as a prop, only as a support of higher education and we have never paid attention to having another definition....................................... which is a topping of secondary education. These are the communies collages and so on that exist. They must be developed. I intend to develop this especially soon and present it to a parliamentary group. I hope that for the Northwestern region we can do a lot in this direction. These colleges, who have set out to be higher education institutions, let them become higher education institutions and see when quality is financed, what they can offer as quality, survive and even develop. If that can't happen, I'm very sorry. The Ministry and the budget are currently unable to help. They won't have any in the future. This isn't on the operational program. We need a whole new kind of college. That's my answer. Let's create them. Let's first create the legislative framework for what is really called college.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Regarding the answers to the additional question, please, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question was very specific and I wanted a specific answer. I'm not satisfied with the way you've answered me. The point of my question was: since the Strategy that you are importing and obviously standing behind it is talking about optimizing the network of higher schools. And we do the exact opposite.. we transform private colleges and give them the opportunity to become specialized higher schools. And to that question, I'm going to ask you to answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. We continue with two questions of the MP Ivan Stankov. The first one is about increasing the retirement age of the habilitated teachers. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 328, para. 1, t. 10 of the Labour Code states that at the age of 65 the work contracts of the habilitated professors are terminated. This is the only category to which a retirement age limit is imposed. It is a paradox that the unhabilitated professors and the assistants, as well as the employees, have the right to continue working, and long after their retirement age, and the limit is only for the habilitated. This problem is discussed in the Rectors Council, discussed in the trade union and in many universities, but for unexplained reasons it is not solved. Although professors are given the opportunity to work an additional three years, and the graduates are given two years, this does not happen in all universities. In some universities, as is the Thracian University, where I am still a Rector, retirement is definitely 65 years old. We believe that this is unfair for people who have made so much work and effort to habilitate themselves, to defend dissertations, some of which, as well as for the Doctor of Science, the state has spent money on their scientific growth, to be limited to retirement age. My question to you is: when will the issue of the retirement of the habilitated professors be discussed? And isn't it right, like all other groups and categories, to waive this restriction? If this is not possible, is it not appropriate to increase the retirement age of professors and tax collectors for a while? I fulfill here the obligation to give you the subscription of 297 lecturers who have submitted their requests to address this issue. [[Provides the file with Minister Todor Tanev's signature.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u333	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u334	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Stankov, the law that you are talking about exists for a long time and will exist for a while. All my teachers were retired on it, and I didn't agree with that. By this law, I'll probably be retired if I'm alive. By this law, my father was retired. I know what this is about. I have a lot of responsibility right that way. I'll give you in writing what this is about, but I'll tell you the conclusion. Academic development policy is the right of autonomous universities. The Minister of Education is science should not influence the decision of the higher school management bodies. The appropriateness and conditions of the possibility of changing the provision of the quoted by you and known to all art. 328, para. 1, t. 10 of the Labour Code to increase the retirement age of the habilitated lecturers should be the most widely discussed in academic circles. The Ministry of Education and Science expresses its full readiness to participate actively in these discussions. Thanks for that petition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u335	For a line, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u336	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am satisfied, but I also want to say that it is really very unfair to have only a restriction on the habilitated professors. In all other categories, this was discontinued. Many universities insist there are five or six universities to which we have presented the petition, which insist that this issue be addressed in the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as in the Parliament and to seek a solution.................................................................................... I offer up to 68 years of age at least three years, as was foreseen by three years of increase for professors and two years for docs. I believe that it would be fair for this restriction to be abolished and for this retirement age to rise higher. Life expectancy has been shown to increase by several years. So it is also appropriate that this should happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u337	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u338	Colleague Stankov, when I said that the Ministry would actively assist, I meant a very specific thing and now I will say it. I think the only way to bring this issue to a fairer, more oral and related type of education is the National Assembly. In order to enter the National Assembly, I would like to ask the Council of Rectors and you as a member to participate actively in the drafting of a bill for amendment to the Law on Higher Education. This is the shortest and most accurate path, not to do a piece, because this is not about a piece, but about a base. One of the main feathers in this law are the changes that must occur. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u339	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is again by the National Representative Ivan Stankov about the inadequacy of the term for acquiring an educational and scientific degree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, according to § 5, para. 5 of the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria persons under para. 4 t. 2 in the position of senior assistant and chief assistant shall be reassigned to an academic position if, within four years of the entry into force of this law, they do not acquire an educational and scientific degree of doctor. The Presumption of the Law was clear to activate everyone, to develop dissertations and to develop successfully later on to habilitate. I believe that the Law has given some positive influence because there have been a lot of dissertations, but there are some directions, as in the Agrarian Sciences, health protection and sport, veterinarian medicine, for which this period is insufficient. Many of the colleagues failed to defend their thesis and strictly following the law in our university and in many other universities we reduced the main assistants in assistants. I think this is also quite unfair, because there are some who have been granted the right to protection. At least they had to be spared, but in the Law nowhere is stated that such a restriction should be made. My question is: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science and will adjustments be proposed to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u341	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable colleague! The Ministry of Education and Science received many letters from higher schools, scientific organizations, trade unions, including individuals with questions and suggestions for an extension of the period you are talking about. In the analysis it turned out that there are a lot of professors - chief assistants who, for objective reasons, have failed to acquire an educational and scientific degree - Doctor, I repeat, for objective reasons. It's not a disease, it's the nature of the scientific specialty as well. Their possible reassignment of office will disrupt the balance in primary units and threaten the successful conduct of the educational process as well as their personal career development. We have a complete understanding of this problem. The Ministry therefore takes the view that the extension of this deadline is appropriate and appropriate and fully supports the proposed Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by a group of MPs from the Reformation Block and GERB, including Borislav Velikov, Boyka Marinska, Milena Damyanova and so on. The proposed amendment prolongs the period by one year in which persons who have not yet acquired the educational degree of doctorate to complete what is required of them so far. That's our point. I can add that, unfortunately, we are going to do things with the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, and the mother law is still the Law on Higher Education, which should be supportive. It should be the general framework for the particular case we are talking about in the sense that we have not specified what the role of the practitioners, who should also be able to teach without the existing restrictions. To those who are just good teachers, but are not necessarily research scientists, we have not made this change in the legislative framework. This is also coming as a representative of this community, except as a minister, I insist that this be done more quickly, of course, if the MPs have an understanding of the importance of the problem of higher education in common, all the more so in view of the need to catch up with the quality and meet the requirements of the operational programme that we so much want to come up with.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u343	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u344	Just a few words. I am extremely grateful, Minister, for the answer you gave. I think that young colleagues will be satisfied with this, because indeed this has created a lot of tension among the assistant staff. I said, as in agrarian science, I have a PhD student who does a selection. A pregnancy will be nine and a half months with cows, putting in a few more years to produce, that's 5-6 years. So there really are specialties where procedures are aggravated. I believe that the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber has very great injustices.. relief procedures for habilitation, easy habilitation in some of the universities where they have set lower criteria and too heavy procedures for assistants. Why is that necessary? After taking an exam to become assistants, at many universities continues this practice, then they are obliged to defend a thesis to become doctors to go to the group of senior assistants. They pass a candidate minimum exam where there is a basic discipline in the speciality and then again they have to pass an exam, reapply as chief assistant. We also believe that this needs to be corrected because it does make the procedures and the assistants very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u345	Thank you. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger. You won't use it. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Education Mr. Todor Tanev from the MPs Dimitar Tanev and Mrs. Boyka Marinska on the allocation of the funds provided for national secondary education development programmes. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Decree No 8 of 16 January 2015 on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 provided for 41 million. lv. implementing national secondary education development programmes. National programmes are an important instrument of education policy, as they allow targeted means to address specific problems of the system. They allow for greater focus on spending and ensuring results that would be difficult to achieve if the funds were planned on the budgets of kindergartens and schools. The funds for the implementation of national programmes during this budgetary year are twice as low as those envisaged for 2014, which means that they will not be enough for all the policies that need funding. In 2014, the Council of Ministers approved 10 national programmes with different modules. This brings the Ministry of Education and Science to the challenge either to reduce resources in proportion to all activities and measures, or to raise priorities in 2015 spending by choosing some policies over others. As the decree implementing the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 entrusts the Minister of Education and Science by 15 April to propose to the Council of Ministers the approved drafts of national programmes, please answer the following two questions: what policies will the Ministry of Education team support, which will be financed by the national secondary education development programmes? How will the planned 41 million be distributed? lv. on individual priorities and what policies will they cover? Are you going to offer for funding in 2015 a National Programme for the introduction of ICT in school and if you intend to include as a measure the purchase of new computers and educational software? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u348	Dear Mrs. Marinska and colleague Tanev, the question is quite extensive, requires a longer answer, but I will answer this: By the end of March this year will be developed, according to the established deadline, the national programmes for the development of secondary education for this current year with the corresponding financial resources for each of them, as you mentioned, of 41 million, as the funds determined by the Decree for the implementation of the 2015 budget approved by this National Assembly. However, let us mention that the 96 million bets. lv. in the 2014 budget, they were in a different situation than this year. I mean, this budget was developed in a unrealistic revenue section and deficited in the spending area only in the last month of 2014. The current staff of the Ministry of Education and Science, with the help of the Ministry of Finance, for which we are very grateful, has managed to finance expenditure deficits, at least with regard to staff retirement benefits, students' transport and sport in kindergartens. On the other hand, the 2015 budget has been developed on a stable basis, which creates some predictability to secure current costs in the system. The funds have been increased: 1. by the uniform cost standards; 2. means of transport for students and teachers; 3. the full-time organization of the school day; 4. Out-of-school activities. However, this limited opportunities in 2015, as you noted, for investment purposes as they were in 2014. "The National Program" "Modernization of the material base in the school" and especially the National Program "Information and Communication Technologies" in the school. First, we foresee that the National Program "Modernization of the material base at school" will be reserved only the Module "Accessive Architecture Environment" which also existed as an independent program during the transitional years and assists educational institutions in fulfilling the obligations arising from the Law on the Integration of Disabled People. Secondly, for the National Programme of Information and Communication Technologies, we are planning to preserve it, but with a reduced size compared to 2014. Here it should be noted that in the past, 2014, due to the failure of the revenue part of the budget and followed by this reduction in the budget of all ministries, made on the last day of the previous National Assembly, the expenditure on national programmes and specifically those on the National Programme of Information and Communication Technologies in School was reduced. So when matching, we should bear this in mind. Under this programme, we provide funding for 2015 amounting to around 7 million. BGN, of which 5 million to support the efforts of the schools to upgrade the hardware in the computers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u349	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. You have listed some national programmes that would receive funding in the current 2015 but I could not understand the National Program That's what I couldn't figure out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u351	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u352	Mrs. Marinska, I am fully informed and know about this big problem that exists with kindergarten staff, which quite unwarrantedly do not receive what all those who are in the education system are basically and upwards, unfortunately. This is an injustice that must surely find a solution, if possible this year. We will do our best to keep this on and on. By the end of March, we must make the budget framework of the Ministry. We're not ready for this, so I can't say what to what extent or how much. We will probably talk about a degree of resolution of this issue, but there will be movement on it, according to the budget. Personally, I feel very obliged to this group, as do you. I fully understand your question, for which I thank you. I hope we can do better.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u353	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u354	We move on to the questions to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva. The first question is from the National Representative Metodi Andreev on established unlawful acts and orders of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABCH) Prof. Plamen Mollov. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u355	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! On 31 July 2014 the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH) Prof. Plamen Mollov has issued an order that without any motivation and proven necessity takes away the activities of state laboratories to study a certain type of disease and transfer them to a private laboratory Sliven, owned by......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For this policy of Prof. Mollov his deputy Mr. Karabadzhakov issued another order requiring all state laboratories to send on their own account by 30 September 2014 the diagnostics at their disposal to the same private laboratory in Sliven. It is perplexing in this case that these diagnostics are produced by the laboratory owner of the laboratory in Sliven. The value of the diagnostics transferred to the private laboratory is around 1 million. lv. From what has been said, there are the following facts: The Public Procurement Act has been violated as a private laboratory in Sliven. For the record, the value of the activities transferred to this private laboratory, along with diagnostics, is over 8 million a year. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of art. 46d of the Veterinary Case Act these studies are paid to managing laboratories with money from the State Fund of Agriculture and constitute State aid to the keepers. In this case, it becomes clear that this is an unregulated state aid to a private laboratory. The other thing that is becoming clear is that the sole decision of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for providing millions of leva of government money without a competition of a private laboratory deprives accredited state laboratories of the possibility to apply for these activities by threatening their further accreditation and thus their institute of reference laboratories. There is a severe conflict of interest on the person as a result of the actions of Prof. Plamen Mollov is the only company in Bulgaria that can apply them through its own laboratory in Sliven. Here are my questions: Don't you think that there is enough fact and circumstances for an attempt by the Executive Director of BABBH to surround the Public Procurement Act in order to provide unauthorised State aid to a private laboratory? Secondly, do you consider that in the case of the facts so exported, Prof. Plamen Mollov, although in the state there is an opinion on him that he is a good specialist, can continue to hold the post of Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u356	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer. The abbreviation BABBH means Bulgarian Food Safety Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u357	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Andreev! First of all, honourable Members of the National Assembly, of the accusations that the laboratory is in Sliven, it is not my fault that I was born in Sliven. I'm proud to be born in Sliven. I had nothing to do with the lab, if that's what you're implying.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u358	For now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u359	Practices from your parliamentary groups do not bring them to ours!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u360	Madam Minister, let's concentrate on the answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u361	No, I'm responding to the toss in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u362	Don't answer the toss.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u363	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Andreev! I inform you that my powers as Minister of Agriculture and Food began on 7 November 2014, with the documents quoted by you from a previous period. In response to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency informed that until a public procurement procedure under the Public Procurement Act was carried out, the State Fund The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, as you know, operates under the special law. All this should have happened at a time when I am already in office as Minister of Agriculture and Food, the responsibility for compliance with the Public Procurement Act and the procedures concerned is entirely and personally the Executive Director.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u364	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Andreev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u365	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I, too, would like to say that the pitfalls in this Chamber are at all unfounded. All I can say is that what Minister Desislava Taneva said is exactly the same way that during her term of office would not have happened what happened during your term of office. The truth is that the fact that there are no precisely developed criteria for public procurement does not take responsibility away from the fact that it was pointed out here. More than BGN 8 million a year has made experience Prof. Plamen Mollov to be transferred to private benefit. This thing, if it happened in Romania, would most likely be arrested the next day, as many ministers have already been arrested, who have not respected public procurement laws. Once again, I urge that in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency behind the lustro of its chairman is actually a well-organised scheme that transfers government money to private laboratories. This is found in Plovdiv, you know what the problem is, how for one director are created twice in the city of Sofia, now in the city of Plovdiv, only to keep it in the system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I believe that this agency should be made a very serious control, because we all eat food every day that is studied by people who are caught in corrupt practices.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u366	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? No. The next question is from the MPs Bünyamin Hussein Hassan, Aidoan Mutalib Ali, Hamid Hamid on the protest of the workers and employees of the territorial unit of state and forestry Varbitsa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u367	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current question, to you, Madam Minister, was asked more than two months ago, but due to different circumstances it is happening today to answer the question that we asked with our colleagues. We ask that question now a little later. We believe that the problem which concerns is still relevant. Dear Minister, the workers and employees of the territorial enterprise State Forestry Varbitsa have protested for more than 45 days and have not allowed the newly appointed Director of the Holding Hills Amza to take office. The protest is an expression of people's concerns that this assignment will harm the good work and development of the enterprise. The reasons for this are serious. The same person twice participated in the management of the enterprise when there were serious problems. There's also an investigation into an infringement on his part. They don't accept the frank arrogance and the threats of dismissal of the new director. Unfortunately, these dismissals are already a fact. It is also very important to point out the fact that Hills Amza is the owner of a company for logging and wood processing, which is located next to the administrative building of the Forest. Although the company has been transferred to Amza's son, people suspect that bad practices to pursue personal business interests will continue. Even more important is the fact that a very large part of the population supports the protests. According to the specifics of the municipality people are very sensitive to the activities of this forestry. Dear Minister, we would like you to inform us what are the measures that will be taken by you to solve this case and do they include the release of the Director of the Public Service of Varbitsa?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u368	Thank you, dear Mr. Hassan. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Hassan, Dear Mr. Ali, Dear Mr. Hamid! The Director of the State-owned Chamber of Commerce Vrbitsa holds higher forestry education with a master's degree, a specialty of forest holding. As of 15 November 1995 to 9 October 1997, he was appointed head of the forestry sector of the territorial branch of the State-owned State-owned enterprises Vrbitsa, and from 9 October 1997 to 2 January 2002 he was appointed director of the same forestry sector. After his release in 2002 until 1 August 2012, he did not work on the holding. For the period from 3 January 2012 to 24 April 2012, as well as from 1 August 2012 to 24 July 2013, the person in question took up the position of Deputy Director of the State-owned Holding Vrbitsa, from which he was released on 24 July 2013. On the same date he entered into employment contract as a caretaker in a limited liability company in the town of Varbitsa. His employment contract by the company was terminated as of 12 November 2014, from which he was appointed Director of the Forest Holding Regarding the alleged existence of connectivity with the limited liability company of Varbica, it was found from the verification carried out in the commercial register of 11 February 2008 that the person was deleted as the owner and manager of the company in question and did not hold a share in it. For the period during which the same person had carried out the posts of Deputy Director and Director of the territorial unit of the State-owned State-owned enterprises, Vrbica, he was not a manager and had no shareholding in the company and was also not in employment with the trader. As regards claims that the person pursues his or her personal interests, it should be noted that, from 2010 until now, the limited liability company has not concluded contracts with the forestry company From the date of appointment of the person in question as Director of the State-owned Holding, Vrbica has been found to have ceased employment with three employees. One of them held a position of a Gorski guard and his contract was terminated on 27 November 2014 on the basis of Art. 71, para. 1 of the Labour Code at the initiative of the employer until the expiry of the test period. The party to whom the contract is agreed may terminate the contract without notice within the period of testing agreed for the benefit of the employer. The other two employees held the post of head of a forestry section and their contracts were terminated on 25 November 2014 on the basis of Article 8. 328, para. 2 of the Labour Code, where employees of the management of the enterprise can be fired with notice within the time limits of art. 226, para. 2 and due to the conclusion of the management contract of the undertaking. With effect from 16 December 2014, a definition of the Supreme Court of Cassation has been restored to work, the disciplinaryly released Chief Accountant of the Forest Economy, Vrbica, and therefore the employee appointed to that post is released. With regard to the measures that have been taken, I inform you that at the moment the North-Eastern State Enterprise has concluded a complete inspection of the state-owned state-owned company
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u370	For a line, Mr. Hassan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u371	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Of course, you have set out a rather large factology regarding this case, but I want to assure you that the problems in this holding will not end, they are permanent and at any moment can escalate again. The fact is that 15 employees and employees of this enterprise have already been fired. In this assumption we have proved right and I hope that we will not be right in the assumption that there will also be a lot of abuse in the activity of this enterprise in relation to the personal interests of the new director.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u372	Thank you, dear Mr. Hassan. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? No. We move on to the next question - two are united. The first is the issue of the MP Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov regarding the sale of land from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, falling within the project route of South Stream and the other issue is the MP Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on the sale of 358 decares from the forest fund of the project company South Stream Bulgaria. Who's going to develop the question? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our question really concerns the sale of land by the then leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food during the Oresharski government, which were sold for the purposes of the project South Stream and according to data that appeared in the media at significantly low prices. Dear Minister, in response to our request under the Public Information Access Act, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, or rather its then management, notified us by its letter of 17 September 2014 of transactions carried out on 21 July 2014 with 358 decares of state property for the benefit of South Stream Bulgaria. The lands are located in the land of the town of Varna and fall within the area of Pasha dere. The price of the transaction after only six days earlier, the land status has been changed, and at the expense of the State, from forest territory in urbanised territory, I stress here, urbanised territory is not for anything, namely for the construction of a pipeline and nothing else the price is 13.2 million. BGN, or about BGN 37 on sq.m. At the same time, a deal with 165 decares was cited in a number of media publications in the immediate neighbourhood of the land, however, for forest territory, i.e. unregulated properties, and the achieved price was more than 100 million. lv., or about 600 lv. the sq.m unregulated property is nearly 20 times higher than the price achieved by the then management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food at a square meter price. In relation to the above, please, Dear Minister, answer the following question: is there a damage to the State from the price at which the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Office of Oresharski was selling private state property to the project company South Stream and what would have been the amount that would have been incurred in the State by the sale of the properties at market prices, and further what would have been the amount that would have been incurred in the State of the fees for changing the status of the land if the change of the land status from the forestry territory to regulated land works for the construction of a gas pipeline was carried out not at the expense of the State, as I said, several days before the transaction, but at the expense of the buyer and after the conclusion of a contract for purchase sale? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u374	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Bayraktarov, do you have anything to add? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In fact, what I would like to add to the question of my fellow Members, as I have also asked you a similar question, is: what was required by the emergency sale of these 358 decares from the State Forest Fund after the project was practically frozen at that time? What is the methodology of the applied land valuation, provided that in exactly the same period one of the known banks purchased land in the same area at a price of 207 BGN declared in the official registers? In other words, the state in the face of the Minister of Agriculture and Food traded state property at almost six and a half times lower value. Are you going to talk to the D.A. about this deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u376	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Madam Minister, you are welcome to answer two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, on the one hand, and Dimitar Bajraktarov, on the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u377	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Slavov, Mr. Bayraktarov, in connection with the construction of a national site, announced by Decision No 876 of 2 December 2011 of the Council of Ministers, a commission in the Executive Forest Agency made a change of the purpose of land properties in forest areas, according to art. 74, para. 2, p. 2 and para. 3 of the Forest Law. The detailed development plan of the project is approved by order of 24 March 2014 of the Minister of Regional Development, which entered into force on 12 June 2014. By Decision of 11 July 2014 of the Commission in the Forest Executive Agency the purpose of 17 land properties in forest areas was changed. These properties have a total area of 358,6 decares needed for technological sites and extracting infrastructure, which are part of the site of Gazo pipeline South Stream Bulgaria. The change in the purpose of land use in forest areas has been carried out in full, with the applicant paying within the legal deadline a total price of 7 million. lv. in the bank account of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In order to perform a compensation afforestation, South Stream Bulgaria (JSC) has imported into the legal term of the bank account of the North-Eastern State Enterprise (North-Eastern State Enterprise) Shumen, funds in the amount of 377 thousand. lv. On 21 July 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 231/2014. 79, para. 2, p. 1 of the Forests Act and the decision of 16 July 2014 of a commission appointed by Order of 12 November 2013 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food was signed a contract for purchase-sale between the South Stream Bulgaria and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In accordance with art. 79, para. 1 of the Law on Land Property in Forest Areas, the purpose of which has been changed by the order of this law and for which the due price is paid within the time limit, is sold to the person by whom the change of purpose has taken place. At the end of the cabinet's term of office, Oresharski was prepared a market valuation of the 17 properties by an independent valuer for the acquisition of which the applicant paid a total of 13 million. 200,000. lv. with VAT. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has also complied with all legal requirements and procedures. Decision No 876 of 2 December 2011 of the Council of Ministers, with which the South Stream pipeline in the section in which it will be built on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, is declared as a national object of national importance and as such, is excluded from the establishment by decision of the National Assembly of 11 July 2013 moratorium on the properties falling within the boundaries of the construction zones of the Black Sea coast.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u378	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u379	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I carefully followed your answer, and if I've understood you correctly, it turns out that 7 million. lv. are paid for the change of purpose of the land, which means that if the total transaction is worth 13.2 million. BGN, only 5.2 million. lv. are paid for the land itself. That is, if we understand you correctly, it turns out that the land is worth less than the change of purpose for it. Madam Minister, you have two reasons for action. The first, to really refer to the prosecution for a serious examination on this occasion. The second, if it turns out that we are receiving official information from the Russian side about the termination of the South Stream project, you have reason to seek the legal mechanisms to break this deal, which seems to be detrimental to the national interest of Bulgaria and the restoration of these lands for the benefit of the state. I'm asking you these supplementary questions. I hope you will engage with them because such transactions cannot remain unexamined. It is obvious that the distortion of public interest, it is obvious that taxpayers have a direct loss of such transactions. Moreover, at the time the South Stream....was in the process of stopping or stopping shortly before then, with an explicit statement by the Prime Minister then Plamen Oresharski. Madam Minister, there is no way that changing the purpose of a land could cost more than the land. There's no economic logic in this thing! There is no way that if a reformist majority is now in power, it will not seek the revision of such transactions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u380	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Bajraktarov, please give a reply to Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I want to tell you that I am not pleased with your answer at all. I am not pleased because today, honourable Members, it turns out that the Bulgarian state land and the Bulgarian forest is no problem to sell at a priceless price. For a reason I asked you what methodology is this Bulgarian state property appreciated? Is there a valuer behind an assessment that, as I understand from your answer, is not 7 times, but is 14 times lower than the real market price? Dear Minister, I know that you are not responsible for this deal, but in the end you are today this minister, who has to protect the Bulgarian state property. Today I demand that you immediately refer to the prosecution, which I should be notified in writing that this has been done. If this thing isn't done, we will! We have to protect Bulgarian property and these funds because the deal was confessed on July 22nd, and if memory serves, this was the day when Oresharski resigned. Well, what was the rush to sell this valuable Bulgarian land? She's almost on line one in Varna. Valuable Bulgarian land! Tomorrow this land will be traded no 200 leva. per square meter, and 200 euros each, and this difference will be 30 times already. Doesn't the state need that money? Didn't that money, as it is written by law, have to enter a large part of the Silver Fund to support the pension system?! Madam Minister, I really insist that you refer to the prosecution in order to do your duty as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u382	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Minister Taneva, come in for a double.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u383	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! I read the chronology. Under this assessment, someone has definitely put his signature on and is made by an independent valuer, according to the relevant regulation. Provided that the MPs are categorical in their opinion that there is evidence of a crime, you have no doubt that what you want me to do is alert the prosecution. Thank you. [[Applause by MPs from the Reformation bloc.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u384	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue by MPs Mustafa Fahri Ahmed and Erdinch Ismail Hajrula on a protest on 2 December 2014 before the State-owned Chamber of Commerce "Momchilgrad" and a statement by the members of the Hunting Fishing Association "Rodopi" "Momchilgrad" and the members of the Hunting Fishing Company "Raven." Here you go, Mr. Hajrula.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u385	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! On 2 December 2014 a protest was held in front of the State-owned State-owned Chamber of Commerce "Momchilgrad," to which members of the Hunting-Fishing Association "Rodopi" Momchilgrad "members" 720, and members of the Hunting-Fishing Company "Raven" handed a statement to the Director of the State-owned Holding "Momchilgrad." The protest results from a letter sent by the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency with an exception. No IAG 31436/12.09.2014, where it is recorded to cease any action on game management in the former Hunting Area. These actions by the Director of the Executive Agency for Forests, Sofia, raised doubts about the members of the Hunting-Fishing Company "Raven" that action is being taken again to divide the hunting and forestry area, which led to tension and subsequent protest actions. The whole factology of what happened in time is described in the declaration sent to you and to you, which we apply again for information. In this regard, our question to you is as follows: have actions already been taken to divide the Hunting and Farming Region.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No IAG 31436/12.09.2014, which led to protests and readiness for civil disobedience of the hunters of the association and the companion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u386	Thank you, dear Mr. Hajrula. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u387	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Ahmed, Dear Mr. Hajrula! According to the provisions of art. 7, para. 6 of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game and Art. 3 of its implementing rules, the boundaries of hunting areas shall be validated by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency. The Executive Director of the Agency shall draw up a proposal on the basis of a reasoned written proposal from the Director of the State Forestry or State Hunting. The provisions of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game and the Rules for its Implementation do not require that the boundaries of hunting areas and hunting groups be changed after the submission of an opinion by the National Hunting Association. Regarding the specific question as to whether there is a procedure for the division of the Hunting Economic Area, I inform you that a proposal has been received in the Forestry Executive Agency to change the boundaries of the Hunting Economic Area. The proposal is returned because it does not meet the requirements of art. 3a of the Rules of Law Enforcement. The Forests Executive Agency has sent a letter on 2 September 2014 to the Director of the State-owned Ministry of Forestry................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At this stage, there are no prerequisites for taking action to cancel the letter. The same is necessary because there is tension between the two hunting associations, which not only has not been stopped, but has recently escalated, evident from the declaration of the Hunting-Fishing Association. I would like to assure you that a meeting will be organised this month with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Executive Forest Agency with stakeholders from the region in order to resolve the problems and suppress the tensions created. Dear Mr. Ahmed, dear Mr. Hajrula! The group hunting of wild boar ended on January 11, 2015, and it is the most massive hunting in the country, which gives a prerequisite for analysis and further discussion before the next hunting season. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Forestry Executive Agency will continue to exercise control over compliance with the provisions of the Hunting and Conservation Act for the purpose of correct relations related to the conservation and management of game, the organisation of the hunting farm, the right to hunt, and the prevention of incidents during hunting trips.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u388	Thank you, dear Minister. Any lines to the minister? Here you go, Mr. Ahmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u389	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Personally, as a MP from Kardzhali, I'm not happy with the answer, to tell you the truth. We believe that what is being done in the SGC.. Momchilgrad is an unprecedented violation of the legality and political repression of a particular group of citizens and a certain ethnic group. I remind you that as an official, you have a criminal responsibility to the relevant authorities and the judiciary, and I assure you that as MPs with my colleague from 9. a multi-mandated electoral area we will closely monitor the case and in the event of further violations, of course, we will also refer to the prosecution. We will use all the powers given to us by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria so that we can restore justice and compliance with the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. In my reply, I want to tell you a few things that have happened, and I will give you the necessary evidence and documents to see with your own eyes and read what is happening. State-owned holding - Momchilgrad, as you said, has already sent such a letter, which has been returned. This shows that all that is being done is repression and illegal is being asked to divide this hunting area. Whether you already know that the SGS Momchilgrad has lost all the cases since the end of 2014 on the basis of the orders issued to stop the use of game in the districts in the village of Raven and in the village of Nanovitsa and that the Director of DGS Momchilgrad does not implement a decision of the court. He's probably already starting a prosecutor's inquiry into failure to comply with a court order. We have information, Madam Minister, that the Hunting-Fishing Association "Rodopi" "Momchilgrad" will have claims of missed benefits for the period of stopping this hunt. Do you think that the Director of DGS Momchilgrad is a competent person and should continue to hold this position or be dismissed for abuse of office and non-compliance with a judicial decision and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria? I, as MP, will give you the judgments of the court today and will show them here to the citizens and colleagues to see them. [[shows them]] , without the right to appeal in the last instance. Thank you. PRESENTER GAVEN: Thank you, my dear Mr. Ahmed. Minister Taneva, come in for the coat. [[People's representative Mustafa Ahmed leaves the bank to the Minister's copycopy of documents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u390	Dear Mr. MP, I just want to say that hunting is a hobby.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u392	I am aware of the responsibility I bear under the Law. But I also realize that before the hobby, the most important thing is people's health and life, and that sometimes some fascinations with the relevant hobby lead to such conflicts that I really am not a hunter, I wonder how far they can go. Therefore, we have taken all measures to protect first the health and life of people whose hobby is hunting, for all other actions we will apply just the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u393	But the judgment must be carried out. It's not done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u394	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask the National Representative Cornelia Ninova about the policy of the government for the conservation, control and restoration of the Bulgarian forest. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u395	Thank you. Madam Minister, my question is what policy do you intend to conduct with regard to the Bulgarian forest? It is a fact that for years, regardless of which political party has ruled, the forest is cut out uncontrollably, stolen and exported out of Bulgaria. As a result, because of the accumulations in the years of these processes, we see in the last maybe year-and-a-half of what is happening, the floods and the landslides are a direct consequence of the uncontrolled clearing of the forest. I know you and I have our differences here. From BSP left Bulgaria we claim that cutting the forest is the cause of the floods. We heard you or perhaps the Deputy Minister had said that this was not the cause of the floods and the reasons are different. In this dispute, perhaps the most objective is the prosecution's judgment. Colleagues, there is a report of the Prosecutor General's Office following a large-scale inspection of all flooded territories in Bulgaria and this report says what are the reasons and gives recommendations on how to remove them. The first reason is the uncontrolled clearing of the forest, and one of the main recommendations is that we here do our job and make legislative changes so that we strengthen control and this stops. From BSP left Bulgaria, Madam Minister, we submitted proposals for amendments to the Forest Act. There are many, but there are basically two things. Firstly, we are imposing a ban on exports, except in exceptional cases for the Minister to decide. Secondly, to control the transport of the timber, electronic devices should be installed on the trucks to monitor the movement of vehicles. We've received a negative opinion from your Ministry, but with very frivolous, I'd say, arguments. They are: The proposed amendments to the bill do not correspond to the spirit of the Forests Act. They can't match! So far, the Law on Forests and His Spirit has shown that they are not working and that we have ruined the forest and hence our country and our people by drowning it. The second argument: "Counter the fundamental principles and policies laid down in the current Law and in the policies carried out by the State. This is what we want to introduce new policies. Clearly, what we've been through hasn't worked and it leads to what's happened. My question is clearly that we have differences. We offer two things in particular, you reject them. Please tell me what the government intends to do, because I know that there are legislations tabled by other parliamentary groups, including parties involved in management, in particular a moratorium on timber exports. Please present the view of the government, I hope not only in this conversation today, in parliamentary control, but in general in the future to find a common language on this topic, because it is a national cause more than anything else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u396	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u397	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Ninova! When I listened to the beginning of your questioning, I wanted to start by saying that although you are opposition, you have now quite rightly started asking that the condition of the Bulgarian forest and its problems are due to the mentality of its governance in the last 20 years, I would say, and you have not blamed the last three months. I'm saying it objectively. From then on, I will comment on your conclusion as to what differences we have in this regard regarding the bill that you submitted and which our former colleague Dimcho Mihalevski, God forgave, had also proposed, in the Forty-first National Assembly I think it was. The policy of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the area of conservation, control and restoration of the Bulgarian forest is in line with the priorities and measures laid down in the National Strategy for Forest Development 2013 - 2020 adopted by the Council of Ministers in autumn 2013, and the operational objectives and actions included in the Strategic Plan for Forest Development 2014 - 2023 adopted in August 2014. They are in line with the new Strategy of the European Union for Forests and the Forestry Sector adopted by the European Commission in September 2013. The 20 operational objectives of the Strategic Plan cover and specify the measures set out in the National Strategy. I'm just pointing out a few more important ones here. The main objective associated with the restoration of forests, operational objective No 1 is to increase the area of forests, wood stock and carbon stock in forest areas. The aim is to increase the forested area of the country, maintain and increase the stocks of wood and carbon, while achieving sustainable annual production of wood and wood products. There are 4500 hectares of new afforestation, 80 thousand. hectares built and self-forested areas, reconstruction, reconstruction and maintenance of 1500 hectares of field protection belts. Operational objective No 2, improving the management and use of forests, oriented towards setting up conditions for carrying out the necessary actions aimed at forming and maintaining vital multifunctional forest ecosystems, increasing forest productivity and improving their resilience to diseases, pests, natural disasters and other biotic and abiotic factors. It is provided: improving the sustainability and environmental value of 400 thousand. hectares of forest, regulation of wood composition, improvement of growth conditions, construction of 600 km new forest road network, improvement of the state of 2400 km from the available forest road network. On the control and protection of the Bulgarian forest is set operational objective No 3, increasing the effectiveness, prevention and fight against forest fires and illegal activities in the forests. The aim is to create conditions for increasing the effectiveness of prevention for forest fires, optimizing the control system, forest protection and game protection. They are provided for: strengthening capacity and improving the interaction between institutions in preventing and detecting illegal activities in forest areas, building and optimizing a single national electronic system for control of the extraction, transport and processing of wood resources, strengthening the monitoring and control by local executives of activities in agricultural areas during the fire-fighting season, building a single system for monitoring, early detection and disclosure of forest fires, and so on. The Forests Executive Agency and its structures shall exercise control over the implementation of the Forests Act in respect of all activities in forest areas. Several are the new moments that the new management team of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Forest Executive Agency have placed as a priority in improving control of forest areas. First, a procedure is under way to introduce an electronic system for control of the movement of wood in the country. A real-time software product has been created to account for the issuance of vehicles tickets and to account for all traffic. The period within which this system must be implemented in all enterprises is autumn. Secondly, another 173 mobile teams of two experts have been formed to carry out rotational checks in the country's forest areas. Thirdly, an agreement is signed between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Interior for interaction in control, forest protection, game and fishery resources. Fourth, there is the publicity of the logging in the forests through the information system of the Executive Forest Agency. Fifthly, a policy of expanding forests with special protective functions is under way. About a week ago, we increased the defense forests by another 103,000. hectares which are strictly individualised forest areas and are located in areas near the water basins. The new way to exploit these protective forests is to protect against the relevant flooding disasters. Changes in sector regulations have been prepared and two regulations on forest activities will be adopted by the end of March. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Seventh, during the course of the discussion there are proposals for a change of texts in the Penal Code, of art. 13 of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Eighth, an agreement was signed on 16 June 2014 between the Forest Executive Agency and the Customs Agency relating to the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 995/2010 which prohibits the placing into the European Union of illegally harvested timber. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Finance also discuss other financial measures on control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u398	Orientate to the conclusion of the answer. You will have the opportunity in answer to the two additional questions also to continue, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u399	Then let me finish with the following sentence. We, as a team and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, will also implement any other measure adopted by the National Assembly or by a relevant body with regard to forest control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u400	Thank you. Two supplementary questions, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u401	Madam Minister, we've really started together, but I don't think that's how we're going to end up in this tone because I'm surprised at the answer. Half was as follows: priorities, strategies, operational objectives, actions in the Strategic Plan, a new EU Strategy, 12 operational objectives of the strategic plan, the multifunctional system, the sustainability of the forest. If anyone in this room heard anything, say I didn't! And I can't imagine what the viewers have learned from ordering these buying words to a simple question: will you support a moratorium on timber exports? Will you support putting electronic devices on the trucks? All you have then specifically outlined is the fight against the consequences of the problem. We'd like to eliminate the cause of the problem. One of the serious reasons is the export of wood. Right there, however, you do not want to support us and accept these changes in the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u402	On the contrary, I said I supported you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u403	As far as electronic tickets are concerned. Colleagues, with one electronic ticket, you can transport three or four trucks, naturally, cheat, do corruption and so on. We want you not with one ticket to do these things, but on each vehicle to have an electronic device that is enhanced control. I also do not accept your thesis: we will do everything that Parliament accepts. It is the Council of Ministers who has a legislative initiative on different policies, including the one that has been extremely hurt in recent months. Not to say, "Whatever you accept, we will carry it out, and here it is known that the majority does not support our proposals. We expect you to take the initiative to make legislative changes. My two specific questions are the following. Will there be a moratorium on timber exports? Will there be electronic tracking as a control way to curb abuse?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u404	These are your specific questions, because your questioning is formulated, I recall exactly: The policy of the government for the protection, control and restoration of the Bulgarian forest. Editorial: "Dear Minister, what is the policy of the government regarding the conservation, control and restoration of the Bulgarian forest?" Do not mislead viewers that it is not answered a question that you are now making specific on the subject of the moratorium. Now answer the specific questions, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u405	I will answer the specific questions. Yes, we have the right to a legislative initiative. As I announced in my reply, we are preparing these at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and we will present them. With regard to the legislative initiatives initiated by the relevant parliamentary groups, the decision is here in Parliament. That's why I said whatever decision is passed, we'll make it happen. I would like to respond specifically to the second question in relation to the electronic system. Mrs. Ninova, if you'd listened to me, that was one of the points and I said the deadline for introducing the Electronic Tracking System for the movement of wood. It is piloted, not by tickets, through an electronic traffic system. The ticket is only an integral part of the entire electronic system that tracks the movement of wood from extraction, temporary storage to end-user. That's what I reported. It is required in each of the sites to which wood goes from logging to processing, but it takes time to install this product and the obligations of the relevant operators in the sector. I said that, I'm just saying it. I also want him to answer your additional questions. The state forests are up to 70% of all forest areas and you know it. The biggest violations that have been found, the paintings and pictures that we are shown on television are usually in areas where there is a concentrated recovery of private property, where the forest property is smaller and under current legislation the logging regime of up to 2 hectares is much easier. This allowed the conduct of logging that, in general terms, based on the total amount of concentrated restored area, created these problems. In this direction, the legislation on control must undoubtedly be changed. The biggest problem remains not the export of wood. How much is the contribution of 6.4 million? Cubic 900 thousand. The cube is exported to Turkey and Greece. The remaining 84% are realised on the internal market. Dear Mrs. Ninova, the measures that will be taken are important so that the use and logging are legal. That there will be a reduction of 16% exports, we will accept it, but the question remains that the remaining 84%, which are mined, is legally mined and that control is effective. That problem remains. The Moratorium proposed here is not to stop logging, but to stop exports, which is 16%. I know that you are a wonderful political speaker, and there is no way in this regard that I can be your rival in the stands. But I can tell the facts as they are and explain them as they are and to society. The problem is control. The problem is: what package of measures? I have set out seven measures that we have taken in the first three months, and apply them with the deadlines of their performances. What further measures should we take to minimize the subjective factor or the forest guard face, be the control objective with a minimalized subjective attitude? You know that in settlements where there is high unemployment, the population is poor, forest enterprises are the only employer and corruption practices are the easiest. That's clear to everyone. There are most of the violations there. Since we entered into a mandate, as a minister, I have responded to every single signal of illegal logging! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I can give you an example of how forest guards from the Sumerian enterprise refused to go on an alert in Omurtag because they were afraid at night when they came home, what would happen to them. So the problem is not to stop 16% of the trade. The problem is the package of measures that is being implemented to minimize the subjective influence of those who will carry out the controls! We are adopting all such measures, including with regard to the introduction of the electronic system for the movement of wood.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u406	For attitude, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u407	Mrs. Taneva, I've picked up a few contradictions in your words. The first, as far as private owners are concerned, and those two hectares you're talking about. In the Bill we propose, in § 1, para. Two says...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u408	The bill will be the subject of another debate in the legislative work. We're in parliamentary control here, Mrs. Ninova. You will have the opportunity to defend your proposal accordingly. If you continue with the Bill you are proposing, I will simply take away your floor because it is out of the order for parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u409	Mrs. Tsacheva, I dispute this statement because the laws are part of the policy, and my question is what...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u410	Control is no place for a preliminary presentation of a legislative initiative of MPs! There's a line to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u411	Madam Minister commented on this Bill and these two hectares, and I reply that here we propose that this be the case? You have not accepted it. Here's the first contradiction. Secondly, you say that limiting exports is not a problem, that is not the essence of the problem. In the written statement you have given me, write that this is a problem, a problem of the World Trade Organization, a notification to the European Commission and intergovernmental agreements between the Republic of Turkey and Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria. So that's a problem. Don't deny it. Finally, the argument for speaking qualities is not strong and does not belong here. Everyone has their weaknesses and pros and pros in both speaking and behavior. [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] Indeed, more than anything on this subject, we would like to challenge national energy and political agreement between all of us to solve the problem, which, I say again objectively, has been piling up for years. Accumulating, it led to these floods, landslides, death, and the taking of people's houses. It is high time we stopped with some personal arguments and assessments and found common agreement, national energy to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. There is a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev concerning sanctions imposed on Bulgaria under the Rural Development Programme. Mr. Danev will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u413	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Let's go from forest to European funds absorption. As a result of ineffective control over projects of municipalities and companies under seven support schemes between 2010 and 2013, our country has been sanctioned by 60 million. Euros. There is a potential risk that sanctions will reach 250 million. These corrections have been made by the European Commission. The losses mainly come from problems with public procurement on municipal projects from the system for identification of agricultural parcels, losses in direct payments, measures in non-farm activities and so on. The final loss for 2014 The year of approval, both years of realization, is about 55 million. Euros. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market does not mean that the aid is Dear Minister, what concrete steps has the Ministry of Agriculture and Food taken to minimise losses under the Rural Development Programme as a result of sanctions on direct payments and measures concerning the implementation of municipal projects? What are the most problematic projects on the various measures that led to these losses?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u414	Thank you, Mr. Danev. For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u415	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, Mr. Danev, currently under the Programme there are five pending audit procedures by the services of the European Commission, on which there is no final decision to impose financial corrections. These procedures have indeed made a proposal for the imposition of adjustments, not only being challenged by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but also actively working towards their dropping out. The actions taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to minimise the risk of financial corrections are mainly related to: A mechanism shall be established for the recovery of interest on advance payments paid. A mechanism has been established to recover part of the advance payments, which, following a change in the grant agreement, exceed the limit of up to 50 percent of the value of the approved financial assistance. Under the applicable European legislation, art. 71 of Council Regulation No 1698/2005, the deadline for payment under the Rural Development Programme is 31 December 2015. In order to create conditions for the timely conduct of the procedures for the selection of contractor under the Public Procurement Act is to accelerate the implementation process of the projects. At the end of the implementation of the Programme, a period shall be introduced until the beneficiaries of grant aid, which are contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act, must publish a decision to open a tender procedure for the selection of contractors. In order to ensure the successful execution of the contracts and to reduce the percentage of financial corrections, it is necessary that the recipients of financial aid comply with the instructions provided by the Paying Agency upon prior verification of procedures for selecting a contractor under the Public Procurement Act. The following actions have also been taken by the State Fund's competence, the Paying Agency. A system for monitoring the implementation of ongoing projects is in place through constant contact with the beneficiaries and coverage of the results in the SPC. The Fund's staff shall cooperate fully with the beneficiaries with regard to the removal of open deficiencies or non-compliance with the payment applications submitted. As I have publicly announced the procedures that are under way, I would like to say that from the beginning, we have been able to protect and eliminate the proposed financial correction of 96 million. Euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u416	A line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u417	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I must tell you that these financial losses, which were further imposed by the European Commission or the financial penalties that we have, have come to us in more light of the fact that almost the entire period of implementation of the Programme, we have had a problem with the absorption of funds and this has happened since 2009. Every year, the N+2 programme has returned funds to the European Commission. You answered correctly that audit missions are coming. They will be coming for the entire programming period and I hope that your team will be able to convince the representatives of the European Commission that the errors made as the first programming period for Bulgaria are something that they should accordingly bear in mind and be able to correct, minimize these losses for the budget. After all, we are talking again about the Rural Development Programme. The concerns are also for 2015 regarding the use of the funds under the Programme as the last for the programming period. As you know, we must absorb by the end of 2015 about 750 million. EUR, which forms roughly as follows: around 470 million EUR is the indicative budget for We've got 183 million here. EUR which are given as advances to municipalities. Once again, we return to the topic of "municipality" which must show that they have used the funds to prevent us from returning that 183 million. This, I suppose, will be a serious problem and a challenge to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund. Therefore, the transfer of the money from the Guarantee Fund to the Programme in order not to lose those approximately 100 million. Euros. I would very much like you to succeed in trying to minimize the losses of the Rural Development Programme, but these measures that you have highlighted: a monitoring system, full assistance to beneficiaries, they have always been implemented but have not shown effectiveness. More like another control system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u418	It's a hole, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u419	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, just more like factology. Currently under the old Rural Development Programme, under the N+2 rule, or any unused funds of all years from its application until 2013, including This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Last year, 51 million. Euros, you know, are lost, rather not absorbed and the budget has been reduced, is 130 million. Euros. We hope in this year, given the commitments we have, there is virtually no way that this size will in any case increase as statistics for the entire old rural development programme. Apart from that is the fine of 60 million. euros that came last year on passes. Half of them are for direct payments, less than half, and the rest of us have accepted this fine for the next three years that we will refrain from the refunds that have been paid. The rest are on the so-called municipal projects. At present, in procedures requiring a financial correction from the funds to be recovered, there are 120 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. EUR 28 million EUR, which for Measure 311 and Measure 312, i.e. these procedures are under way. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food defends how, of course, we do not owe such sanctions. The total value is 151 million. euros under which there are procedures at the moment, but they are for requested financial corrections. Regarding the measures that you said yes, regarding payments, municipal projects and municipalities have really urgent work to do, as I use the case to answer a question previously asked to you will not be accepted, such is the opinion, you know that there was a request from other Member States to extend the six-month period of payment, i.e. by the end of the year they will have to complete all projects under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u420	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Mr. Haytov asked to be the last, since he has an appointment at the moment. A question by Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova regarding the delivery of a vaccine for the disease (syn language) under the Public Procurement Act of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. We're listening, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u421	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! In 2014 the disease was established in Bulgaria and total losses for farmers, which were made, are estimated at nearly 100 million. lv. given the fact and consequences of this disease. After the farmers lost thousands of animals, the scandal about choosing a company that will deliver a vaccine against the disease has spread over recent months. Let us recall that 37,566 animals were affected by the contagious disease, of which the number of sheep was 36,252. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food's commitment was not only to organise the payment of the benefits, but also to negotiate with the European Commission financial assistance for the purchase of vaccines for 2015 and to organise, respectively, a procedure for their timely delivery. This was also the response of Minister Grudev in the first parliamentary control we had, which explained that all three directions worked, and then the hope was, respectively, that the European Commission would recover 75% of the cost of the vaccine. Anyway, the public procurement had a lot of problems. The chronology is as follows: it was announced on 8 December 2014. It is very late compared to the commitment made to do so in October or November. And it is for the delivery of vaccine without notice and invitation to participate five companies in the beginning of 2015. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency suspended the procedure for the delivery of a vaccine and expected the Commission for Protection of Competition in relation to complaints about the delivery. The dispute also reached Brussels, as one of the companies, respectively, submitted a signal to the European Commission's representation, claiming that the technical requirements laid down for the vaccine to be supplied are discriminatory and are made to meet the characteristics of only one product on the market. My question to you: what measures will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the timely delivery of vaccine to the country, given the opinion of specialists in the sector that vaccination of the disease That's the deadline. Have financial resources been provided for its purchase and has an organisation been established to implement and administer the vaccine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u422	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u423	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, as you quoted data about the disease, a little chronology for the development and spread of the disease. On 29 May 2014 in the territory of Greece, the disease has been acquired and the following day the country informs the World Health Organisation for Animal Health. On 30 June 2014 in the village of Mandrica, Haskovo region, there was a registered presence of the disease in Bulgaria on the border with Greece. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency takes the necessary measures to carry out barrier vaccination to locate the disease and prevent its spread throughout the country. In the meantime, taking procedures to disinsect and disinfect the barns, storage facilities and habitats of the carrier of the disease in border areas, enhanced preventive measures to limit the illegal intra-Community movement of susceptible animals from Greece. On 4 July 2014, an order was issued to the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the notification of a primary outbreak and the implementation of detailed measures to control and prevent the spread of the disease. On 3 September 2014, a technical meeting was held in Brussels with experts from the European Commission's Directorate-General for Sanco, where it is recommended that our country take action to vaccinate susceptible animals. In order to limit and eradicate the disease, the European Commission's recommendation on animal vaccination should be complied with. By Decision of 8 December 2014 of the Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, a negotiated procedure was announced without a notice with subject: The same was terminated on 2 February 2015 by a decision of the contracting authority, as candidates cannot deliver the vaccine within the time limit laid down in the contract, evident from the report of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to me. A new procurement for the purchase of the vaccine was announced on 16 February 2015. To this end, the Council of Ministers adopted Decree No 26 of 10 February 2015 approving additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of 4 million. 625 thousand. lv. for the purchase of a vaccine for vaccination against the disease of all sheep and bovine animals in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is today published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The above report also states that vaccination will begin at the beginning of March 2015. In the meantime, I have spoken with the Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency today, who assured me that since March 1st there is an organisation and readiness for the start of vaccination. It will be carried out by 1008 registered veterinarians proposed by the Bulgarian Veterinary Union on a established vaccination plan. I have no reason to doubt this report and I believe that everything should be implemented under the Law and that vaccination should begin from 1 March.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u424	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u425	Thank you. Madam Minister, in order for vaccination to take place on 1 March, just the vaccine must have been produced. In order for it to be manufactured, there must be a contract with the supplier company. I didn't hear who won the contract and on what basis was the company approved the only one who has been said to be unique since October and only she can produce the vaccine? In addition, the vaccine does not exist until there is a signed contract, no advance has been transferred. So I highly doubt, unless there is any other agreement that there is a vaccine, it will be delivered and from 1 March it will begin its use in livestock farming in Bulgaria and overcome the problem, which is even more serious in 2015, because it means that there will not be one animal left in Bulgaria if we accordingly have the same way of managing and combating diseases. As with the blue language you have problems now with the bird flu, but there it seems that things are a little more orderly from the point of view of the technology that is being implemented. A very large part of the animals in the sector are not registered. How will animals be covered there? Because if animals are dropped, it means that there is no benefit in the administration of vaccinations. I would like to assure you that the problem is extremely serious and that this delay, which occurred from October to December with the announcement of the public procurement, creates the feeling that we are not ready to carry out this prevention and to protect Bulgarian livestock farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u426	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you are, you have the opportunity for a douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u427	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, just to complete my reply on the possible assistance from the European Commission. After talks that I have had with the Health Commissioner of one of the Council of Ministers, who was, I have received assurance that half of the value of the vaccine for which the Council of Ministers has taken a decision and has provided the funds will be restored. As regards the manufacturer of the vaccine, when an official document for the completion of the procedure is issued, of course, it will be made public by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I have been reported with an official report from the Director of the Agency on the occasion of established manufacturers with an available vaccine so that there is no cause for concern that on 1 March it cannot be delivered and available.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u428	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. We continue with your second question, Mrs. Bachvarova. I see you have a third one after that. The second question is related to problems in the implementation of the Law on Planting and Planting Material. Please ask your question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! The questions were asked at different times and now their answers have accumulated. My question is related to problems that occur in the implementation of the Law on sowing and planting material. Under the Act in force, according to the requirements of art. 29 for each farmer it is necessary to provide spatial insulation for seed production. However, this imperative norm in the Law accordingly puts the mayors of municipalities in a very difficult position because it is necessary to issue an order for spatial isolation. But most often, especially in the area of Dobrich, I mean, within spatial isolation, there are arrays that are processed by neighbors adjacent to the one who has declared spatial isolation, and therefore enter the space in which the land is processed by other farmers. For the most part, these other farmers have signed and established plans for the introduction of crop rotation of the areas included in the direction of Measure 214 of agri-environment payments. It should be noted that according to the interpretation of art. 29 of the Law, the mayor has no discretion as to whether to issue the relevant order for spatial isolation, stating only that the application of the person concerned must be accompanied by an authorisation by the Director of the Executive Agency by way of testing, acrobation and semecontrol, as well as a sketch of the agricultural land for the production of the crop material. My question is: what control does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food exercise on the activities of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control in relation to seed production permits, most often hybrid, because the existence of a document from this Agency is the only and sufficient condition, the basis for the production of these seeds? Are border checks and property checks done when these permits are given so that there are no problems and attacking the mayors' orders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u430	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u431	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Bachvarova! In accordance with art. 29 of the Law on sowing and planting material an order for spatial isolation shall be issued by the mayor of the municipality on the basis of an application for this, accompanied by the authorisation for the processing and marketing of seed and planting material under art. 28, para. 1 of the Law on sowing and planting material, issued by the Executive Agency by means of a variety of tests, acrobation and seed control, and a sketch of the agricultural land for the production of seed and planting material, issued by the respective municipal agricultural office. The decision on spatial isolation shall be taken by the mayor under conditions of bound competence. It shall not be authorised to assess the admission of spatial insulation provided that the above documents are presented. Of them, only the authorisation is within the competence of the Executive Agency by variety testing, aprobation and semecontrol. A decisive administrative body is the mayor of the municipality. This legal situation is motivated by the fact that the local authorities have the most full coverage on the territory of the country and are able to provide administrative services at the most close proximity to the stated seed areas. For the authorisation, the applicant shall provide the documents, including documents certifying the legal basis for the use of the property. It is thus ensured that, at the time of the application for authorisation, the applicant is actually able to produce seed or seed material. The authorisation shall be unlimited, evidence of ownership of the production areas or their use on another legal basis shall be required for its issue. The ownership or other property and bond rights on the seed areas may change at any time. Therefore, for the issue of the order, the applicant shall also apply an up-to-date sketch of the agricultural land for the production of seed and seed material issued by the respective municipal agricultural office. Therefore, because of the requirement of art. 29, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law, for the presentation to the mayor of an up-to-date sketch of the agricultural land for the production of seed and planting material, the existence of a seed authorisation by the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control is necessary, but insufficient basis for issuing an order for spatial isolation. In case of doubt in the validity of the documents submitted, the mayor may always order on-the-spot checks and request further evidence of the rights to production areas and their boundaries. The mayor's order may be appealed in administrative proceedings. Once the order for spatial isolation is issued, the same shall be challenged under the general rules of the APC before the governor or before the Administrative Court at the choice of the person concerned. Interested parties therefore have, on a common basis, all the possibilities to participate in the proceedings for the protection of their rights and legitimate interests before, during and after the final administrative act is issued. The current legislation does not provide for the participation of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol as a party to this production. Prof. Bachvarova, in answer to your question: whether physical checks are being carried out for the boundaries and ownership of the property for seed production, I would like to inform you that this is in the competence of local authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u432	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I must tell you that your answer did not satisfy me in terms of the fact that, apart from a description of the legal provisions in the Law on sowing and planting material, the question of what we do is not answered when targeted and trendy farmers who declare areas and spatial distances enter the personal space of neighbouring farmers. And this is done by mass not only in the region of Dobrich, but also in the region of Razgrad and Targovishte. From now on, the question is how to limit these abuses, because the farmers affected, in any case, by questioning the order, will be dismissed. This is a procedure with which we create prerequisites for problems on both sides and do not solve the problem in any way. Therefore, the Executive Agency for Seeding, Acrobation and Seed Control (IASAS) must have an idea of where this property is located, which must be limited spatially and then grant these permissions. In practice, the mayors have absolutely no rights. I expected you to make a commitment to change the regulations in this direction, because otherwise we risk many of the farmers having problems ensuring the spatial isolation and production of hybrid seeds, and not just importing them into Bulgaria from other, mainly European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u434	And thank you for the line. Minister Taneva, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u435	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, you as MP are within your right to initiate legislative change. In my reply, I said that in any breach of the order which has been issued, there is a line in which any person concerned may appeal and alter the order so that no rights can be violated. I doubt that the Executive Agency, ISAAS, can implement and influence the decisions of local authorities. Once again, it is a matter of legislative initiative, and if the legislator so decides, a change can be adopted in that order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u436	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with another question from the National Representative Mrs. Bachvarova on the management of vocational schools at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry's views on their development. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is related to the management of professional high schools at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry's views on their further development and strengthening. According to my information, which may have been a few months ago, there are 78 professional high schools operating at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. They are the backbone of Bulgarian agriculture from the point of view that they prepare staff who can then actively be engaged in agricultural production. Along with the debates related to the Law on pre-school and school education and the Law on People's Education, which the Bulgarian Socialist Party submitted to parliament, and in many of the meetings the representatives of professional high schools in the Ministry expressed their concern in terms of their future and how they should develop in order to be able to perform their functions successfully, all the more so that during the new programming period the training of staff and their qualification is one of the important pillars of the common agricultural policy. Apart from that, I would like to tell you that in the period 2010 - 2013 the Ministry of Agriculture then developed a functional analysis of professional high schools and proposed that in a significant part these professional high schools should switch to municipalities, which is part of the strategy then of the Ministry for solving problems in this area, that is, we decide that we do not need to finance this activity through the state budget, but we transfer all this to municipalities. My question is: what is the ministry's view of supporting professional high schools? What measures will help the sector to provide a technical basis for these professional high schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u438	Thanks for asking. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u439	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, the school network at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food covers 76 institutions of industry vocational education and training. At present, students in schools funded by the Ministry are trained in 12 professional fields, of which the majority are plant and livestock farming, forestry, veterinary medicine, food technologies. For the 2014/2015 academic year, a total of 21 130 students were trained, including in evening, self-contained and part-time form 6500 students were trained. As integrated students with special educational needs for first degree are trained 120 students. The main goal of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is together with the Ministry of Education and Science to create conditions for successful professional training of future staff based on knowledge and good quality of education. It is clear for the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that the agricultural sector is growing the need for highly qualified specialists with specific innovative skills. Within 14 April 2015 a comprehensive analysis of the network of vocational schools, specialties, professions, the state of the school bases, number of students, existing links and collaboration of vocational schools and businesses will be carried out, which is a first step for validating an adequate educational system. It is working together with the Ministry of Education and Science in the direction of changing existing legislation regarding vocational education and training, better funding than delegated budgets and inclusion in various European programmes, as well as strengthening the relationship between branch organizations and education. It is also worked in the direction of ensuring the possibility of organizing vocational education and training through work. This is a form of partnership between professional high schools and employers. This approach will allow for a smooth transition between school and workplace. It will improve and facilitate access to education. Last but not least, it will be an effective tool against youth unemployment. The European Union's strategy for smart and inclusive growth, Europe 2020, puts education, research and innovation in the focus of its policy for a competitive economy, growth and employment. The envisaged financial support for their development is 80 billion. EUR for seven years. The Ministry's efforts are to create conditions and support educational and scientific institutions, as well as to exploit the opportunities of the EU Strategy for the Danube Region adopted in 2011. Prof. Bachvarova, according to the new Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, opportunities for support of vocational schools at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are provided for, and three under measures. This is a perspective for improving the quality of vocational training, under Sub-measure 1.2. High schools will have the opportunity to purchase agricultural equipment and equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u440	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u441	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I did not hear the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on vocational schools and whether they would remain in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as secondary officers. That's what I expected as an answer. Moreover, this functional analysis, which is currently being done and its deadline is 14 May, has already been done once. You have continuity. By order of 14 May 2010, a permanent working group was formed "Agrarian education and science" which carried out this analysis. I quoted part of it, namely that professional high schools should switch to municipalities. This means that we will not have professional high schools because adequate funding of these schools will not provide conditions for their professional realization. Today, I read a study that every fourth one goes out without a profession from professional high schools. The reason, however, is not because of poor teaching, but because there is no material base, i.e. there is not enough investment in these high schools to have a material base to give them sufficient professional skills. I encourage you, when you create another working group, to see what has been done before and in no case do you think that the transition to the municipalities of vocational schools in most countries of the European Union will solve the problem and the issue of education and quality of education in these schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u442	Thanks for the line. Opportunity for the doppelganger. Here you go, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u443	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, in my reply, I outlined what are the opportunities of professional high schools currently in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for provision with the necessary technical facilities and equipment. This is the Rural Development Programme. Whatever analysis we do, a group to create, other opportunities in this regard.. You are very well aware of the possibilities of the national budget, it is difficult to imagine that there will be. Regarding the vision of passing professional high schools to municipalities. Yes, there are municipalities that have shown interest in this. However, the whole issue regarding the place of professional high schools should also be addressed in the context of the educational system in Bulgaria. We, as the Ministry of Agriculture, cannot be an exception to the general vision of education in the country. I think there is nothing wrong with this, on the contrary, always talking, you know, about decentralisation, local authorities and local communities have the best idea and the best view what they need in the region. One of the steps towards education giving what business wants is for local authorities to influence the determination of these decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u444	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are going to ask the MP Boris Yankov Yachev about limiting illegal logging of forests. Here you are, Mr. Yachev, to develop your question. I remind you that it may be within 3 minutes, then you will have the opportunity for two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, on a proposal from the Patriotic Front in the Program of the Government for Sustainable Governance as one of the main priorities was written: Introduction of measures to curb illegal logging of Bulgarian forests, as well as reduction of the volume of trade and suspension of exports of raw wood. It is also recorded that, if necessary, the government may impose a moratorium on the logging priority 14.3. It is undisputed that forest cutting has a direct link to natural disasters. One of the most common causes of devastating landslides and floods invading our country is the mass illegal logging that deforests huge terrains and makes them susceptible to erosion. In this regard, my question to you is: for nearly three months of management, what effective measures have been applied to curb illegal logging and reduce trade and exports of raw wood?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u446	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Madam Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u447	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, I have already answered such a question to Mrs. Ninova, some things I will probably repeat. The Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018, as a priority is the implementation of actions and measures against illegal logging in the Bulgarian forests. These measures are also a priority in the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, with direct functions and responsibilities in this direction being in line with the Forest Act and assigned to the Forest Executive Agency. Moreover, our political cabinet with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food announced its programme at the beginning and the first measures that were taken were right for the forest sector. You know what was behind the Rural Development Programme and the preparation of the campaign for direct payments. However, the first measures were right in the woods. Since 1 December 2014, additional 173 mobile teams have been formed for the protection of forest areas. To date, the same have carried out a total of 23,160 checks. 2227 timber mining sites, 7481 vehicles, 11 415 individuals and hunters were inspected. 942 acts have been made to detect administrative violations and 593 cc of wood and 76 carts have been retained. The aim of enhanced control is to improve prevention and, as a result of these checks, the criminal decrees to become less and less. In order to protect the forest road infrastructure from destruction, by my command is limited the use of state forest roads to transport wood when they are rewet. To minimise violations of forest ecosystems, this order imposes changes in the forestry plans of state forestry and hunting farms. The upper limit of the intensity of the restocking is limited to 20% of the stock of the plantations and the use is limited to 30% in the viewing sections. I would also like to remind you that by another order of mine, it is now prohibited that the area of the clearings in the state forests in the course of final phases exceeds 2 hectares. All these restrictions are now also entering the Law on logging, which is about to be adopted and is currently at a public debate. With regard to the need to take additional measures to protect the population and infrastructure from natural disasters, the Council of Ministers adopted at its meeting on 11 February this year the report on the award of the Minister of Agriculture and Food to undertake an increase in protective forests by 103 thousand. hectares of state and forest areas. This is a double increase in the current regime of protective forests. These forests are located on highly inclined terrains, around water currents, infrastructure facilities and settlements. They're strictly individualized territories. This is a preventive measure to prevent disaster and human flooding victims from occurring. The Forest Executive Agency must take the necessary action under the Forest Act and its implementing regulations. A procedure for making an electronic log for the wood processing sites has been conducted. The assignment and procedure for the introduction of electronic transport tickets for the transport of wood by the end of June 2015 will be prepared. This will complete the process for the development and implementation of a comprehensive system for the online control of the electronic tickets issued for the transport of round and processed wood. It will allow the traceability of timber products from the temporary storage site in the forest until exit from the processing sites. It is implemented by the respective Deputy Minister time schedule for entering a marking with additional plates with a unique identification number. We started this procedure as early as the end of November. It provides for the measure to cover the assortments initially mined in the state forests and subsequently in the municipal and non-state forests. In January and early February this year, 18 state forest and hunting farms piloted procedures and contracts for the long-term allocation of timber production sites were concluded. The aim is to improve labour conditions and technological renewal in forests and reduce the grey sector. The process continues and will certainly lead to an increase in business security, which will hinder the development of known vicious practices in the sector. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food also decided to speed up the process of certification of state forests. The aim is for certified forests to reach 80% at the end of this year from the currently certified 25%. With this action, the State as the owner of forests voluntarily allows independent international environmental control of the quality of forest activities under objective, transparent principles and measurable indicators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u448	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. Boris Yachev, you have the opportunity to specify up to two questions to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u449	Thank you, Madam Secretary. My question was made at the beginning of February. Days after that came out and the report of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in which this statistics was reduced, part of which we heard just now. With regard to this report, I have several specific questions which are: Do you have a view of increasing mobile teams at the moment they are 173, and increasing their efficiency? The teams that do checks and fight illegal logging? Do you see the problem of increasing the available forest inspectors about 400 in number, and increasing their qualifications?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u450	Just to remind you that the questions can be up to two. If you could unite them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u451	They're connected. This is a thematic issue, it is related to the measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u452	Once the Minister has accepted, proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u453	You have reported that inspections have been carried out at the wood extraction sites. Will checks or inspections also be carried out in wood processing sites, which is actually a problem that is closely related to illegal logging? That's the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u454	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u455	Dear Mr. Yachev, in response to these two additional questions, I would rather say the following. Among the measures that I have defined, in principle, one is linked to an increase in human resources to control activities. There, however, we are limited with the possibility of paying these forest inspectors. The second point is local dependence, especially in poor areas, between individual authorities, which hinders effective control. You know that a year ago, the mobile control unit was closed, which was at the Forest Executive Agency and which was walking in places as an absolutely independent body and unaware of local dependencies. We're going to rebuild it. As regards the Forest Executive Agency for Forest Inspectors. The problem is that wages are really absolutely non-motivating for independent control and we are looking for more opportunities for up-to-date salaries in view of the risk that forest inspectors are taking, because sometimes we also have to address the law enforcement authorities in order to be able to exercise control. The second package of measures that I have tried to explain is related to the deployment of technologies to eliminate the subjective element in front of control so that it can be effective, namely this electronic system with which it will be tracked online at any time the movement of timber, electronic and vehicle tickets. They will be part of this system and the whole system in terms of electronic tracking and marking of timber and wood that is extracted. Once again, I would like to stress that in Bulgaria, according to my judgment, the state forests are generally the best controlled and managed. Statistics show what percentage of wood is harvested according to the forestry plans, and it is less than the plan of these business plans. The problem is in the areas that are more economically backward, the problem is also in companies that sometimes enjoy protections, this yield to be carried out as it is on a lesotod plan. At the moment, with the cooked regulations, we will make them twice as intense and we will certainly not have the approval of the relevant operators who are working. It is more important that this is then carried out in a way that prevents the logging of forests to the extent that this already affects the relevant infrastructure and population. As a total volume and as a yield of 6.4 million ccs per year, 900 thousand ccs is the one being exported. We can limit by many measures the size of this extracted wood and still remain the question of it being mined according to the forestry plans and in a way that does not destroy the forest. That's the main problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u456	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like to express your attitude to the answer, Mr. Yachev? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u457	I am satisfied even more than the answer to the additional question because it has become clear in the specific that what has actually been done in these three months is simply a preparatory work and a serious analysis, serious work with regard to specific measures that are already really limiting illegal logging ahead. As you have pointed out, they are also related to the human factor, to the administrative capacity, to improving the qualifications and, of course, to finding appropriate financial resources to carry out these reforms. However, that is not a question, since I have already exhausted the possibility of questions, what I had affected in asking as part two is also related to the control of the export of illegal logging. I remind you that within just two days, in practice, three of the eight parliamentary political formations represented in the Forty-third National Assembly tabled proposals relating to legislative initiatives relating to limiting timber exports. The patriotic front submitted only a week ago a draft decision by the National Assembly to impose a three-month moratorium on exports of raw wood. Subsequently, colleagues from GERB also announced that they are preparing legislative initiatives that will be tabled as a bill. The reformation bloc literally the next day also submitted a draft decision by the National Assembly for a moratorium. At the same time, a position of your ministry and your personal position was also announced that you do not believe that the moratorium on timber exports will solve the illegal logging issue. Since I don't have a chance to ask a question, I still express it as an opinion...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u458	Your time is up. If I may be brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u459	Do you think that if the National Assembly did make such a decision you, as Minister, would support?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u460	Just to remind you, you must express your attitude. Madame Minister can't answer you. Perhaps you can then ask the question in the couloirs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u461	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u462	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. We'll continue with the next question. He is from the People's Representative Stefan Georgiev Kenov regarding the suspension of the activities of territorial units of the UNDP Sliven Here you are, Mr. Kenov, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u463	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Secretary! The media over the past weeks has shown that three of the territorial divisions of the southeastern state enterprises Sliven, namely the state forest farms Zvezdets, Malko Tarnovo and Gramatikovo, are being suspended. The annual revenues of the three farms are between five and six million levs. We understand that the reasons for stopping logging and transporting on the territory of the farms, that the trucks that drive wood from these areas will not break and pave the roads. Given that the biggest damage to the villages is being done precisely during the summer months, and as far as I understand it, the suspension has been announced precisely, I think by the end of May. [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] With the work stopped around 150 people would be left without remuneration because there was talk of unpaid leave; dozens of small businesses would be out of work. The Strandja region is one of the least developed in the country and any such action can lead to collapse in the economy of this region. Such an action cannot have no impact on the economy in Burgas region. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, you exercise the state's right to property in the state enterprise. Please answer me what led to the need to stop the work of three forestry farms? What will be the losses for the state enterprise? What action have you taken with regard to the orders of the Director of UNDP Sliven? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u464	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u465	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kenov, in response to the increased public interest during the past week, including the signal sent by the mayor of Malko Tarnovo for uncontrolled logging, the destruction of the municipal roads of Strandzha, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food announced additional measures for sustainable and multifunctional forest management. By my order of 9 February 2015, restrictions were introduced on the use of forest roads when they were over-wet. It is stated that the transport of wood harvested from the forest areas.. state municipal property is to be carried out primarily only during periods where this will not result in damage and destruction of permanent forest roads without pavement. The measures taken so far aim to strengthen the control by the competent authorities of the IAG and its structures, as well as state-owned enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Law on the strict application of the requirements of art. 232 of the same in the case of logging and removal of wood to temporary storage. It is also not permitted to use a technique which is not registered and has not undergone the relevant mandatory reviews under the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. As a result of the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the basis of art. 172, para. 1, t. On 10 February 2015, the Director of the South-Eastern State Enterprise Sliven issued an order to stop the work in the timber sites in the territory of the State Industry Zvezdetz, Malko Tarnovo and the State-owned Chamber of Commerce, Gramatikovo, in the process of subtraction and transport of the wood until further notice, depending on the weather situation in the region. It should be noted that the order issued to the Director of the South East State Enterprise in the town of Sliven is temporary in nature and, when the conditions for the transport of wood are improved, it will be cancelled or amended. The economic losses of the three territorial divisions since the temporary suspension of timber extraction and transport for the restoration and repair of the damaged forest road network after removal and the transport of wood on wet forest roads may be many times greater than those potentially accumulated during the short period of cessation of timber activity. I believe that the actions of the Director of the South East State Enterprise Sliven are legal and are related to the policy pursued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with regard to sustainable and multifunctional forest management, as well as the preservation of existing road infrastructure. By the way, the orders concerning the bans on the use of forest infrastructure, when it has over-wet soils, in order not to destroy it, apply to everyone. That's what we introduced after the last rain. In addition, the mayor of Malko Turnovo municipality personally from the cameras of the National Television urged to stop, so please specify what we should do, in the circle are the joke. I think that is why I also said in response to the previous MP: it is very clear, honourable Members, that we are clearly aware by making decisions about what they lead to. Our aim is for forests to be used professionally, according to the forestry plans, so that there are no illegal logging, no unauthorised use. Each year the volume of wood is generally increased due to less logging but in areas that are accessible, including organised groups for illegal extraction, which are close to infrastructure sites that are areas with protective functions. There the logging and activities must be nature-friendly, respectively the property and health of the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u466	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kenov, you have an opportunity for a line. It's a question, not a question, so you have to replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u467	Dear Mr. Vice-President, ladies ministers! Madam Minister, perhaps not the whole country, but a very large part of the people in this room, perhaps a large part of the Ministry and the Executive Forest Agency know why this problem has come to light. The problem in Malko Tarnovo came because the state recovered the forests, which were restored by a decision of the Land Commission of the municipality of Malko Tarnovo. The mayor took one action against the state by cutting the whole work of the foresters in Strandja, mass all the foresters who worked at the State Agency, who work in state enterprises, private forestry workers are declared part of some forest mafia. At the same time, over the last two or three years, these forest farms have mastered tens of thousands of snow cubes. And that really was an achievement because this broken wood could have stayed in the woods, rotted, and these people actually pulled out the wood, sold it and made a profit for the state. And instead of being praised for doing this, we are waving them back and forth, including fellow politicians, on the media that this is the forest mafia in Bulgaria and how bad they are doing their job. I believe that both politicians and society are indebted to these people. The foresters in Bulgaria do not operate, they have created the Bulgarian forest for the last 130 years. No one has thanked these people in terms of time nor the overtime they were paid, nor the insane working day, nor the low wages over the years. You just said the problem was 20 years ago. It's not the problem... The problem has come from 2009. You are currently buying out foreign sins and performing a reform in the forest sector, which was made by your predecessor Naydenov and it appears that it is not working. There's no way this thing can take on one side, on one hand, control... That's where the problem comes from.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u468	Thank you, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u469	The best control was at the time when...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u470	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u471	...when Gen. Borisov was Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior! Take an example from when the gendarme was with the forest guards on the streets and really had control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u472	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u473	First, Dear Mr. Kenov, just to say that in the forest territory of the municipality of Malko Tarnovo, the state rules under a judgment, as you know, so that we have not taken anything, we are simply executing a judgment in a case which has been registered and is finished. I am pleased, of course, that there is a fellow MP who, against the backdrop of many colleagues covered by public speaking, which sometimes does not correspond with science and factology, protects and the good things that have been done. I would just like to add that on the occasion of the difficulties we face in controlling the activities in the forest areas in some areas in Bulgaria, we have concluded an agreement with the Ministry of Interior with the idea and we already have such a practice, we have addressed the Gendarmerie for assistance for joint checks in these areas.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u474	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We'll continue with the next question. He is from the National Representative Korman Yakubov Ismailov regarding the establishment of the Municipal Service in the town of Sarnitsa.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Minister! By Decree No 177 of 22 July 2014 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, which entered into force from 1 January 2015, the town of Sarnitsa, together with the villages of Medenni Polyani and Pobit kam are divided into the municipality of Sarnitsa. Administrative territorial change aims at maximum remoteness of settlements from the uniting centre not to be more than 40 km. In order to improve the quality of the administrative service of the population in these settlements in the agricultural sector, the municipality of Sarnitsa requires the establishment of the Municipal Service of Agriculture in the newly established municipality of Sarnitsa. Dear Mrs. Taneva, what actions have been taken by the Ministry responsible for the establishment of the Municipal Service of the City of Sarnitsa in order to improve the quality of the administrative service of the population in the sector of agriculture in the newly formed municipality?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u476	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov, for the tight question. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u477	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ismailov, as you know with Decree No 3 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria from 13 January 2015 are scheduled new elections for municipal councilors and mayor of Sarnitsa Municipality, which will be held on 15 March 2015. The total area of the three lands of the municipality of Sarnitsa is the town of Sarnitsa, the land of the village of Pobit stone and the village of Medeni Polyani, is 198 thousand. Dka, of which 185 thousand. They are state and municipal property, mainly a forest fund. It's 19,000 in the agricultural fund. Dka. A total of 87 farmers were registered in the three lands of the newly established municipality in 2014, 79 in the town of Sarnitsa and 8 in the village of Medeni Polyani. There are no registered farmers in the village of Pobit stone. Of course, this does not mean that there are no individuals living there and doing agricultural activities. As you know, the registration obligation as a farmer has entered into force for this company for those farmers who wish to apply for European subsidies on direct payments. In total, 624 livestock holdings were registered with 1150 cattle, 413 small ruminants, 35 horses. The establishment of a new administrative unit in the town of Sarnitsa will also give rise to the need for an increase in the state number of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development and Pazardzhik, which is also, of course, related to the means of maintenance and salaries. The town of Sarnitsa, the village of Pobit stone and the village of Medeni Polyani are 46, 35 and 45 km away from the former municipal center of Velingrad, where is the headquarters of the municipal office of agriculture. The distance is definitely large enough and for the purpose of good and effective service of farmers it is good to define the Municipal Service of the Regional Directorate of the Agricultural Directorate of Pazardzhik. We will also have the relevant talks with the representatives of the local authorities so that this unit is in number and composition, which will not affect the activities of the other municipal services, and at the same time will be sufficient to serve the farmers that I have defined and are located in the municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u478	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, dear Mr. Ismailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, one of the objectives of my question was to draw your attention to the municipality. That is, in order for the Ministry to adequately and in time to prepare itself, because the processes are progressing, and the population of this municipality, like the entire Bulgarian population in all municipalities, expects adequate service. So we will monitor your actions in this direction. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u480	Would you like a douche bag? No. Thank you. We continue with a question from the National Representative Maya Bozhidarova Manolova regarding applying farmers for payments under the Single Area Payment Scheme in 2015. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u481	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Taneva, with amendments to the Agricultural Aid Act, which we made in the previous Parliament and which you also supported, farmers who want direct payments on an area must go through prior registration. That is to say to state the properties for which they will request a single area payment, and in that registration also indicate the legal basis of their request. I believe that this was the right step because this would end the abuses of foreign lands and literally draining the Fund for payments to people who use properties without legal basis. However, by 1 October a single register had to be drawn up to include all properties. Due to the inaction of the caretaker government, this did not happen and farmers at the beginning of this year found themselves in a hypothesis in which they were unable to register by the end of February the legal grounds of their requests for single area payment. Why is that a problem? For example, in Kyustendilska municipality only in the land of a village I give for example the village of Shishkovtsi, there are 2 thousand. The property with different owners and the mayor, in order to help farmers, had to issue 2 thousand. Certificates of heirs. For example, a farmer who processes 1000 acres of area is in the hypothesis that only one of the 160 decares will present 70 certificates for heirs because these 160 decares are distributed into 95 properties that have 70 different owners...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u482	Please, the question, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u483	...or for all his 1000 acres he must present certificates of heirs to 500 properties [[Signature by the President that time has run out]] , an action which proves impossible for farmers. My question to you is: what measures will you take to make it possible for farmers to declare their requests for direct area payments?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u484	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u485	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I will not present my prepared answer, as you and I, for the question you are asking me, have spoken before my turn to parliamentary control. You can check that, specifically for the specific case, we have issued the relevant instructions in order to ease and remove the obligation to issue certificates to heirs, now to register the legal bases, by applying one declaration with the relevant texts and then by verification it will be possible to require them. I would like to say a few words in general as a reply and commentary on your exhibition in the questions. Yes, it is, the legal basis was adopted last year and was supported by us as GERB, as opposition. This was really pressing, it had to happen sooner or later. I just want to say why it was important. According to preliminary calculations and analyses for the last campaign 2014 for the first payment, which you know is paid now January, between 85 million and 100 million BGN. subsidies are paid on agricultural areas for which there is no legal basis or for which the corresponding rents are not paid. This puts farmers who are legally entitled to pay their rents and those who do not pay rents. At the same time, 3.8 million were requested for support for 2014. hectares of area applied for in Brussels 3,49. What's that got to? Up to a rate reduction for the respective area with close to BGN 3 What is the situation at the moment, from the beginning of our mandate, when we said that we would apply the legal basis voted on last year in your mandate and we should catch up with the legal basis registration process? As of yesterday, when training at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food was held by all directors of the Regional Administration of Agriculture and some municipal leaders, a little over 3.3 million were registered. hectares of agricultural areas, as we have started with well below 3 million. the hectares of this activity. The services are busy, it's a fact, but it's a job that has to be done over the course of a year. It is simply that everyone thought that once again and again the legal basis as criteria for supporting and requesting support areas would be postponed. So this volume of work should be caught up. I am using this case to thank all MPs for the fact that the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land was voted in Parliament, which allowed the extension of the period for registration of the legal bases to the last possible day. I think that in terms of having this kind of campaign to take place, we also have your consent, and ultimately you were the initiators for its support. We have initiated the instructions and they are applied by the municipal services on the occasion of relief for the requirement of certificates of heirs. If there is another such case and these instructions are not followed, when you inform me, you know that I will immediately take action.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u486	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You used more time, but it was a matter of gratitude to the MPs, and I think that was a good thing. Mrs. Manolova, come in for a line, although I understand that you received some sort of answer in the couloirs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u487	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mrs. Taneva! The fact is that we had this conversation with you a month ago, as it was important to react in support of farmers who wanted to register under the area direct payments scheme. The fact is that you and the deputy minister reacted in a timely manner to resolve this huge problem, especially for farmers from regions such as Kyustendil, where the land is sufficiently fragmented and it was impossible enough for them to supply the necessary certificates for heirs in due time. However, I would like to draw your attention to something that farmers pointed out to me yesterday. The fact is that you have changed the internal order to present a certificate of heirs with a declaration of heirs, which somewhat eases the procedure, but if you compare this declaration of heirs [[shows forms of declaration and request]] with the request to issue a certificate of heirs, they are practically identical. That is, one landlord of the property is obliged in this declaration to practically indicate all the data that contains the certificate of heirs, all the heirs with the CNN, with the addresses, with the death certificate, declaring that the false data will be criminally liable. According to farmers in Kyustendil Municipality this is not possible. The request is that, if you wish to assist in ordering farmers, these declarations be in the form of a declaration of hereditary link, that is, the landlord of the property of a farmer, or one who provides one for use under a lease, be committed to a declaration, declare that he is the successor of the owner of the property in question. Very often, the indication of the complete data set proves impossible, and at least these people will be in the hypothesis of being forced to declare data for which they are not sure, under fear of criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u488	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u489	The deadlines are extremely short and if you want to end up in favour of farmers, you can change the requirements of this declaration. Thank you for your quick reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u490	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u491	Dear Mrs. Manolova, now that I am back here at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I will see how we can alleviate the data in this declaration, but we should always rely on the fact that we must have the relevant data, including, therefore, avoid being falsely content by farmers who are not conscientious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u492	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We conclude with a final question to you by the esteemed MP Yavor Iliev Haytov regarding the management of agricultural land from the Professional Agricultural High School of H. Y. Vaptsarov, town of Byala Slatina. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Professional Agrotechnical High School "N." J. Vaptsarov, town of Byala Slatina until September 2013 processed 600 acres of land needed to conduct the production practice of the students. From this land 74 decares were granted to the school by the State Land Fund with order No RD-46-432 from 1 June 2012 to the Minister of Agriculture and the rest was municipal property and was used for the needs of the school for 15 years. As of September 2013, the Municipality of Byala Slatina has refused to renew the land use contract, which is municipal property. For the period September 2013 to September 2014, written correspondence was held with the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture of Vratsa and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as a request for the properties described below in the municipality of Byala Slatina, which can be used for the implementation of the production practice in the Professional Agro-School High School. J. Vaptsarov. According to art. 47, para. 2 of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, to be provided for the needs of the school. I will not read in detail each of the properties, but in general they are about 120 decares in the land of the village of Byrdarski Geran and about 230 decares in the land of the village of Popitsa. My question, Madam Minister, is: is there any possibility that the specified terrains or other such from the State Land Fund may be provided for use by the Professional Agricultural High School of H. J. Vaptsarov "The town of Byala Slatina, with which students really learn how to process land and not learn agricultural science in front of the black chalkboard?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u494	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u495	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! On the basis of the provisions of art. 24, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 24b of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, it is within the power of the Minister of Agriculture and Food to provide with an order for free use agricultural land property of the State Land Fund. These lands shall be granted to scientific, scientific and educational establishments, to the Ministry of Transport, to prisons, to seed and tribal farms, orchards, Pepiniers and matrices, to forest nurseries and to hunting farms, as well as to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in so far as they are necessary for their activity. The educational establishments, including the Professional Agrotechnical School in the town of Byala Slatina, are from the circle of the entities to which, if necessary, the existence of free land from the State Land Fund can be provided for free of charge. I should point out that the primary purpose of the land of the State Land Fund is their use for agricultural purposes. Free of disposal properties shall be provided annually for retrieving or renting, by means of auction or competition. All natural persons, sole traders and legal persons who are registered as farmers and meet all other requirements listed in art. 47c, para. 1 of the Rules on Law Enforcement. On 4 December 2014, a letter from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food from the Director of the High School requested to be provided for the needs of the high school in the village of Burdarski Geran 118 decare and in the village of Popitsa 228 decare of the State Land Fund was assigned to the Regional Directorate of Agriculture. In its opinion of 15 December 2014, the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development stated that the properties of the request of the high school were rented after the auction of the first tender session, with a secret bid for the granting of free agricultural land by the State Land Fund in Vratsa for the 2014/2015 business year. The properties in the lands of the village of Byala Slatina are currently not available. They can be provided in accordance with art. 24b, para. 1 of the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, for the needs of the professional high school in the town of Byala Slatina, after the end of the business year. The Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development (SOC) has informed the Ministry of Agriculture and Food about the state of the specific properties that have been requested. In principle, there is no problem for other vacant properties, and not for those described, to be provided for use.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u496	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Mr. Haytov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, before you became a publicist, a politician and a minister, I found that you are a successful manager. You can't be like that without being educated without being properly prepared. I believe that the fastest way to find an opportunity for this Agrotechnical High School to get the land it wants to follow. It is true that in the Northwest, the agricultural business remains one of the few things in which people can work and seek some livelihood. Perhaps both the interest of tenants and other advice is enormous. But we are all talking about the care for the Northwest, in particular it is noted in your management program and you, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, have the chance to demonstrate a care, a really public commitment to the problems of this area, because it is one of the small schools where specialized staff are being trained in the sector. This high school, be assured, needs this land and after the end of the business year I will follow carefully and enter all kinds of documents that really need students and the management of the high school to get this land so we don't become a laughing stock. Because really farming doesn't learn with chalk in front of the blackboard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u498	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Madam Minister, you have also received compliments you can complete parliamentary control today with the back of Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u499	Dear Mr. Haytov, I said that the lands that have been requested are simply not free. We have two options to wait for the business year to expire and at the end of the year to dedicate the requested properties, or to look for others elsewhere where there is free. So it's also a matter of request from the principal herself. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will have the will to fulfill the desire for what is possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u500	Thank you, Minister Taneva. With this, the questions to you are exhausted. We wish you a peaceful evening! We continue with the next set of questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The first question is from the MP Filip Stefanov Popov on the Water Cycle Project of Vidin. Here you are, Mr. Popov, to ask your question to Minister Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u501	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Vidin is a sublime, noble and beautiful city. Vidin is the door of Bulgaria from Europe and to Europe. Unfortunately, however, these claims do not correspond to the actual situation at the moment in Vidin. My wish, and all Vidin's, is that Vidin really has a European look. Unfortunately, at the moment the streets of the city are in an outrageous state, the same are excavated without restoring the road flooring. Currently the streets are muddy, with holes, it is difficult to reach from one part of the city to another, and when the weather is dry and warm, it is an unimaginable dust that breathes all the Vidin and all the children in Vidin. So my question to you is: what stage is the project for the construction of a water cycle and a treatment plant? When will it be finished? Is Vidin Municipality in danger of failing to implement the project and losing European funds and for what reasons? The last part of my question has already been answered, namely with these dug streets are we going to enter the winter period, and it is already at its end, and it is obvious that with these dug streets we will enter the summer period as well. That's my question to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u502	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u503	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! The project "Rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and sewerage system in Vidin" is implemented under a signed grant agreement of 26 November 2012 amounting to a total of 72 million. BGN, which has an initial period of execution of 27 months from the date of signature, i.e. until 26 February This Decision shall The project is implemented by the Municipality of Vidin, nine contracts with contractors are signed, of which two construction contracts for construction of water networks and construction of a sewage treatment plant, as well as contracts for the exercise of construction supervision, copyright supervision, external technical assistance for project management, publicity and audit. An Additional Agreement of 17 December 2014 extending the initial deadline for the implementation of the project activities until 31 October 2015 and the conclusion of the grant agreement by 31 March 2016 respectively. The extension of the deadline will contribute to the overall implementation of the project within the eligibility deadlines for the expenditure under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013 and will reduce the risk of loss of European funds. With regard to road surface restoration, under the terms of the call for grants under Operational Programme Restoration takes place at the final stage of completion of all provided construction works in a given section. The project's expenditure to be recovered at this time amounts to 39,4 million. BGN, currently reimbursed to the municipality is 35 million. BGN, i.e. 51% of the agreed grant. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. are in the process of processing and the finalisation and payment to the beneficiary is imminent. Due to the advanced winter season and the nature of the remaining construction and installation activities, it is not possible for the latter to be implemented during the winter period due to compliance with the technological rules for construction and construction works, as well as the presence of explicit prohibitions arising from the technical specification of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u504	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I hope that this extension of the deadline for the implementation of this project will be the last and you as Minister of Environment and Water to monitor and monitor closely the process and its implementation, of course, to show your concern to the Ministry and the State for Vidin's citizens, because there is a feeling in Vidin that Vidin is left outside Bulgaria. I hope you will strengthen your control functions in the implementation of this project and indeed it will be completed as it should and be appropriate for such a worthy city as Vidin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u506	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u507	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Popov! Certainly the project is extremely important, it is undoubtedly one of the projects that will contribute to the achievement of our country's objectives of compliance with environmental legislation, creating better conditions for our citizens and, of course, improving the economic environment. In this sense, both this and all other projects that are implemented under the Operational Programme "Environment" are monitored continuously by the Ministry and the Managing Authority we make every effort to compensate together with the municipalities the delay that happened due to the suspension of the Operational Programme. Continuous meetings with project management teams and the municipality shall be held. The latest one with Vidin Municipality was held at the end of January, so we are following progress and we really hope that our joint efforts will lead to the successful finalisation of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u508	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Yanaki Stoilov about building a cell in the municipal waste depot in Pazardzhik. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u509	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! The problem with the solid municipal waste depot near Pazardzhik is a high-end volume, combustions, self-combustibles. The situation of those living in the surrounding settlements, especially in the village of Kapitan Dimitrievo, is unbearable. Poisonous gases are released, morbidity is increased, including cancer. Two mandates of the local government in Pazardzhik have been wasted on solving this issue. The possibility of European funding is irrevocably missed. People pay for a fictitious system for separate collection and use of waste. A national problem, that is, they pay to be poisoned. I specifically used a color printer to see episodes of what a dump is, how periodically people with carts drag junk and how they cross even beyond the road, which is already the boundary of the depot. [[Shows photos.]] As far as I am aware, a proposal has recently been made for funding under the PUPOS for a cell and a scale, of course, with the usual increase in the cost of the project for such cases. I don't know if it involves reclamation. This question has been put by my fellow Members in the previous Parliament, but it is in exactly the same state that I am asking it now. So I would like you to very definitely say will any action be taken to build a cell and a scale in the solid household waste depot? Are funds planned to reclamate the depot? Is there a force in Bulgaria that in any way influences the solution of this issue because I know that it is both regional and municipal and state! You know well what the consequences are that he continues to be in this state. I would like to hear your opinion and what actions should be taken by all of us to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u510	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u511	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoilov! Undoubtedly chronic problem. Short-term chronology. In July 2008 in the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in Pazardzhik was notified of an in-kind intention to build a regional waste depot, site 16, Aleko Konstantinovo village. A positive environmental impact assessment decision was issued in 2012. I would like to assure you that since the start of the project for the construction of the regional system, the Ministry of Environment and Water has been constantly assisting all municipalities, including Pazardzhik Municipality, which is a leading municipality for the construction of this regional system, in order to realise the investment intention. The project for the regional waste management system for Pazardzhik region, which includes the municipalities Pazardzhik, Peshtera, Belovo, Lesichovo, Bratsigovo, Septemvri, Rakitovo, Batak and Velingrad, was intended for financing under the Operational Programme However, in order to ensure the necessary financial resources, as an expression of the State's support for the resolution of this problem, for the implementation of the project on 27 February 2013. The Management Board of the Environmental Action Management Organisation decided, in principle, to finance a single cell, a scale and the necessary service infrastructure of several regional depots, including for the Pazardzhik region. The delay in the preparation of the project documentation is due, on the one hand, to a delay in Pazardzhik municipality and its selected consultants in the development of the documentation, on the other hand, to the disagreement of the residents of the village of Kapitan Dimitrievo and Peshtera municipality. These sites in Kapitan Dimitrievo "Plot No 4, the unit," and the site Captain Dimitrievo, southeast, which were assessed first and second respectively in the report on the results of the preliminary selection for potential sites suitable for the construction of a depot were not supported by the local public. This delay, generated over time, led to more than five years of shortage to the final stage and finding a site for the construction of a regional depot. At present, a construction permit was issued with a date of 25 July 2014 for the construction of a regional landfill for non-hazardous waste, first cell and accompanying infrastructure. Pazardzhik Municipality has deposited an application for financing and a work project with the name of the Regional Depot for non-hazardous municipal waste, Pazardzhik region at a site in the village of Aleko Konstantinovo, which is agreed and approved in accordance with the Law on construction of the territory. The application is in a procedure for carrying out ex ante controls. A final approval of the submitted documentation is expected and then a decision to finance the depot, after which a procedure will be announced for the selection of a contractor by the municipality. With regard to the means of reclamation, given the fact that landfill reclamation projects will not be financed under the new operational programme, it is necessary to provide national funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u512	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stoilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u513	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! The case of the Pazardzhik depot may be between the emblematic how important problems for people are dragging on and not being solved. If there is any justification, it is in the conflicting interests of the municipalities, as it is a regional depot. You know that there often arise conflicts where to place it, how to organize the activity. However, there seems to be a small share of the various interests, because in how they are to be implemented both European and national funds and now the question arises who will pay for the default, because Bulgaria is under the risk not only for this depot but for many others to start paying penalty fines. Such action must be taken because what you are talking about will take between one and two years, even if the project is moved and approved, unfortunately, with national money, because it needs separate money for the cell, separately money for the reclamation. However, residents of the surrounding villages cannot say and must take action at least to preserve their health. They've written a few complaints. There is a statement adopted by the Municipal Council in Peshtera municipality. There'll probably be protests if the gassing continues. Then I will side with these people, only that perhaps all citizens should mobilize themselves and, in this case, force the institutions to do the work, because otherwise they are forced to become victims of their inaction or of other interests that dictate their behaviour. This is what I am doing as a general conclusion, which is far from just referring to the current situation, but for years back in time and explains the situation we are in. I would like to hear from you finally whether you are ready to end these practices, because we have a fictitious system for separate collection and recovery of waste, people pay several times, and finally everything is poured into these dumps where secondary junk is extracted, you know what primitive methods, and perhaps some of these people rely on the poorest to serve their interests in view of other needs they need to satisfy in this miserable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u514	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here's your coat, Madame Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u515	Mr. Stoilov, the problem is undoubtedly in the regions where not enough effort has been made. Undoubtedly, the problem is historical, as it has become clear here. However, this project was launched through 2008 At present, things have not happened so as to have a modern and compliant regional depot. The efforts of the Ministry of Environment and Water are aimed at strengthening control regarding the actions to be taken by municipalities. The institutions responsible for conducting the waste management policy at local level ensure that the funds are financed the construction of these facilities both under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013 and under the new operational programme, where there are again nearly 400 million. lv. for building facilities aimed at achieving more ambitious levels in terms of recycling and pre-treatment of waste. The efforts are also aimed at speeding up the pace of these projects, because there has undoubtedly been a delay, especially in the past year. This delay in the Operational Programme, under which 20 regional systems have been built over a year, can hardly be compensated within two months, but all efforts are aimed at narrowing the schedules, working together with municipalities so that they can finish the construction activities in time. I hope that our entire society, all institutions, will support these processes in order to cope with this serious task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u516	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The last question to Mrs. Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water, is in today's parliamentary control by the MP Petar Petrov about the environmentally friendly disposal of pesticides and other plant protection products. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! In the area of the village of Dragovishtitsa, the municipality of Kyustendil in poorly guarded and without any control warehouses are stored old, with already breaking packages of poison pesticides. The warehouses in question are full of those expired pesticides that have ever been used in agriculture. In view of the old packaging and its decomposition, pesticides are slowly entering the soil and from there into the water. The most bizarre thing is that the warehouses are without lightning. These are old agricultural buildings, and if a thunderbolt accidentally hits such a building, it can be blown up with many environmental consequences. The total amount of pesticides is about 130 tonnes, about 265 cubic metres respectively. m. Local district management and the municipality have acted on this problem, but given the rapid shifts of governments and regional governors, they have not reached its resolution. There was some expected funding by the end of 2014 from a Swiss company for the disposal of these pesticides, but nothing has happened yet and no one is doing anything. The municipality cannot bear the cost of the disposal of these hazardous waste. My question to you is: what measures have been taken to eradicate the possibility of an accident?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u518	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u519	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, the control of stocks for depositable pesticides is carried out by regional environmental and water inspections, with the assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, through the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety and Regional Directorates for Food Safety, Regional and Municipal Administrations, representatives of the Fire Safety and Protection of the Population at the Ministry of Interior. According to an order of the district governor of Kyustendil in 2013, a check was carried out at the warehouse in Dragovishtitsa village, Kyustendil municipality of the interdepartmental commission with representatives of the relevant administrations. The verification showed that pesticides are stored in a massive and secure building. The warehouse is guarded 24/7, the building is of the fourth degree of fire resistance. Some of the packaging has been found to have been ripped apart, but since the floor is concrete, there is no soil contamination. There is no electrical installation built in the plant protection products storage building and the security room. In relation to non-compliances, provisions have been given by the Regional Administration of Fire Safety and the Protection of the Population,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Prescriptions are fulfilled. The Ministry of Environment and Water is not a competent authority on matters relating to fire safety. In implementation of the national policy on environmental protection and sustainable management of waste, the Ministry of Environment and Water has developed a project that applies for funding under the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme. The project for environmentally friendly disposal of unfit pesticides and other plant protection preparations has already been approved by the Swiss Confederation and is about to sign an agreement on the implementation of preventive activities amounting to 38 million. lv. Within the project will be repacked and exported for disposal of nearly 4 thousand. 380 tonnes of pesticides from state or municipal warehouses. According to the feasibility study carried out in 2013, 323 storage facilities for unfit pesticides were inventoryed on the territory of the country. A risk assessment has been carried out for each warehouse and a priority will be to disarm pesticides with expired expiration dates in municipal and state warehouses, with the highest risk of pollution of the environment and the health of the population. The warehouse in Dragovishtitsa village, Kyustendil municipality is inventoryed within the pre-project study. The same is municipal property and is covered by the project. The project started this year and has a deadline for implementation by 2019, the aim of which is the cleansing of the entire country's territory of the end-of-life pesticides. Until its implementation is responsible for maintaining the condition of the warehouse in accordance with the safety requirements is Kyustendil municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u520	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, colleague Petrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u521	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the good answer. I hope that my voters from Dragovishtitsa village will be calm both for their health and for their security.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u522	Thank you. With this the round questions to Minister Vasileva are exhausted. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer questions to Veselin Vuchkov, Minister of the Interior. The first question is from the MP Petar Slavov on the alleged attempts to illegally overcome the impeding-type facility built at the border with the Republic of Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question concerns the recorded attempts to illegally overcome the impeding-type facility built on the border with the Republic of Turkey, by illegal immigrants, including by violating its integrity, cutting, overcoming, as well as the possibilities to limit these practices. Dear Minister, in a number of media publications, information was drawn that the built-up and very expensive impeding facility is often the subject of raids by illegal immigrants who are trying to overcome it by all means, including its cutting into certain places, lifting the network in order to stab it, knocking down trees on it in order to jump over it and so on, all actions that harm it. On the other hand, border police officers often fail to respond on time to similar raids and often only find traces of the illegal immigrants already overrun. As a probable reason, it is shown that the facility itself is not equipped with sensors and/or cameras to report any attempt to intervene on it, respectively, for timely response and intersection of these attempts on time. Border guards are trying to control it by living force and through surveillance cameras along the internal perimeter along the border, which is not always possible. In this regard, I ask you, Dear Minister, to answer the following question: what is the number of attempts registered for unlawful overcoming of the facility of an obstruction of part of the border with the Republic of Turkey where the latter has been harmed in one way or another, including cut, distorted, partially deformed, clenched, clenched with fallen trees and so on? Would it increase its effectiveness if sensors and cameras were installed on the facility itself, allowing the immediate notification and response of the Border Police forces to the first contact with illegal immigrants on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u524	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u525	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the constructed engineering facility of an obstruction type at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, as is well known, is 30 km long. After its construction, there was a sharp decrease to seven times, of attempts to cross the country's territory in this section of our state border. There have been 49 attempts. I repeat, 49 attempts at illegal entry into the country through various means of overcoming this facility, and in only four of them no persons have been captured. In particular, the cases and tools are as follows: by cutting 21 cases, by covering with clothes For the effectiveness of the obstruction device, it helps to obtain forward information through the already constructed elements of an integrated monitoring system. I repeat, this is a very important additional security element, the integrated monitoring system. It is used by border police departments in Svilengrad, Elhovo and Bolyarovo. Includes two alarm and security systems located parallel to the state border in close proximity to the engineering facility. The monitoring mode is continuous and a shift of the field of vision of some of the thermal imaging cameras has been made to establish a more accurate observation perimeter. The other measures that are being implemented at the moment and helping to ensure more effective security at the facility are: a larger number of mobile patrols, the deployment of classified posts and surveillance posts, the use of patrol dogs and service dogs, the stabilisation of roads located directly along the state border line. Currently, the initial assignment for the design of the new engineering facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border of 131 km long has been prepared and separate adjustments have been made in the design part, increasing the obstruction of the facility functions. Sensor and camera monitoring systems are particularly useful for security purposes, but therefore a large financial resource is required and are not included in the task for the new facility. The equipment with sensors and the present is not foreseen. The construction of systems involving sensors and cameras to them can be implemented after the financial provision of a number of complex issues such as the lack of sources for powering installed equipment, the extremely difficult realization for wireless transmission of information, due to the crossed terrain, the great distance between the engineering facility and the location of the structures of the Directorate-General for Border Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u526	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u527	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. In practice, he confirmed my concerns and the information I had that there were many attempts and attacks on the facility itself. However, what I take into account as positive in your reply is that, as you said, I think only four cases have not been stopped, which is very good news - good news about how the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria is guarded and that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and Border Police are making really huge efforts in this regard. What I think, however, is that if the facility as it was designed and built, we all remember at the time the unpleasant situations and the information that was given that there was no regular public procurement, that almost on the Internet, there would have been no one choosing their companies there, and then there would have been a corresponding proximity to the municipal president of the BSP, that is, many suspicions that the facility was not done in the way it should have been done, probably wouldn't have had all these attempts to invade, as it would have been equipped with cameras and the authorities of the Border Police would have been able to react much faster and stop these attempts to invadeve. I say this because I think that the supply of the future facility that will actually be built may be with such cameras and sensors, and it may actually prove to be more economical for the state budget than to permanently repair the facility, because obviously once cut or damaged, it must be restored to its former form in order to be effective. This is simply as a recommendation, perhaps to bear in mind, when building the new facility to consider whether it would actually be better to provide it with such cameras and sensors and that it would actually save funds that would ultimately make the facility both more efficient and economical for the state in terms of repairing the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u528	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. You're right at the limit of the call for two minutes. Here's your coat. You don't have one. Let's move on to our next question. He is from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov on the allocation of funds needed to clean the riverbed of Kranevska river, the village of Kranevo after the great water disaster of 19 June 2014. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, it has been more than half a year since the terrible flood that has befallen the resort village of Kranevo, Dobrich region. This disaster occurred on June 19th just before the tourist season. With great effort, the hoteliers affected by the flood were able to open their tourist sites. The flood caused enormous material damage to the properties located near the river. The flood, along with the crisis in Ukraine and Russia, contributed to more than a 10% drop in tourist visits. With heavy technique was cleaned part of the trough of Kranevska river, which was quite cosmetic. The poem destroyed both pedestrian bridges that connect the two parts of the village. The same ones are still in the riverbed. Seriously is the cracking of the main bridge on which motor vehicles pass daily, as well as residents. After a meeting with the mayor of Balchik municipality, I had informed that there was no funds available to clean and restore the riverbed until now, despite the timely request of such funds. Residents of the village of Kranevo are very concerned about a new flood if the necessary measures are not taken. Minister, will you take the necessary measures to solve the problem I have put in order for the residents of the village of Kranevo to meet the new tourist season calmly, given that this is the only livelihood in this region? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u530	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Come in for an answer, Minister Vuchkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u531	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, at the beginning of October 2014, the mayor of the municipality of Balchik submitted a request for funding to the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. The full name of this request is: "Development of the riverbed of the Kranevska River, including the adjacent infrastructure, bridge facilities and pastels." The requested funds amount to BGN 764 540, of which BGN 752 540. For construction, and 12 thousand. lv. It's about designing. The request was not discussed in the Commission in 2014, due to the exhaustion of budget resources at the time of submission. Meetings were also suspended due to government change at the end of the year. In view of the fact that the flood has imposed a disaster on the territory of the municipality of Balchik, the request for financial assistance this morning under my presidency has been examined as a priority at the Commission's first meeting for this year. No objections were raised against the financing of the site and is to be approved in accordance with the procedure by an act of the Council of Ministers in accordance with art. 43 of the Public Finance Act. In addition, the assessment of the direct damage caused by the flooding in the period 19 June 2014 in the North-East and North-Central region included the data submitted by the district governor of Dobrich for damage to the infrastructure in the district and in particular for correction of the river Kranevska in the municipality of Balchik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u532	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for a cue, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u533	Mr. Minister, I am extremely pleased with your answer and I am glad that you have indeed examined this request today and the funds will be allocated. I just want to tell you, you, of course, are convinced that you have been familiar for eight months, since June until now, the resort complex of Albena has also been flooded three times. The damage is over 15 million. lv. We should also thank God that there were no accidents, both in Albena and Kranevo, because June 19th, you understand that this is the beginning of the tourist season. So we will be very grateful to you, we and the inhabitants of the village of Kranevo, and the region of Dobrich, if this thing happens and the trough is restored and cleaned. And for your information, one more thing I want to tell you is that last week, when it rained two days of pouring rain, only 20 cm had to repeat the disaster again, so really the residents are very worried and we believe that you will really take the necessary measures and do everything possible to prevent a future disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u534	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u535	I will use the right of the duplicate to inform you, through you and all the voters, regional governors, municipalities in the country, to take into account some facts. It wasn't the first time I presided over this Interdepartmental Commission. I'm first between equals. I think it may not be right for the Minister of Interior to chair her. The Commission's annual budget, which I currently chair, is 70 million. lv. To date, the demands, honourable Members, are all urgent and almost all presented as lifesaving, and are likely to be for 448 million. lv. It is very difficult to make a priority of all are important, and that is why the responsibility here and the regional governors is even greater to build their priorities in the relevant areas for which they are responsible. In any case, we are, of course, giving priority to prevention and to the most urgent costs of public infrastructure, I am stressing the public or public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u536	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Georgi Kadiev about the inaction of an employee of the Ministry of Interior who witnessed an attack on a student in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u537	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On 13 January 2015 around lunch in the yard of the 23rd elementary school, Frederic Jolio-Kurri, three persons with masks were invaded in Sofia and started self-roaring with students at the school. According to witnesses of the event, on exiting the school yard one of the masked persons struck two sticks with a baton of a nearby boy, a student in the IX class of the school, then the persons avoid. The boy falls unconscious, swallows his tongue, and only because of the rapid intervention of nearby witnesses has there been no fatal consequences. This case in itself raises questions about the security of students in schools and the role of the Ministry of Interior in ensuring the safety of these children, as well as the alarming data that the perpetrators of this act are also minors. But along with that, other circumstances are extremely disturbing. At least two witnesses to the incident say that in the immediate vicinity of the incident was a uniformed police officer who witnessed the case, but did not react in any way. Witnesses say the assailant ran past the policeman who continued to speak on his cell phone during that time. The officer does not interfere in the invasion of the masked persons in the school yard, does not interfere in the attack on the ninth grader, does not try to keep the attackers, nor does he provide first aid to the victim. Once a patrol arrives, taking witness statements, these statements shall not be included in the statement describing the inaction of the uniformed person. This speaks of the irresponsibility of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, of failure to comply with basic duties and concealing the crimes of the police officer from his colleagues. The authority of the Ministry of Interior institution is questioned and doubts are raised in how many more cases have been committed in the presence of police officers and how many more crimes are covered by solidarity of other employees of the system?! In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: how do you, as Minister, assess the situation and reaction of the Ministry of Interior officers to the case? What sanctions have been imposed on a policeman who has not prevented the committing of a crime and has not responded to a beating on a child in the eighth grade? What is the reason why at least two witnesses at the same school and an employee of a nearby establishment mention the lack of reaction from the nearby police officer and their testimony not to be included in the testimony described by the police officers who arrived at the scene? What sanctions are imposed on employees who have covered up a crime against a colleague by ignoring evidence of his lack of response? What measures has the Ministry of Interior taken to guard educational institutions in the territory of Sofia and the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u538	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u539	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kadiev! A check has been carried out in the Sofia Directorate of Interior on the case which establishes the following. On 13 January this year, a junior police inspector, a territorial service officer, visited the 23rd school and performed a physical security check on the school. After his withdrawal at a distance of 30 m from the school, the employee heard screams and saw a cluster of children. Returning to the ground, he noticed on the ground a boy in a helpless state, and two others with a mask and a baton, fleeing in the direction of the underpass of Poduene Station. CCTV footage from the school shows that the attack took place outside the yard. Initially, the policeman took action to capture the persons, but seeing that the injured boy was in severe condition, he remained close to him and immediately arranged for urgent medical assistance by means of phone 112, evidently also from the requested reference. A second police officer has also arrived at the scene, reporting on the situation in the operational part of the precinct, after which initial action has been taken to identify eyewitness witnesses and according to their data, the attackers have been identified. Pre-trial proceedings have also been initiated, its number is 88/2015. The actions of the investigation are led by a monitoring prosecutor. In the course of the verification, it is established that the officers of the order have taken the necessary action to assist the injured student, as well as measures to detect the perpetrators and their subsequent capture. School security is not only the duty of the Ministry of Interior and is carried out under the Law on Private Security Activity by traders providing the service private security activity. Schools as legal persons authorised to carry out such self-security activities may also carry out security activities. The measures taken on a daily basis by the Ministry of Interior in order not to allow incidents with students within the perimeter of the educational institutions include the establishment of the so-called offices in the districts of all educational institutions in the capital. There is an increased police presence in the rush hours between the two shifts of students both at the beginning and at the end of the school day. The officers of the order regularly take part in the meetings of the local public and security committees of the municipalities, where a line of interaction between the institutions for the benefit of children is drawn up, public order and road safety measures are identified in the areas of the schools. Meetings were held, in particular and on this occasion, by employees of the I police department with the mayor of the district of Slatina (Slatina) and the principals of schools and the manager of the security company serving the 23rd school, related to the safety of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u540	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u541	Dear Minister, in my question, I mentioned the presence of two witnesses who reveal a completely different picture of what you said. According to these two witnesses, one student from the same school, and the other employee from a nearby establishment, the policeman was in close proximity, speaking on the phone all the time at the time of the invading of these assailants, both at the time of the beating and at the time of their escape. Since these evidences have most likely not been taken into account at all and have not been reported to you since my parliamentary associate has met with one of these witnesses, I am prepared to provide you with the identity of the witness and I expect the Ministry of Interior to interrogate him, to hear his version, and then confirm what the truth is in this case. I'm happy with the rest of your answer. Indeed, the security and safety of schools is not only the work of the Ministry of Interior, but also the work of all proper authorities, as well as Sofia Municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u542	A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. Next is a question of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov asked is understood. The question remains of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on effectiveness in the prevention of terrorist acts, against crime and the protection of public order in the territory of the railway infrastructure and in the field of railway transport. Here you go. Colleagues, this will be the last question in today's control, as after the answers, Mrs. Maya Manolova and Kristian Vigenin have a question for Minister Vuchkov, who are putting off. They followed the answers to questions to Minister Hristo Ivanov. He called in for health reasons. To him were invited ministers according to the calculation of the time remaining, so because of the lack of respectable reasons of Minister Ivanov and the delay of Mrs. Manolova's question, the last question for today is Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u543	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 207 of 18 July 2014 the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior, which entered into force on 22 July 2014. According to him, the specialized unit, the Department of Transport and its 8 territorial units, the districts of Transport Police, which were at that time state-owned towards the then General Directorate of National Police, were closed. At present, the security staff has been transferred to the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior at the General Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, and the operational staff and the investigating officers have been transferred to the Ministry of Interior Directorates in the country, which, I would like to stress, does not run out of changes, but, on the contrary, deepens the problems. Practically for the same territory on a security line is responsible for the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the activity of crossing, preventing, revealing and investigating is carried out by 27 separate main structures, namely the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. I open brackets and stress that they are 27 and not 28 for the reason that the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Smolyan does not have a railway line. This means that there is no centralised structure to carry out terror prevention as a whole, as well as to coordinate and direct the activities of countering crime and protecting public order throughout the country. Moreover, on a security line and currently there is no organization and clear regulation which railway stations are covered by the forces of the gendarmerie and which should be covered and run by the regional government of the Ministry of Interior, the regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior, and for the latter no one has provided for them even the state. Dear Minister, after the closure of the Transport Police, many questions were highlighted, corresponding with the broad public interest. The lack of an adequate alternative and the clarity of the functional niche that has been released by disbanding the above-mentioned unit require clarification of the complex situation. In this regard, my questions to you are as follows: Firstly, after the closure of the Transport Police, which, by the way, is a department with longstanding history, experience and traditions, which structure of the Ministry of Interior is entrusted with the activities of preventing terrorist acts, combating crime and protecting public order in the territory of the railway infrastructure and in the field of rail transport in the country? Secondly, do you not consider that the effectiveness of this act of disbanding the specialized unit of the Department of Transport is reduced? Third, is there an update of plans for interaction and coordination of initial and urgent actions when a terrorist act or terrorist threat has been received, an IED and an malicious anonymous phone call received? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u544	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u545	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Belemezov, after the closure of the Department of Transport and Police, as you rightly pointed out to the Directorate General "National Police" and its eight territorial structures, the employees of the sectors "Countering common crime" are reassigned to the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Interior and the Directorate General "Crime Police." The employees in the public order security sectors have been reassigned to the Directorate of Gendarmerie at the General Directorate of the Security Police. The districts of Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Stara Zagora, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Mezdra and Ruse have been transformed into sectors "Conservation of public order in railway transport" to the district gendarmerie governments in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Kardzhali, Montana and Gorna Oryahovitsa on a territorial principle. For the implementation of the activities of the Ministry of Interior in the field of railway transport and railway infrastructure are created respectively Department "Consequence of crime in the transport"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Crossing terrorist acts, crisis reactions, including the receipt of a malicious telephone message or an improvised explosive device and the protection of public order in the territory of railway infrastructure and rail transport shall be carried out by the authorities of the Directorate-General of Gendarmerie. Every day according to the operational situation are guarded around 65 mobile train units and 23 stations, especially of which are Sofia, Plovdiv Gorna Oryahovitsa, Mezdra, Varna, Burgas, Ruse, Svilengrad, Dimitrovgrad and Stara Zagora. The employees' actions in these situations shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures ordered by the Ministerial Order of 18 July 2014, where the specific measures to be taken are clearly described. Countering crimes in transport is carried out and coordinated by the employees of the Department of Transport Countering crimes in the Criminal Police, by the employees of the respective regional departments and the SDVR. Regarding the question that you are raising about the effectiveness of the work following the restructuring of the Transport Police, I would remind you that I had the opportunity to speak on this issue at a hearing in the Internal Commission in Parliament. There will be a promulgation of amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, perhaps by the end of this week, respectively a change in the current Rules on the Construction and Activities of the Ministry of Interior. Then we will continue with our analysis to assess whether we need to correct something like a legal norm and as an organisation, but I think that at this stage we cannot yet give an answer because we are bound by some budgetary constraints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u546	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u547	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Minister, for your comprehensive response. I will allow myself to make my reply on the occasion of what Mr. Minister said in reverse to the chronology of his words. I would rather try to express my attitude towards the question I have asked and his attitude. I believe that the issue does not tolerate any budgetary burden in view of the fact that all employees, including on an operational level, including on a working level, have been identified in other departments of the Ministry of Interior. In fact, whether their salaries are paid by the Department of Gendarmerie or by the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, I believe that it is a matter which could be resolved very quickly. I thank you for the fact that you will initiate the continuation of calls and the taking of analytical actions with a view to whether it is appropriate to restore Transport Police. You know that we have put this issue precisely at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Then I was able to express my attitude and gratitude to you for that you as a whole are perhaps positive for the recovery of the Transport Police, including that this issue is from the competence of very serious analyses. In support of what I would like to say is that the various structures currently responsible for preventing terrorist acts, combating crime and protecting public order are extremely many, for the simple reason that all these responsibilities so far have been from the prerogatives of a single department of transport police. In my opinion, this creates the situation and the hypothesis, when there is no coordination and effectiveness between the services, the responsibility, the decision making and the development of the expertise, something that is extremely important. With regard to the second question, which I have put about the plans and whether there are updated plans, I could say that, as far as I have information, this is subject to further verification, the latest plans date from the functional existence of the Transport Police. I just want to add that everything we're talking about is forming and two disturbing facts. The first of them is how is the monitoring and operational provision of the criminal contingent on railway transport organised, as part of the contingent, notice, is passing through the territory of several general Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the country and numerous regional departments of the Ministry of Interior? The second disturbing fact for me personally is how is the registration, movement and disclosure of messages and signals of crimes committed by citizens who have fallen victim to crime and travel in passenger trains and in the area of passenger stations? I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for taking up more of your time. It is paradoxical that any crime committed on the territory of the railway infrastructure is in most cases found and taken measures in some of the subsequent or perhaps one of the last stations. In this way, there is a blur of information, a run of responsibility between the district police departments themselves and in no way defend the interests of citizens. Regarding the effectiveness with which I would like to conclude, it is extremely important that a precise analysis be carried out, but in terms of efficiency should be drawn only after a basic analysis of the state and dynamics of these processes. The results achieved with the corresponding quantitative measures shall give an objective assessment of the effectiveness of the measures and activities undertaken for the period during which the Transport Police (POL) is closed. I truly believe that if we have the opportunity to continue our dialogue with you, Mr Minister, for which I thank you once again as an attitude by you, we will have the opportunity to find the balancing points, and the balancing principles by which we can restore the Transport Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u548	And thank you, Mr. Belemezov. You've been running out of time for more than two minutes. It was an interesting conclusion, but my kindness is not limitless. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u549	I'm sure it was interesting, Mr. Chairman, even more so that the meeting was held by a former Deputy Minister of the Interior. These problems, I'm sure, stood 15 years ago at your attention. The problem with the RU "Transport police" has been experiencing different developments over the years. There is now a favourable legal environment, so to speak, that we are before the entry into force of amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which you so kindly voted on last Thursday, a new Rules of Construction and Activity. We are doing extremely many and in-depth analyses right now. We are also preparing amendments to the Rules of Procedure. There is a new Directorate-General for National Police, where this issue must be discussed and proposed, including by the newly appointed Director, of the Directorate-General for National Police, as there should be. However, there are demands, Mr. Belemezov, for the creation of many structures, including centralized in the interior ministry. Unfortunately, as a political team, we are bound by the budget. That's the only problem. We have a budget voted for wages and 935 million insurance. lv. for 2015, with which we can pay salaries to not more than 46 500 " 47 000 people. Yes, probably the structuring again of the Transport Police (CPOL) as a more self-contained and centralized unit will not involve the increase in costs, but certainly such an increase will be there. Either way, you and I will discuss this issue further in one conversation with other MPs who are interested in structural changes in the interior ministry. In the next three weeks, no more than four weeks, and this question must find its solution. After all, taking into account, of course, the important condition that we do not endanger the country's security and that we are prepared for all criminal acts on the territory of the country in the railway infrastructure and, of course, with regard to potential terrorist risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-17.u550	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. My fellow Members, due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Next regular meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m.
