ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. A procedural proposal please, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u2	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Because we all know there are serious debates ahead of us. 1 a t. 2, as far as I know, it is consensual, on behalf of all current, former and future MPs from the Shumen constituency, I propose that we exchange the two points first. 2 and then t. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u3	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u4	Madam President, I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. About three weeks we postpone the debate on the rules for holding referendums. If we continue to postpone, we will seriously compromise the authority of the referendums, and we must defend it and show that we are not afraid of holding referendums. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u5	Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal made to displace the items on the agenda of the extraordinary plenary. Vote 166 MPs: 117, against 33, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, by letter No 554-00-643, dated 17 July this year, on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were withdrawn on 21 March 2015. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports with entry No 554-01-97. Next are the signatures of Dimitar Shishkov, Nastimir Ananiev, Assoc. Borislav Velikov, Nikola Hadzhiyski, Willi Lilkov, Boyka Marinska, Borislav Milanov and Dimitar Delchev. On July 20, 2015, the National Assembly received the Commission Newsletter No 15 for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 26 November 2014. The newsletter contains information on the Commission's activities, its decisions and its report under art. 4, para. 6 of the Law for the period July 20, 2014 The Bulletin is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR THE PHILILILILIST DECISION "SHUMEN" IN THE STRUCTURAL OF THE MEDICAL UNIVERSITY "PROF." Dr. Parascev Ivanov Stoyanov Reports have been received from the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Health. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Education and Science. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the Project for a Decision for the Opening of the Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov On 10 July 2015, the Council adopted Regulation At its regular meeting, held on 15 July 2015, the Education and Science Committee examined the Project for a Decision for the Opening of Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov The meeting was attended by: Prof. Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," who presented the project, prof. Radoslav Gerchev from the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation and Assoc. Ljiljana Valcheva from the trade union High education and science at the CST. The draft decision shall be submitted on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The proposal for the opening of the Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov is on the basis of a positive assessment and accreditation project by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, according to Protocol No 16 of 11 September 2014 of the Board of Accreditation. Proof of the public importance of the project is the written support expressed by the Regional Governor of Shumen District and by the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals. With the opening of Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov (Varna) will create opportunities to prepare highly qualified personnel to meet the need for nurses and midwives in the region and in the country. The discussion was attended by the MPs Snezana Dukova, Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Mariana Georgieva. They stressed the social importance of the project and the need for specialists to open health centres on a regional basis. The project envisions training in the newly opened branch in the specialities of the regulated professions "Medician sister" and "A midwife" for the acquisition of educational and qualification degrees "Bachelor" from the professional field of health care. The NAOA's cited decision sets the training capacity of 80 students for each of the specified specialties of regulated professions. For the provision of training will be fulfilled the requirement of art. 26c, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education by providing a ten-member academic staff with a basic contract of employment. A corresponding material and technical base provided by the municipality of Shumen is provided for training in the planned subsidiary. As educational and practical training bases will be used accredited for the training of medical institutions students in the municipality of Shumen. After a vote on the draft decision with a score of 15 votes for the decision, without the opposition and the abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a decision for the opening of the Philial of Shumen, in the structure of the Medical University. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. The report of the Committee on Health will read the President of the Commission Dr. Daniela Daritkova. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the Project for a Decision for the Opening of the Philial "Shoumen', in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov At its extraordinary meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Project for a Decision for the Opening of Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Nikolay Denkov and representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by Prof. Nikolay Denkov Deputy Minister of Education and Science. He informed the Members of the National Assembly that the proposed opening of Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Varna," was at the request of the management of the higher school based on a positively assessed project by the Accreditation Board of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. The project envisions training of students to acquire an educational-qualification degree in two majors from the regulated professions "Medical Sister" and "Akusherka" from the professional field "Health Care" with a capacity of 80 students for each specialty. According to the legal requirements of the Health Act, the training of nurses and midwives shall be carried out in educational and qualification degrees under art. 42, para. 1, t. 1 (b) of the Law on Higher Education in Faculties or branches of Higher Schools, which received accreditation under the Law on Higher Education. At present, the Medical University of Varna has a program accreditation for the above-mentioned specialities of regulated professions of the educational and qualification degree of the Bachelor's regular form of training, valid until 7 February 2018. According to the project for the opening of Philial, Shumen, in the structure of the Medical University Varna, is provided a 10-member academic staff of a major contract of employment. In view of the stated, the academic staff of the subsidiary shall comply with the requirement of art. 26c, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education. For the needs of the new structure is provided a corresponding material and technical base, and for this purpose the municipality of Shumen has provided for a period of 10 years municipal property a building of the Regional Dispanser for pneumothsiatric diseases. Two lecture halls, two seminar halls, three practical offices, a computer hall, a library, a sports hall, as well as offices for teachers and administration are equipped. The training facilities of accredited medical institutions in the municipality of Shumen will be used for the conduct of practical training of the students. With the opening of Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov "Varna" will provide new opportunities for the preparation of highly qualified specialists, which is a positive step in the process of implementing the national policy for meeting the needs of the population of health care, as well as support for regional priorities and policies. Support for the proposed draft decision was expressed by representatives of the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals. The members of the Health Commission united in their opinions and expressed support for the proposed draft decision. In the context of the discussion, the sustainable trend of shortage of nurses and midwives in the national healthcare system was also noted, as many of them focus on looking for work abroad. According to the opinion of the Members of the National Assembly, statistics should be kept regarding the implementation of health care professionals, after completion of their training and measures aimed at remaining to practice in Bulgaria should be taken. On that note, Professor. Denkov said there are statistics available for the period 2009 - 2013 according to which the graduates of professional care are 4210, of which the unemployed are 2.28 percent and 81% are included in the insurance system in Bulgaria of average insurance income 719 BGN. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov.... Varna, No 502-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 July 2015.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u9	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Debates are open. Anyone? I won't. Debates closed. We vote. ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the opening of Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED He opened Philial "Shoumen," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov We vote, fellow Members. Vote 154 MPs: 152 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE NEXT PARTICIPATION OF THE CIVILS IN THE STATE POWERS AND LOCAL REPRESENTATION, No 554-01-99. The bill was submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2015. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. I recall that the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 2. That's a vote. Next is a proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov, but this to be read by the President of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Proposal of the MP Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs: A new § 3 is being created. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10: (a) in para. 1, t. 5, the number (b) in para. 2 the number "sixty five hundred thousand" is replaced by three hundred thousand. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: screated § 2a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall 1. In para. 1, t. 1 and the expression "one-five' is replaced by "one-six-six'. 2. In para. 1, t. 4 and the expression "one fiveth" is replaced by the expression "one tenth." 3. In para. 1, t. 5 and the expression "Supplied not less than 200 000 signatures of citizens with electoral rights" shall be replaced by "Supplied not less than 75 000 signatures of citizens with electoral rights" and a sentence of the second sentence shall be added. The signatures of citizens with permanent address registration from one area shall not represent more than 50% of all signatures. 4. In para. The 4th number is replaced by the 200,000 and the second sentence is added: The signature of citizens with permanent address registration from one area cannot represent more than 50% of all entries. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov: screated § 2a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2, the number "sixty five hundred thousand" is replaced by four hundred thousand. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2, the number "sixty five hundred thousand" is replaced by four
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The People's Representative Mariana Todorova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am pleased that, by virtue of my being an importer, I have the opportunity to make some points first, as I expect the debate to be distorted again and to go in another direction. In the previous debates, we have indeed seen that the subject of the Bill was not discussed, which is to choose new rules on which referendums are to be held, but many other topics were interpreted. This was intended to wear out, waste, belittle and corrupt the issue of referendums. The discussion went in the direction of the suggestion that referendums are dangerous, that, you see, irresponsible government through them are hiding behind the back of the people that this is how the architecture and the future of the European Union are being questioned, that referendums are being conducted on conjunctural and momentary emotions. In this way, an artificially created original sin was waged for the referendum and the idea of the sovereign right and will of a people to rule on a subject was challenged. However, I am interested in how all political entities during election campaigns are flirting with the people and trying to gain their sympathies when they interpret the results of the elections, whether good or bad, always rely on the wisdom of the people and say: "This is the way the people decide, that is why the parliamentary configuration is, and only when referendums are being held we do not want to delegate the rights of these people to speak on a subject. So, rather today, I would like to say that the vote on this bill will not be on the axis of left, centre and right, but rather on the basis of a status quo or protection of change. Today we will have the opportunity to count and mark. And specifically to our proposal, it is about reducing the petition to call a referendum of 500 thousand to 300 thousand and an initiative to hold a referendum of 200 thousand to 150 thousand people. I also call on my colleagues from the Reformation bloc to support it, as they had an identical proposal. Of course, the reduction from 500 to 400,000 is also the right step, but we should not be afraid and have a psychological barrier that what a political entity may not achieve by 300,000 will achieve by 400,000. I therefore call on you to support our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the People's Representative Chetin Kazak's procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have a procedural proposal on the way in. Dear Mr President, since you are currently debating and possibly voting on texts that I believe are unacceptable should not be put to any discussion or vote. I want to read you the text in art. 81, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure: The second vote shall discuss only the proposals of Members of the National Assembly which have been received in accordance with art. 80, as well as proposals from the committee responsible, included in her report. Editorial amendments are also eligible. And now: The proposals that contradict the principles and scope, repeat and bruise, the scope of the bill adopted at the first vote, are not discussed and voted. These proposals, which were made here by Mr. Borislav Borisov, by Mr. Georgi Kadiev, by Ms. Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov, contradict both the principles and the scope of the first vote adopted, only adopted in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Nowhere within the scope of this Draft Law, as you see in the main text, is the issue of neither the number of signatures nor the number to make the postponement of the referendum compulsory or in relation to its validity, so in an unacceptable way in the Legal Committee these texts have been admitted to consideration. However, I hope that the management of the National Assembly will not violate the Rules of Procedure, will not allow a clear violation of the Rules, and you will not allow any further discussion of these texts, so I ask you to really put an end to the debate here, to move on to § 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. That's your hypothesis. I follow exactly the report of the Legal Commission. These are unsupported proposals by the Commission, which I will put to the vote after the debate and the end of the debate. Mr. Bajraktarov, before you Georgi Kadiev had a speech. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll say two words about what Mr. Kazak said. Mr. Kazak, you're probably right. Indeed, very often in Parliament, including myself, I make proposals between first and second readings that are outside the scope of first reading. If we follow your logic, then we should, for example, change to the Energy Act, which were seen yesterday by the Energy Commission, completely cross them off, because at first reading there were two members, and yesterday there were 31 pages of proposals. So, unfortunately, sometimes real changes occur between first and second readings. I admit it's a bad practice because they don't suggest enough time to discuss, or enough time for society to say their word, but that's reality. My proposals, honourable Members, concern one simple thing: facilitating the procedure for calling a referendum: point one reduces the number of MPs who can request a referendum of 48 to 40 people; point two reduces the number of municipal councils that can ask parliament to call a poll of a fifth, that is, from about 53 municipal councils of a tenth around 27 municipal councils. Point three is for collecting fewer signatures for offering a referendum.. up to 75 thousand, which is about 1% of the population. That's my logic. The ABB colleague offered $150,000, which is 2%, but whether it's 1 or 2% is not that important, but the number has to be reduced. And point four is equivalent to point two.. bringing the threshold for a mandatory request for a referendum of 500 thousand to about 200 thousand, which is about 3% of the country's population or about 4% of the people with voting rights. The logic of all these proposals is easier to call a referendum, and I in § 1 had suggested that human rights and national security issues should not be offered for a referendum because of the possibility of populism. And since this thesis has not been adopted, I would like to tell you that if in Sofia, for example, there is a referendum on whether to introduce a Sofia residence, I guarantee you that the result will be defeating....... which, however, violates a fundamental human right and this is the right and movement, it is also a fundamental European right, and the right to live where you want to live. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to support logic. Whether you will support my proposal, the ABB proposal, if the reformers have their proposals, even the Commission's proposal, which is the softest of all, and a 20% reduction from 500 to 400 thousand. souls, but the direction is correct. And in my opinion, the more definite the changes, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. First line here, Mr. Kazak. For the second line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I am inclined to accept that this restriction, this explicit text in the Rules, for one reason or another, is violated, but this is not grounds when there is a clear violation, flagrantly, and it is an infringement not only that it violates this text by the Rules of Admissibility of a proposal outside the scope, but it also violates another restriction in the Rules that texts which have already been rejected in the first vote cannot be re-submitted. You know that there is also such a text "some of the proposals currently accepted for discussion by the Legal Committee are one to one text taken by the other bills amending this Law, which have been rejected by the plenary of the first vote. The only bill that was passed was the GERB Bill. All the other proposals contained were the subject of other bills that were rejected, and now you are proposing again through the back door, really in one vote, that they be tabled and discussed again after they have been rejected in principle. Therefore, I continue to insist that the National Assembly still retain its dignity by expressing compliance with the Rules, which only adopted the Rules of Procedure. These all proposals deal with issues that are outside the scope that have nothing to do with the initial votes of the first vote Draft. As far as your thesis is concerned, it's usually wrong, Mr. Kadyev. We can see what's going on through the referendums in general. Then when questions are raised that are not of a value nature, they, instead of solving a problem, deepen it even further. And your thesis: give anywhere to ease the holding, initiating referendums will only complicate the situation. I'll continue with the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u20	Dear Mr. Kadiev, I partly agree with your speech. Yes, the direction is correct, to go in a reduction, but we should not go in extremes, because by one tenth to reduce the number of people you quoted the Municipal Council in Sofia. There are municipal councils in which the councillors are 11. One tenth is 1.1, if I think correctly, that is, an advisor should be able to initiate a referendum. No, and you shouldn't really go to such extremes. Yes, there is an offer to reduce the number of signatures. You said: yes, it is somewhere in the middle, 20% is actually reduced from 500 to 400 thousand requirements, because it does not go to another extreme in the form of a petition, the narrow party cores to provoke a referendum and the question to be mandatory for the National Assembly, because in this case the National Assembly cannot reject, unlike the previous hypotheses, whether they will be one fifth or one tenth Members of the National Assembly. We should not go to this extreme, because this is actually distorting the idea of referendums. As for what you said about proposals between first and second readings, I agree with you. And one more thing: last week we voted on the Civil Registration Act, honourable Members. And we went back to the last paragraph, and we reworded texts that I wasn't talking about in a committee, and we had rejected them. In this Chamber, the MPs rejected the texts, but this did not prevent by the will of the National Assembly from voting again on the texts that have already been rejected in this House, so that we do not absolutate the Rules of Procedure. The people's representation, through the vote, manifests its will. It's an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u21	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Third line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to make a reply in the part that has not been affected, and this is the proposal to reduce from 500 to 200 thousand. We should have some rather broader sample of the interests of the population, since 200 thousand, in my opinion, can only be done in one area. You set an example, and I will give you one: if in the Ruse region we make a signature for repair of the Ruse road, do you think that any normal citizen or party group, or whoever it is, will not sign under it? Because I know that you have written, but not from one area, two people can be taken from another area, especially not to say that the road is interesting for Tarnovo, and this becomes a national problem. So when we talk in numbers, we should keep a little in mind that there should be representation. Because you're smiling at me very challengingly. [[turns to MP Georgi Kadiev]] Just to let my colleagues know that Mr. Kadiev did not even attend the Legal Committee to give some guidance on what he meant by his proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Hole, Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u24	Colleague Ivanov, I'm smiling not challenging, but because you don't read the texts. In the text it is specifically written: The signature of citizens with permanent address registration from one area cannot represent more than 50% of all signatures. What two people from Veliko Tarnovo?! Are the two people going to be the other 50%?! Of course, everyone else should also be at least 50%, and that's not two people. The same goes for Mr. Lazarov. You didn't understand what I said. The current text of the Law, Mr. Lazarov, says that one fifth of the municipalities in Bulgaria, as a number of 53 municipalities, can refer to parliament with a request for a national referendum. I propose a reduction of one tenth, i.e. 27 municipalities, not one tenth of the municipal councillors in a given municipality to offer. These are completely different things. If you think it is easy to find 27 municipalities to refer to Parliament, it is not easy. The question of numbers is imaginary. No one can tell you if it's right 200, 300, 400 or 500 grand. The main question is the logic that we want to follow, do we want people to say their opinions on some issues that we consider ourselves competent and not them? I think we should ask them, and very often they will be more competent than us. And, yes, sometimes these will be some regional problems that they will try to make national. Another time will be something that we believe they should not vote for, because it is an issue that they could hardly appreciate, but I appreciate what the Commission is doing. Even the reduction from 500 to 400,000 is a step in the right direction, just a tiny step. I wish the step was a little bigger. Here, and Mr. Daniel Kirilov smiles challengingly at me. Make it this big step! Make at least 300,000. If you don't support mine, support the ABB colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Personal explanation please, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u26	Dear Mr. Kadiev, my speech in the form of a reply was not specific and just about your proposal. It was about the other proposals, as far as you mentioned, and not just your proposal. On the occasion of your proposal, the topic is slightly different, but I hinted at how much reduction in the requirement for a petition in a citizens' initiative would lead to the tight party cores to challenge this initiative and to oblige. If you look at the figures, in the last election for mayor of the individual candidates in the different cities, if you look at the numbers of the numbers that are collected in the votes cast in the parliamentary elections, you will understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, over the years many fairy tales have spoken about the so-called "direct democracy" but the truth is one.. hundreds of thousands of collected signatures stand on the dusty shelves in the basement of the National Assembly and who knows where else. Hundreds of thousands of signatures collected, which have not actually reached the goal of hearing the voice of the people, and otherwise we are talking about direct democracy. On the other hand, when we are talking about direct democracy, the solution must be really extremely balanced in order not to go to one extreme or another, such as the ABB of 200 thousand. the signature for holding a national referendum. I'm sorry, but 200,000. The signature somehow does not sound serious for a national referendum. On the other hand, given the amendments made to the Law, which we will probably vote on today, and the parties will be able to recognize the questions asked in an organised referendum, ease the task, but here the approach must be balanced and allow the people to be able to participate, initiate a referendum and, most importantly, hear its word. For this reason, Mr. President, we from the Patriotic Front propose an editorial amendment to the created § 2a, which is expressed in art. 10, para. 2, where the number "six hundred and fifty thousand" is replaced by three hundred and fifty thousand. We believe that this is a balanced approach. This is an opportunity to really hear the voice of the people and, most importantly, a referendum to have representation and to enable the people to be heard. Three hundred and fifty thousand is a compromise option, and I think that all of our colleagues here will come together around this number because, once again, hundreds of thousands of signatures collected over the years stand on dusty shelves, and it has never come to holding a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line: Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u30	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, from this tribune you very often reprimand the MPs for not getting acquainted with the texts of the laws. Now I take the opportunity to make your remark to you, because we offer a reduction of 500 thousand to 300 thousand, not to 200 thousand. However, in this sense, our proposals are identical, so we can support each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Second line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u32	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, your proposal turns the question of the so-called minimum number of petitions for a mandatory call for a referendum in a tender with obvious bidding "who will offer no more but less this time." The initial text is 500 thousand, GERB have offered 400 thousand, you are now bidding, offering 50 thousand less. I expect to hear who has less to offer. Is this what we are going to turn Mr. Bajraktarov, democracy in Bulgaria into an auction with obvious bidding: who will give less?! The path to the worst troubles, to misery, Mr. Bayraktarov, is paved with populism. The more you give in and we all succumb to populism, the worse the future awaits this country. I would like to ask you a question: who does the National Assembly represent? Why is the name of the National Assembly and not the name of the Assembly? Why is it called the National Assembly?! Because it represents the whole people, the whole Bulgarian people. Three hundred and fifty thousand signatures, 400 thousand signatures, 500 thousand signatures, what are they? These are 500,000 Bulgarian citizens who are part of the people. I say, part of it! They are not the whole Bulgarian people. And you represent a certain part of the Bulgarian people over the people. Is that what you're after with this proposal? I want you to answer me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Third line? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Miss Todorova, and we are sometimes mistaken because many figures you have offered 150,000, and 200 thousand, and 300 thousand. However, you will agree that we are proposing a balanced approach. What we have been talking about for years because, unlike you, we have been trying and we are the first to organise a referendum, we have been able to collect the fruits of the law in force, although the people have said emphatically to implement a large energy helmet by your chief who enslaved Bulgaria with several billion levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u35	Please don't mix the topics, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u36	Thanks, but it's my constitutional right to an opinion, Mr. Chairman. It's about Mr. Kazak. Mr. Kazak, you're a lawyer. I assume you've read the Constitution well. The Constitution states that it is the people's representative who represent the sovereign, without distinguishing him by party affiliation, by any other sign and so on. People's representative! This is the answer to your question. As far as the DPS is concerned, you have some strange thinking, subject to the philosophy of the Commercial Law, always subject to the philosophy of making deals and auctioning, there is no way I can answer you, because this is not typical of the behavior of the Patriotic Front. [[Relations and excitement.]] We can't think like this. Perhaps that is why you are worried that at some point the Bulgarian people will decide in a referendum to review the constitutional decision whether the DPS is a constitutional party. I must remind you that the decision is 6 to 6 votes, there is no solution. There's no such solution! And would the people not want to decide that this ethnic party should be closed down?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Personal explanation, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u38	Mine was a doppelganger. He has no right to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u39	You turned to him yourself. He has a right to that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u40	There's no right to a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u41	He's entitled to a statement. Here you are, Mr. Kazak, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u42	When the Rules are broken, I accept that. I will not contribute to its breach, unlike all of you who agree to violate the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I dare say I have a modest knowledge of the Constitution. I will quote you, Mr. Speaker, one of the first texts of the Constitution: Art. 1. (1) Bulgaria is the Republic with parliamentary management. After that: The entire government derives from the people. It shall be carried out by it directly or through the bodies selected by it provided for in this Constitution. After that: No part of the people.......................................... no part of the people.... can take advantage of the exercise of the people's reach.................................................................... Do you know what that means? Do you understand what that means? That no part of it was 350 thousand, 400 thousand, 500 thousand, 800 thousand, the Bulgarian people were much more than that. No part can oblige the sovereign and the authority he has broadcast through direct democratic elections to do something directly his will. The text adopted in the original version of this Law is a flagrant violation of this constitutional text. The very existence of a hypothesis in which a certain number of signatures was 500 thousand, 600 thousand, 350 thousand, to oblige the direct emancipation of the people's sovereignty, the National Assembly must schedule a referendum, is in direct contradiction with the Constitution. This text should rather be dismissed, because it is now violating the Constitution. However, not only are you not pleading for this, you are bidding in the direction of reducing this threshold, you see, 100 000 people are obliged to oblige the representative of the Bulgarian sovereign, the National Assembly, to schedule a referendum. Mr. Speaker, you're not a lawyer. However, I turn to the common sense of everyone present in this Chamber: if we ever want Bulgaria to be the rule of law democratic state, we must not allow such a flagrant violation of the basic constitutional text on which the foundations of the Bulgarian democratic model are based. Even your speech has revealed, has exposed your hidden intentions, you want, through the instruments of direct democracy, to impose a dictation of the majority over the minority. You want to use the instrument of direct democracy in such a way, the referendum, that through it you put under threat the achievements of Bulgarian democracy, the achievements of Euro-Atlantic membership and the Euro-Atlantic essence of Bulgaria, which it has achieved through so much effort for 25 years. We see how this instrument in the hands of populist parties can harm the fundamental national interests of other countries that used it. The last example is from neighboring country south of Bulgaria. Once again, I turn to common sense: reject all these proposals not because of the formal argument that I said, but because they are inherently unconstitutional. Part of the Bulgarian people cannot oblige the National Assembly to adopt any decision. The National Assembly should only, as an expressor of the people's sovereignty, decide whether to schedule, or not, a referendum. He must have the last word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. First line.. People's representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u44	Dear colleague Kazak, you are returning the debate in 2009 when the same ones were developed. In 2009, the 40th National Assembly adopted this Bill. By the way, since 2008, it has matured and there the proposal for 500 000 required signatures is valid for your parliamentary group then. Open the transcripts, look at them! I've seen them, I've read them. I will strongly disagree with your thesis that, you see, it is unconstitutional to have referendums at first, let me put it this way. All the government is derived from the people, it is carried out by them immediately. That's what it is. If you believe that this is contrary to some general principles, another is the subject, but let us not put the debate back there. Yes, the people can oblige the National Assembly by 400-500 thousand votes, dear Mr Kazak, and how they will pronounce themselves.............................................................................. is another topic. Whether those who participated in the referendum with the requirements that are currently in force, the last parliamentary elections Five hundred thousand, or other hypotheses, is a completely different subject, but let's not bring this debate back. It is debated, including you, other colleagues who are not here now, but you had the opportunity, first, then not to vote on this bill.. without your votes it would not have gone as it is now acting, and then you had the next opportunity, speaking of unconstitutionality, to refer to the Constitutional Court. You didn't, and you won't, because you know what the result will be. Let's say things one to one. In my previous speech, honourable colleague Kazak, I said that the number of valid signatures to the tight party cores should not be reduced in order to make it mandatory for the National Assembly to schedule a referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kazak, it is indeed a joy for the ear to listen when you explain Euro-Atlantic values and Euro-Atlantic orientation. However, I will probably have to remind you, because you also have to read the story that, for example, in a country like Switzerland, a large part of the decisions are the product of direct democracy, in a country like France, a large part of the decisions are the product of direct democracy. By the way, the most recent example in France is the rejection of the pension reform proposed by President Sarkozy and an increase in age. There's something else. Yes, power is exercised directly by the people by participating in elections, because it must first choose the relevant authority in order to have this immediate participation in power. Perhaps you are not asking each other, however, a more interesting question that, for example, do seven million Bulgarian citizens have to comply with 350 thousand people who sent the DPS to parliament? Another question is whether they really chose you and whether they sent you. Maybe that's what's bothering you? Because here it is, this comparability of your untenable statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u47	Mr. Bayraktarov, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u48	So when you speak precisely of Euro-Atlantic values, populism goes to another extreme and it is difficult to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Third line? National Representative Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Kazak, I want to resist the way you spoke. I was under the impression that both the Council of Ministers and 48 MPs and the President had no right to ask for a referendum. This is an opportunity for citizens to participate directly in government. It is no coincidence that our proposal with Anna Alexandrova is to be a balanced number. Everyone expects there to be a real change, to facilitate the process of holding referendums, so I think that figure is 400,000. By following your statements, they are for a higher number. I think this is the balancing figure that enables really important issues in the country, not regional ones, to produce referendums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Kazak, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u52	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't see Mr. Lazarov right now. The DPS has always been firm and fundamental against the creation of an opportunity for a certain part of the Bulgarian citizens to oblige the National Assembly to schedule a referendum because we have always considered and continue to believe that this is an unconstitutional text. The problem is that the DPS has never had only enough MPs to refer to the Constitutional Court for this text. The text has never been put at the control of the Constitutional Court for its constitutionality. We are convinced that if anyone shows the courage to put him under the control of the Constitutional Court and join our signatures, let us see what the Constitutional Court will say then. The fact that the DPS did not refer to the Constitutional Court is only because we cannot refer to it ourselves. So I call on you: anyone who accuses us that we have not referred to the Constitutional Court to join us with their signatures and to see whether a certain number of signatures are acceptable to oblige the National Assembly to adopt or not to adopt a decision. From then on, I repeat loudly and hardly: the DPS is not against referendums as an expression of direct democracy. We are against this particular proposal a certain part of the Bulgarian people to oblige sovereign, the rest to take or not to take an action. The National Assembly should always have the last word "Whether to hold or not to hold a referendum, because the National Assembly as an authority is an expression of popular sovereignty, it is a direct emancipation of representative democracy. And finally I want to address Mr. Bayraktarov. I don't know who should be afraid of the Constitutional Court or of its possible decision to ban this or that political power, whether the DPS or the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria? Mr. Bajraktarov, because you seem to be interested in the text of the Constitution, I would like to quote only one text. 44, para. 2. If you have the Constitution, open it. It reads: "The prohibition of organizations whose activities are aimed at inflamming racial, national, ethnic or religious enmity or violation of citizens' rights and freedoms is prohibited. [[Applause from DPS.]] Such organisations are prohibited, the Constitution has banned such organisations. Consider who has reason to fear banning their organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Mr. Zablyanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The discussion on such a serious matter became unusually mild. There is no way to justify the logic in which a truly non-representative part of Bulgarian citizenship should oblige the representative authorities. I would not like to comment in detail on the thesis that Mr Kazak developed, but the two principles of democratic governance, the direct and representative, must be complemented and cannot be excluded from each other. One principle cannot jeopardise the functioning of the other principle, which means that one part of the Bulgarian citizens cannot be able to impose the agenda of the huge part of society, albeit a little, albeit organized. Dozens are the examples in history of various political systems in which a minority dictatorship has been implemented. Yes, one of the great dangers of democracy is the dictatorship of the majority. The two principles must therefore be combined and balanced. Direct democracy has nothing to do with the ancient idea of democracy for a number of objective reasons. Today, modern society is governed by state bodies, constitutional structure and representative principle above all else. There are many examples here regarding the Swiss Confederation, I say confederation for a reason. The Swiss Confederation's device is unique as constitutional and I believe that the practice of daily and weekly referendums cannot be transferred to a country with a uniform device such as Bulgaria, and we must take into account the political tradition, the level of civil and political culture, the habits and participation of the political society in the government of the state. We may find ourselves facing risks we don't suspect. So it seems to me that even removing the requirement of 500,000 to 400,000 signatures is not justified by anything. It's one step to make some kind of gesture. A gesture to what? To moods, to expectations, as some express themselves? What do you get with 400,000 signatures? Is democracy strengthening? Instead of 500 grand? I would like to say that BSP is the party that held a referendum after the changes in Bulgaria, albeit with a rather low participation of 20%, if you remember, twenty-several percent participation of citizens. And that was when 700 real signatures were collected! Count the ratio! At 700,000 signatures in the referendum, about a million and three hundred thousand people took part - 20%, one by one, I can say a significant topic. That is, the referendum, apart from the purely formal criterion, in order to become a really significant political event for the nation, must also be in line with the political moment when the whole society, the whole people, wants it. And then if it's 400, 300, 600 thousand signatures, it doesn't matter. This is the issue with the referendum on the republic in 1947. But these are key issues of historical importance. And yes, the door to the referendum must be open, but they must solve these issues. It seems to me that from the stands there are constantly mixed questions about the local idea of referendums, municipal referendums, what color the trolleys will be like in Switzerland or the form of the state. These aren't questions of the same order. And the way we are trying to bring down the border here shows nothing but absolute ignorance of the principles of the functioning of modern representative democracy. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. First line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Respected by Mr. Zablyanov's speech, I had no intention of speaking, but after his words I use this statement to propose an editorial amendment in the style in which the colleagues from the Patriotic Front made it: the figure 10, para. 2 to be replaced by the figure..8..and the number of.500 thousand..to become.800 thousand.. [[Radio.]] Why, colleagues? Because all of this, all of these proposals from 500 to 400, that 200, that 350 are purely populist proposals that do not contribute, and on the contrary they create serious prerequisites for a very small part of whether it is populist, whether it is not, to manipulate the majority of Bulgarian society. Over the past few months, we have listened to the thesis on how much more representative there must be in society, how in elections 3.5 million. Voters are not enough, and the speakers of the referendum, Mr. President, propose a mandatory vote on the grounds that public-political life needs much higher representation. These proposals are exactly in the opposite direction, how do we achieve great representation by reducing the number of signatures? There's a clear contradiction here. For example, 150 thousand are created. the fan of the CSKA Football Club to oblige us to bring the team back to the group. It's not that I won't sign, I think I'll even initiate this referendum. Or another example: do you know in a week how many signatures BSP has collected against the Transatlantic Trade Investment Agreement between the European Union and the United States? Twenty-five thousand, the coworkers answer. A few more weeks and I'll get to that 250 grand. You want us to go to war with the United States and the European Union with such a frivolous referendum, fellow Members? Is that what we're after with these populist proposals to reduce the petition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. First line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is not possible to abstract the debates on proposals to reduce the threshold for mandatory referendums and for the mandatory results of the referendum held by the specific initiative of the Head of State to put to a referendum three of its questions: the mandatory vote, the mixed proportional majority electoral system and the electronic vote. In a written declaration on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I have already warned you of this. Get ready! The final result will be: the results of the October 25th referendum, held together with the local elections, will have a binding, binding character for the forty-third National Assembly and within a month we are obliged to introduce a mixed proportional majority electoral system. The result, even in the reduction option, two thirds of the selected pro rata, one third of the majority, we establish a one-party management model for years to come. Congratulations! That's the first score. Secondly, I will not give other examples of the risks associated with this voluntarism that prevails in plenary. The colleague gave some examples in a funny plan, but I think the example of Greece should sober us up more or less. I ask: where is the courage of Tsipras, who put the draft agreement with creditors to a referendum [[Full lines: Essentially!]] Why does he not now have the courage to submit the signed agreement to creditors to a referendum? Do you know why he doesn't? Because 80 percent of the Greek people will say no. Once again, there is a need for referendums on value issues. On purely expert topics, we must refrain from resorting to this instrument, because when it is conducted on expert topics, it smells of populism for the simple reason that a new legislative body, a new legislative entity, is practically located in the referendum, the whole-built people. Not that it's bad, but it hides the risk of severe consequences because of the prevailing moods of the day they would predict would prejudge the vote. Therefore, the smartest thing we could do is to adopt only those texts in this Bill, which will make it possible to form municipal electoral committees, because the Act in force does not allow that, and all other texts to be discussed in a calmer environment after local elections. This is the smartest thing Parliament can do today. Otherwise, the responsibility for the consequences of the decisions taken today in this plenary session will be yours. I will remind you of my speech, which will be reflected in the shorthand protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u60	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u61	Before I give you my word, are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u62	Dear Mr. Mestan, allow me to disagree with the conclusion you are making. I absolutely agree that the people can oblige us to do something that is against their own interest due to a coincidence of circumstances or the mood of the day. But this is where the politicians play the role. We're the ones who have to educate the people. For example, I am strongly opposed to the mandatory vote, because it does not work, that this is a right, not an obligation, that you cannot punish 30 " 40% of the population who will not vote. But that doesn't mean I don't want to ask the people how they feel about mandatory voting. I absolutely disagree with my colleague Chetin Kazak's thesis before you, who said that through the referendums we are taking sovereignty. On the contrary, we give sovereignty and give it to those who have chosen us. If our logic is that we do not want to give people the right to set our agenda, by the same logic we must stop the elections, because they have also made mistakes and put in parliament parties that do not deserve to be in parliament and these parties have made decisions that are against the interests of this same people. I remain with the feeling that this Bill is almost against the DPS and the number of votes to be valid for the referendum is almost in line with the electorate of the DPS. If it's 500 thousand, because the DPS can't reach them; if it's 300 thousand bad, because the DPS will reach them, and the DPS core, you see, will suddenly trigger a referendum. There, that's the mistake, colleagues. We don't respect political parties here, we don't respect political cores. After all, these cores are part of the same people who choose us and who have the right to express their sovereignty. That is why I insist on reducing these numbers so that there will be more representativeness of the people. This Bill, after all, is called the Law on the direct participation of citizens. This is the direct participation of citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kadiev, dear colleagues! Mr. Kadiev, people will not vote for or against the mandatory vote. People will not vote for the majority vote in this referendum on 25 October 2015, they will vote for the mythologema, which is behind the mandatory vote and the majority vote. It is suggested that the majority vote is the panacea, which in an instant with a magic wand will improve the quality of political representation. A severe illusion, but these are the prevailing moods of the day. [[Reply of National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] We will obtain a mixed, proportional majority system in which the first political force takes everything and with somewhere 32 " 33%" will form an independent majority. Do I give you the example of England, where the liberal Democrats took only 8 mandates and the Scottish Nationalist Party of 4% had 56 MPs in the English Parliament? Is that what we want to happen in Bulgarian terms? In addition, someone is misleading you that the German model is being introduced. No! In the German model we have a strong preference of personalities within the framework of proportional reporting of the representativeness of the parties. Moreover, dear Mr. Kadiev, and the parties are wrong, they deviate from their election commitments, but there is an outlet here. The system itself has arranged the vents. In subsequent elections these parties will be punished, their mistakes will be corrected by a new act of the legislative authority. If mistakes are crimes, they'll go to jail. But people don't make mistakes. But if the right decision by the people in a referendum results in negative consequences, there is no correction mechanism. That is why I say that the referendum should unfold, be an important corrective of representative power, but on value issues, as a true corrective, not on purely expert topics. I say that the electoral system, apart from value, is primarily an expert topic and there will be no time for sufficient clarification. It's our responsibility, but sometimes your rational arguments are powerless to the mythologiem. The myth dies over time, not always dying as a result of rational counterarguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Seeing that you are also idle, and not interrupting speakers who are not actually speaking on the substance,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u67	So, here I was supposed to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u68	...which is an indication that the debate has practically run out because nothing new has been said, which is why I would like to put an end to the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u69	A reverse opinion? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u70	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u71	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u72	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And today we have lived to hear, after an hour and a half of heated, reasoned debates that if you see, there is no debate, there is no argument, and give this reason to put an end to the debate. When there's powerlessness, when there's inability...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u73	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u74	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u75	It's not a procedure, it's a reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u77	I asked for a reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u78	Yeah, yeah, back to the termination procedure. Where there is an inability to find serious arguments and to point out in the parliamentary debate, this cheap trick provided for in the Rules of Procedure shall be resorted to and used by the parliamentary majority for its imposition. We are discussing one of the most important bills in the Forty-third National Assembly. With this bill, we decide whether or not to open the doors to direct democracy wide in the future. With this Law, we set the limits, the limits in which legislation will be made and this serious instrument will be used from now on. That is why there should be serious debates here, not to end in such an unargumented and populist way that it is offered once again. Thank you. Against!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u79	We are voting on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to end the debate. Vote 147 MPs: 97 against 45, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! Citing to art. 81, para. 2 which states that only proposals under Article 2 shall be discussed in the case of a second vote. 80, as well as proposals from the committee responsible, included in its report, it is written that amendments are admissible and editorial. Two of my colleagues Mr. Bajraktarov and Mr. Hamid made proposals in the form of editorial proposals. Currently, the debate is under § 3 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. This text is important with its number. If we change from 400,000. At 350,000. Or 400,000. at 800 thousand, this is a change in substance and not an editorial amendment, which is why I urge you not to put these proposals to a vote because they will be contrary to the Rules. I'm asking you to follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u81	Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Hamid, withdraw your offer from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, taking into account the arguments just put forward by Mrs. Ahmedova, I withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u83	We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 35 against 27, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Kadiev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: for 8, against 54, abstentioned 80. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in § 3, Article 3. 10, para. 2, 400,000. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man They voted 150 MPs: 43, against 36, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3. Vote 152 MPs: 122 against 28, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u84	Thank you. [[Change of Presidents.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Contrary to the position expressed that the debate was almost empty and so on, it was sufficiently reasoned, sufficiently justified, sufficiently serious. I think we all need a break in order to understand and reflect on what we just voted on. [[Noise and lines.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we offer 30 minutes of rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u85	Rest till 12.50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u86	Dear colleagues, here we go. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 3 a proposal has been made by the MPs Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: The existing text of § 3 becomes point 1 and is created. 2: "2." Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The National Assembly shall, in consultation with the importers under art. 10, may edit without altering the meaning of the question or questions contained in the proposal and their order. In the event that no agreement can be reached between the committee responsible in the National Assembly and the importers within the time limit laid down in art. 13 para. 8, the text and order of the questions shall be approved by the Constitutional Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Ana Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The 2th sentence is first amended as follows: The Member of the National Assembly shall immediately send the signature in a structured electronic form to the General Directorate for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which shall carry out a service check no later than 45 days after the receipt of the petition. 2. In para. 4 after the word "subscriptions" shall be added including when finding discrepancies with the requirements of art. 10, para. 1, t. 5 or para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u88	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Debates are open. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Commission proposal § 4, p. 2 is recorded: In para. 4 after the word "subscriptions" shall be added including when finding non-compliance of the signature with the requirements of art. 10, para 1, t. 5, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the In essence, this is actually giving a new deadline for collecting signatures, but only for one of the subjects described in art. Ten of the law. Why not give such an opportunity to the other entities, which are described in the Law of the Municipal Councils, the MPs, the President? Why is such differentiation between the subjects under art. Ten? The point of the Law is that the subjects under art. 10 are equal and each of them should have that opportunity. Why is it given only to the Initiative Committee not to remedy some technical error but to actually continue the procedure for collecting the required number of signatures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u90	Colleagues, I beg you, silence in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u91	I believe that in this way the equality between the subjects is clearly violated and that is not the meaning and spirit of the Law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Popov. First line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, the subjects are not unequal, but the citizens' initiative is being defended on the contrary. I repeat, the citizens' initiative is being defended, which has walked a serious path in the collection of signatures, respectively when organising support for the issue concerned. And for this reason, an opportunity is given in this case by this method. I do not want to make analogies with a petition that was submitted in the past National Assembly, how controversial it was interpreted by the then President of the National Assembly and how a serious blocking effect was achieved in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u94	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, there is no way you can compare the period during which signatures should be collected with the proposals for a referendum submitted by the President, by the MPs or by the municipalities. You mean there's an opportunity to sign off on 45 people's... Are you even listening to me? Mr. Popov, I'm talking to you, by the way! [[Radio.]] No 45 signatures shall be submitted by the Members of the National Assembly and shall then be completed. It is clear that these hypotheses are quite different from each other and there is no way to compare them to comment in the way you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u96	Third line? A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues in your lines I have heard nothing about municipal councils.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u98	You didn't hear the lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u99	Why shouldn't they be given a chance? In fact, the introduction and extension of the deadline for the collection of signatures by another month, and only in relation to the Initiative Committee. He is the only one who collects signatures, but why should it be extended? We are not talking here about any technical gaps in the signature, but about continuing with a one-month period of the opportunity of the Initiative Committee to collect the required number of signatures, whether it is already 400 or less signatures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u100	Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 119 MPs: for 5, against 54, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4 in the version of the Commission report. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 111 MPs: 88, against 12, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u101	Proposal of the MPs Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs under § 4. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following 1. A new para is being created. 2: The time limits referred to in paragraph 2 shall be as follows: 1 shall not apply where elections are produced within one year from the date of promulgation of the decision of the National Assembly, with the exception of partial and new elections for municipal councillors and mayors. In this case, the national referendum and elections are produced on the same date. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the word "off' is replaced by "non-workable'. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u102	Statements? Mr. Stoilov, after him, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making an editorial proposal. 1, para. 2 the word "one year" to be replaced by "six months." The inclusion of a requirement when there is a decision to hold a referendum and elections are organised next year, the referendum to be held with the elections, means to delay the expression of the will of citizens by about one year. This, in my opinion, is not in the interest, but to the detriment of direct democracy. It is appropriate that when this deadline is not too big and I think that half a year is enough time not to organise such campaigns twice, people should vote twice, but what prevents if at the beginning of the year a referendum is to be held and at the end of the year elections, or vice versa, all this should be pushed at the expense of the referendum at the later date? In many cases, the topics of the referendum and the election campaign have nothing to do with it. The organisation of the referendum is not so complicated and I think that we should generally allow such flexibility, but it, again, should not be for about a year. That is why I am asking you to support this change. It is in the interests of the citizens. It is in the interest of both direct and representative democracy, and not to stick in this way almost always referendums with elections. In some cases, this is even not necessary. I do not want to give examples of European practice where, on some important topics, issues are deliberately taken out so as not to affect the results of the referendum from the momentary moods expressed in the elections. There are also examples showing that referendums can be organised quite urgently. I do not appeal to such an extraordinary urgency, but this proposal I think is much better than this relatively long one-year term. At a time when all life is speeding up, the dynamics of all relations are increasing and thus we will meet expectations, especially when it comes to citizens' initiative, but also other subjects, when they have proposed a referendum, and this is adopted by Parliament, to find the most appropriate time for the organisation of both the referendum and the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u104	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u105	Thank you, Madam President. It's bad legislation that's being done in connection with a particular case, hell of a hock. This is exactly the case with the change of art. 14. The Commission's proposal states that the time limits under para. 1 shall not apply where elections are produced within one year from the date of promulgation of the decision by the National Assembly, except for partial new elections for municipal councillors and mayors. The current art. 14 in the Law states that the President of the Republic within one month of the promulgation of the decision of the National Assembly to produce a referendum determines the date of a referendum which cannot be earlier than two and later than three months from the date of the promulgation of the decision of the National Assembly. This is actually the stumbling block of the ruling and the president's stone, precisely this term, and the proposal aims to push forward the President's questions and the combination of elections two in one in the upcoming local elections and referendum. I ask myself: in the end, the National Assembly is a performer of the will of the President and of his questions and, in the end, what republic are we, Presidential or parliamentary? And how is it possible in a national referendum to mix issues of national importance with issues of local importance and local referendums? My colleague Stoilov was right in his proposal, otherwise, if this is how we adopt the text, we will in fact please Mr. President and his questions, and, again, I repeat, such legislation created only for a particular case is by no means good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u106	Any other speeches? First lines to Mr. Popov, is there? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. We're closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, which he proposes in § 5, item 5. 1, para. 2 instead of the text, a one-year term is to be a six-month term. We vote on Yanaki Stoilov's proposal. They voted 117 MPs: 29, Against 19, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a re-voting procedure. My colleague Bozhinov failed to exercise his right to vote. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u108	Oh, how distracted this colleague of God's is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u109	But don't worry. The proposal by colleague Stoilov does not really exclude the production of two elections in one, the upcoming local elections with a referendum. Here we are talking about cutting the deadline from one year to six months, but a national referendum cannot always be bound by upcoming elections, whatever they were, and mixing at all the topics of direct democracy and representative democracy. So, please, think about it and reschedule. I am doing a re-voting procedure and support the proposal of colleague Yanaki Stoilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u110	That was a request for a re-vote. We are currently in the mode of re-voting Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's editorial proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 29, against 44, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 5 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 124 MPs: 100, against 22, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Paragraph 5? a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are 1. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: In support of the issue or questions of the referendum and of the alternative position, parties, coalitions and committees may be registered. During the simultaneous production of national referendums and elections, parties and coalitions registered in the Central Election Commission for participation in the elections can use their registration in the information and clarification campaign to produce the national referendum. (3) The parties, coalitions and initiative committees under para. 2 who are not entitled to state subsidy under the Law on Political Parties, are entitled to funds for media packages of 40 000 BGN, which are provided and spent in accordance with art. 178 of the Election Code. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u112	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: 111, against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u113	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: New Paragraph 5a is being created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. A new article shall be created. 16a: Art. 16a. (1) In national and local referendums may be voted with the newsletter through the sections of the country and abroad, as well as remotely by electronic signature or by Personal Identification Code issued by the National Revenue Agency. (2) The electronic vote shall be equivalent and shall be produced jointly with the vote by paper ballots on the basis of universal, free, equal, secret and directly selective law. (3) The general requirements relating to the vote by paper ballots are mandatory for electronic voting. (4) Citizens shall vote by choice either electronically or by paper ballots only. § 5b. In the beginning of art. 17, para. In the case of a vote by paper ballots, 1 is added. § 5c. A new article shall be created. 17a: Art. 17a. (1) Any Bulgarian citizen with a right to vote may vote in a national and local referendum remotely by electronic means. There's a repeating numbering here, and there's another reference to para. 1, clearly referring to para. 2: Anyone wishing to vote electronically shall submit an application for this by electronic means no later than two weeks before the referendum is held. (3) Where an application for a vote is received electronically under para. 3, the voter is deleted from the electoral list at a permanent address by the municipal administration at a permanent address, and the reason for the deletion is noted in the section "Notes'. (4) The vote of each voter voted electronically shall be reported in the election area at his permanent address. § 5d. A new article shall be created. 17b: Art. 17b. (1) Each voter voting electronically shall be identified by entering a name, surname, surname, surname, EGN, permanent address and electronic signature or Personal Identification Code issued by the National Revenue Agency. (2) The software system shall enable the voter to read the question or questions to which the voter must answer and allow for a choice between two horizontally placed circled fields with the inscriptions "to" and "not" in them. (3) The words "to" and "not" shall be written in the same large font. (4) In cases where the referendum is produced with more than one question, all questions shall be written consistently, followed by the order of the paper ballot. (5) In cases where the referendum is produced with more than one question, the voter shall not be obliged to answer all questions. § 5e. In the beginning of art. 18, para. 1 shall be added "In the case of paper ballots' and the existing text shall continue. § 5f. A new article shall be created. 19a: Art. 19a. An electronic voice is invalid when there is no answer to any question raised in the referendum. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u114	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 131 MPs: 10, against 52, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u115	Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7. .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 words for the whole country are deleted and the word "three" is replaced by "five."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u116	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: 100, none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u117	The proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev is created a new § 5g: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The proposal, subject to the referendum, is adopted if no less than 25 per cent of the voters have participated in the vote and if more than half of the voters voted in the referendum. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: When less than 25 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights have participated in the vote, but more than 15 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights and if more than half of those who participated in the referendum have voted in the vote, the referendum proposal shall be submitted to the National Assembly, which shall be decided within three months on the matter of the referendum. The National Assembly may reject the decision of the referendum by a qualified majority of two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u118	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Kadiev's proposal, not supported by the Commission. [[Reference between the rapporteur and the President.]] Mr. Kadiev proposes a new § 5g for changes in art. 23 in two points. Are you proposing a separate vote on the individual points? These are separate proposals, albeit increasingly art. 23. We'll read them separately and vote them separately. I get it. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev for changes in art. 23, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 10, against 52, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u119	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of Members of Parliament is created a new § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 At the same time a national referendum and local elections for participants in the referendum are accepted all those who have appeared in the polls and signed the electoral list. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u120	The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u121	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs is created a new § 6 and § 6 becomes § 8: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The proposal, subject to the referendum, is adopted if no less than 40 per cent plus one vote by the citizens with electoral rights and no less than half plus one vote for questions under art. 153 of the Constitution and if more than half of the voters took part in the referendum were voted by 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: If less than 40 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights and less than 50 per cent for questions under art. 153 of the Constitution, but more than 20 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights, and if they voted more than half of the participants in the referendum, the proposal subject to the referendum shall be submitted to the National Assembly and shall be dealt with in accordance with art. 52. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u122	Statements? Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ABB is the only party that actually, not declaratively, offers a significant reduction in the threshold for the validity of referendums, offering a criterion of 40 per cent plus one of the voting rights to be a criterion for the validity of referendums. We propose that this be a common criterion in order to have stability and predictability in holding the referendums. Although our proposal dropped after a strange re-voting in the Chamber a few months ago, I take the opportunity to thank GERB for accepting our proposal in their bill and offering it when the referendums are held on their own. I take the opportunity to say a few words about the next point, if you will allow me, as it is related to this, so that I do not go out twice in the stands. We are afraid that binding the threshold of referendums to some type of election will create chaos and problems in holding elections and will make a different burden on individual referendums. A different burden will be on both referendums produced on their own, with those held with some type of elections and between different types of elections. If we accept the legitimacy of the referendums the activity of local elections, we will have two signatures: one for those who voted in Bulgaria, the other for those who voted abroad. However, the threshold will be for those who voted in Bulgaria because those who are abroad do not concern them with the rule of seclusion. Thus, we can practically have more ballots submitted for the referendums, less for the local elections, but the quorum is for those for the local elections. This creates conditions for inequality between the different referendums. We fear that, when there are local elections, the quorum will be very high; parties will be able to dictate to their voters how to vote, to submit or not to submit ballots or to referendums, and this could vitiate the referendums. On the other hand, when there are European elections, when the quorum is expected to be very low, then there will be many proposals for a referendum and the idea of a referendum can be compromised. It makes sense that the threshold for the validity of referendums should be bound only by national elections in so far as the referendums are held on matters of competence of the National Assembly and for this reason not to challenge the legitimacy of the legislative power. Although I am not a supporter of this interpretation, as the results of national elections are very common and consistent depending on the political, economic situation, but it still makes sense that the quorum of referendums should be bound only by national and not local and European. I therefore call for the support of ABB's proposal for a firm, stable 40% threshold plus one of those eligible for vote, and in the electoral legislation next year to resolve the problem with Bulgarians abroad who will vote in national elections because we cannot, with the instrument of the Law on the conduct of referendums, solve other problems "how Bulgarians abroad to vote." I call for our proposal to be supported, the other to be postponed for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u124	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Stoilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as Mrs. Todorova called on, I take the opportunity on behalf of our parliamentary group to state support for the proposal made by Mr. Borisov and a group of MPs. This proposal, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, is justified. The motives have been said and I share them almost entirely, but along with this, we also need to comment on the question of what the threshold for validity of the referendums should be. Perhaps it is really not good that there are people in the National Assembly who have been more mandates because this is how memory is alive. We are now discussing issues that were discussed here at the Forty National Assembly. And to remind you, because at the time there was no political party ABB, but there was a policy Georgi Parvanov and the authorship of the current text, should be due to him, it is his due, because it is very much original to link the validity of the referendum not just to the number of voters involved, but to make any comparison between the last parliamentary elections and the referendum, which took place some time after them, to gather the same number of participants in these parliamentary elections in order to have validity. Then this text became possible because the DPS zealously supported him, in the face mainly then of Hristo Biserov. The National Assembly, which had a large number of parliamentary groups because of the different views in these parliamentary groups, formed a majority and today we have an almost insurmountable threshold for holding referendums. So you are properly revised today, I would call it a wrong decision, which is not in any support of direct democracy, although it was accepted under the slogan for the development of direct democracy. I believe that what is now being proposed is really achieving a good balance between the representativeness of the referendum and, at the same time, stimulating citizens to participate and knowing that the vote they have expressed is highly likely to produce the desired effect to achieve this solution. For this reason, our parliamentary group will support this decision. At the time, our initiative was like a minimum threshold for the validity of the referendum to have at least 30% or about one third of the voters, but I think that, under our conditions, the step from one threshold, which is practically somewhere between 50 and 60%, in view of the average participation in the parliamentary elections and 40%, is a significant step towards the development of direct democracy. I also share that the requirement must be unified and not be bound by the different types of national elections or their combination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u126	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I do not know if former President Georgi Parvanov is the author of this idea, but this is the most appropriate, most justified criterion for determining the validity of a referendum. It is no coincidence that the criterion is chosen as many citizens as they have participated in the last parliamentary elections. Because during a referendum the real people legislate personally, directly, not through his elected body National Assembly, but he legislates directly. After the legislation adopted by him by a referendum, which then becomes compulsory and already the National Assembly is obliged to put it in legal form, after he will be by the power of law and above those who the National Assembly votes, his legitimacy must be at least as great as the legitimacy of the indirect................................ the National Assembly................................... That is why this criterion is chosen, it is not arbitrary, it is not chosen so randomly or in order to hinder the holding of the referendum. He was chosen precisely for this purpose: when the people legislate directly, the legitimacy of his decisions must be at least as great, if not greater than the legitimacy of the laws of the National Assembly, which is currently in session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u128	That's a first line. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u129	Mr. Kazak, you are consistent in your argumentation. Such were your arguments when this text was adopted years ago, for there must be the same representativeness of those citizens who are constituted as a community which takes decisions in the circle of the powers of the National Assembly. I'd like to give you another theoretical argument. Such a thesis, not quantitatively, once supported by Prof. Venelin Ganev, who says that when citizens directly resolve any issues, they are constituted in a kind of body. He does not deal directly and specifically with the topic we are discussing, but I think that this, how to put it, the mathematics of democracy should not be absoluteized either. Because if you insist precisely on this dimension, you must insist that every single law be voted by 240 MPs and that it be adopted with the majority based on 240. As long as you are well aware that when Parliament is functioning, it can never in this sense be fully compared to the number of voters who take a decision. I therefore think that such mathematics does not meet the real conditions. Moreover, by following the development of referendums in a number of countries, we will see that we are going to some relief of opportunities, but let us in Bulgaria make these steps reasonably and consistently, not jump from one extreme to the other. For this reason, I think the proposed solution is a good one, because the classic option, which has acted before, although not often practiced referendums, is to ask for participation of more than half of the voters. The timing of the referendum is different from the time when parliaments are elected, so they should not always be seen in this immediate parallel. We must bear in mind the level of participation in elections and referendums. From this point of view, I believe that the rates offered are not very different from the average level of participation in different types of elections. For this reason, I have already said what are the arguments that this can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u130	Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs whom the Commission does not support. They voted 140 MPs: 37 against 37, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u131	There is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Petar Slavov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: When the referendum was not produced at the same time as elections, the referendum proposal was adopted if no less than 40 per cent of the voters were involved in the vote and more than half of the voters in the referendum. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3, and para. 4. When the referendum was produced at the same time as elections for MPs or members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, the proposal under the referendum was adopted if more than half of the real votes cast in the country and abroad for the respective kind of choice. (3) When the referendum was produced at the same time as elections for President and Vice-President of the Republic, the proposal under the referendum was adopted if more than half of the actual votes cast at the first round in the country and abroad were accepted. (4) When the referendum was produced at the same time as general elections for municipal councillors and mayors, the proposal, subject to the referendum, is accepted if more than half of the real votes cast in all electoral districts in the elections for municipal councilors and outside the country from the referendum. The total number of actual votes cast in the elections for municipal councilors and outside the country from the referendum is determined by the Central Election Commission on the basis of the minutes received by municipal electoral committees and by the sectional electoral committees outside the country. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 5. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: When in the vote under para. 1 have participated more than 20 percent of the citizens with electoral rights and more than half of the participants in the referendum, the proposal under the referendum is submitted to the National Assembly and is dealt with in accordance with art. 52. 5. The creation of para. 7. When in the vote under para. 2, 3 or 4 with the......................................................................................................... 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u132	Statements? Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u133	Dear colleagues! I withdraw this proposal from me and my colleague Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u134	Mr. Chukolov, you have the floor. There is no proposal, it has been withdrawn, but there is a proposal by Mr. Slavov and the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u135	I'm not withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u136	You are not withdrawing it, so the Commission's proposal will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u137	Have you specified what we're withdrawing and what we're putting in?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u138	Yes, we have, and we are clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u139	Honourable Members, the position of the Ataka Party on the referendums in Bulgaria is clear. Since our very creation, we have always insisted that the Bulgarian people be asked to give their opinions about the things that actually concern them. When we entered the European Union when we entered NATO, did anyone then make a referendum? Let me just remind you that in the European Union, the countries we call educational democracies do referendums when something really affects the future of the nation. Thus referendums were made on NATO in a number of countries and on membership of the European Union. We also insisted on the Lisbon Treaty being made such a referendum in Bulgaria. Just let the Bulgarian citizens speak their minds. Now, for example, I am reminding myself that there is a treaty coming to be concluded - a Transatlantic and economic agreement with the United States, which will really do a lot of things in Bulgaria to determine how to develop, but again no one will ask the Bulgarian people what we are doing. This has been and is our cause to do as many referendums as possible, to make this process, this mechanism such that the Bulgarian citizen really has the feeling within himself that his voice is being heard. In 2012, we tabled an amendment to this law, which we are discussing at the moment. We have tabled a number of amendments that we wanted to reduce the number of signatures needed to initiate a referendum, the threshold to be lowered, to really make this law work, because we know perfectly well that over the years there have been speeches from a number of parliamentary groups and political leaders who said: Bulgarian people do not understand these things, not to ask them about it, we cannot ask such things, we cannot ask the simple Bulgarian citizen, you know, to concern his thinking with such issues. We here, MPs, you see, are so smart, educated and intelligent that we can talk about everything and decide everything. But we at Attack think otherwise. And here, as I told you, since 2012, we have tabled these amendments to this law. We offered them here and on para. 3 every Wednesday we have offered them to you, rejected them, rejected them. Why? Because let's not ask the Bulgarian people. However, President Plevneliev has now decided that there should be a referendum. He has decided, you see, President Plevneliev, he decides these things and initiates a referendum. And now here the Bulgarian National Assembly is looking at the amendment of Rosen Plevneliev. This is exactly what we are looking at right now. Here we have to make it so that it is very conjunctural, which President Plevneliev has decided, if the Bulgarian people can decide, because he suggests. Naturally, the pathetic Bulgarian people say what? We tried this, we tried that, the king, Boyko, Moiko, everyone else, let's see what President Plevneliev has to offer. And what does Plevneliev really propose? Majority choice. And once this is accepted, in this room to have BSP, GERB and a little DPS, and everyone else, if they like somewhere else, because we already have a majority element here?! What are we gonna do? We're gonna fill this room with folk dancers and chalga singers, is that what we're gonna do? [[(Shouting from the hall:]] No! That's exactly what you want to do. That's exactly what you want to do! The example we need to give is this. In France, the party with which we maintain relations, you know perfectly well about Marin Le Pen, there is about 30% support. But when it comes to majority elections, of course, they all unite against bad nationalists and vote against them. President Plevneliev has now decided to do so in Bulgaria. We're against it! Because it cannot be used, it cannot thus be delivered the right of Bulgarian citizens to vote and to give their vote preferentially. This is no way to lie to Bulgarian citizens. And here is this amendment - Rosko Plevneliev - which, I hope, you will not accept - is precisely why we will once again lie to the Bulgarian people. And the Bulgarian people have to be asked, again I tell you, about NATO; they have to be asked about the Transatlantic Trade Agreement; they had to be asked about the European Union; they had to be asked about the Lisbon Treaty; they had to be asked about what we from If the Law is now changed in the way that we from "Attack" offer, and if the necessary 48 signatures from the MPs are collected, we will be able to decide whether Bulgaria should be a member of NATO or not, of this organization, which, you well know, what ugly things and what dirt it does. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You don't accept this, but here we are inclined to accept the amendment. We at Ataka are against this and will vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u140	A line? I won't. According to the order of raising your hands, Mr. Zablyanov follows. Stanilov, Yanaki Stoilov, Belemezov. You're giving up, Mr. Zablyanov. I'm going to alternate groups, coworkers, there's a lot of enlisters. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us first, before I formulate my proposal, make a clarification on how we are going to proceed. As far as I understand from the importers of the proposal made, which is supported by the Commission, they want to withdraw it. In view of both their will and the procedure, we should be voting for the drop of the paragraph, but my proposal..................... is.......................................................................... 2 to c. 5 and let's vote separately for t. 1. Because t. 1 reproduces what we were discussing a short time ago the unaccepted proposal to establish 40% participation by citizens with electoral rights as a condition for the validity of the referendum. We continue to maintain this position of ours and insist that the assessment of the validity of the referendum be made on its own, not in view of whether it is held together with one election or another, or only a referendum is held. For this reason, if you keep t. 1 of the Commission's proposal, in which I propose to drop the initial part of the sentence, which is when the referendum was not produced at the same time as elections and to remain the text: The proposal covered by the referendum is adopted if the vote took place no less than 40 percent of the voters' citizens and with the "da" have claimed more than half of the voters involved in the referendum. I will not make further arguments, they have already been given. I think the importers of the proposal have also realized how inappropriate what they are proposing, especially in para. 4. Simply put, if we have to add five apples and three pears and divide them in half, these three pears are enough to say that the final result satisfies us. You see, I think that this argument is no longer necessary for us to collect votes for councillors with votes for a referendum from abroad. More conjunctural proposals can hardly be invented. I do not know whether the initiator of the referendum has really suggested these ideas or they are in his service, but I believe that, although lately, the Commission realises, I would say, the ridiculousness of such an approach. We will therefore support the dropping of these proposals. It makes no sense, especially when it is not about parliamentary and European elections, that those involved in these elections serve as a base along with any other supplements or subtractions to determine the required number of voters. Graduating, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u142	You are making proposals for a separate vote on...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u143	Yeah, on t. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u144	On the paragraphs of point...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u145	Yeah, t. 1 which refers to para. 1 with that partial drop at the beginning of the text, and we support the removal of the rest of the paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u146	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u147	Procedure, may I?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u148	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest that you end the debate on this proposal, moreover, it has been explicitly stated by the importers that it has been withdrawn. There's no point in having a debate about a withdrawn proposal because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u150	It has been partially withdrawn in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u151	Yes, it is not supported by the will of an importer. To the extent that we have a Commission decision on legal matters, yes, it is logical that this decision of the Commission should be voted on as it was. I request an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u152	Inverse opinion Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I'm making a reverse offer. At least there are several colleagues who have signed up, and so far we have only heard one statement. Much longer and irrigation were discussed this morning far less important texts. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, given these proposals that have stood so far and were not expected to be withdrawn, we have, in practice, not adopted any proposal to reduce the threshold of validity. If we reject this too, it will remain the status quo, which is what it is right now, what it seems to me that no one in this room wants, and the people outside this room don't want at all. That is why I am making this reverse proposal and I am paying attention, Madam President, to your opinion here, too, as far as I am concerned, which amends these proposals, it is permissible without my consent to withdraw it without voting. I didn't give consent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u154	I have announced, Mr. Slavov, that since your proposal is reproduced in a Commission proposal and we have a Commission proposal anyway, I will put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u155	It's an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u156	I shall put to the vote the motion to end the debate under Paragraph 8... we shall vote on the procedure. They voted 145 MPs: 101, against 32, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. The debates are closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u157	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u158	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. The debates had not actually started yet, and this proposal by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs has ended. In fact, we are now going to adopt some texts, practically a wooden iron. Either there's representation or there isn't. With the proposals on which we ended the debate, we are binding a national issue on a national referendum...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u160	You have heard, Mr Popov, that these proposals have been withdrawn, and I hope that, in the vote in plenary, my fellow Members will comply with the fact that they have been withdrawn and there are virtually no such proposals. It's all about the importers all § 8 have withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u162	We are now going to vote on the Commission's version. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov proposed a separate vote on point 1 of the other points on the Commission text for § 8. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 160 MPs: 58, against 80, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u163	Colleagues, I asked for a re-vote because I myself wanted to make such a proposal for a split vote. Now I pay attention to you that if we reject everything, the thresholds will remain the way they are now in the Law. At least 40% to reduce the threshold, as they expect, I would say, a huge part of the Bulgarian citizens, I think a lot of people in this room too. This is at least what we can do after colleagues from GERB have withdrawn the other proposal and will obviously not be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u164	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 162 MPs: 55 against 91, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 8 of the Commission report. The proposal has been withdrawn, but I am obliged to put it to the vote, as this is an amendment of the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 163 MPs: 23, against 65, abstentioned 75. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening. Give me some dynamics, Mr. Kirilov. [[Laughter, excitement, single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u165	Mrs. Chairman, I've taken a reprimand from you. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 5h is being created: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be 1. In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." concerning the rights of Bulgarian citizens. 2. The creation of para. 5. A local referendum may not reject or contradict laws or decisions of the National Assembly, as well as decisions of the Council of Ministers on matters of national importance. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u166	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u167	Procedure. Mr. Chairman, I suggest we put an end to the debate on this text. I am not proposing that we terminate them until the end of the bill, because it is already very much pointless. We have made changes to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government, which do not change anything, except that they allow Bulgarian citizens outside the country to vote in a referendum. I will not comment on the effect of this proposal and the costs for it, so this most important part has been made. There are no other changes to the substance. Here is a proposal from colleagues who offer relief in terms of the conditions for initiating a local referendum, which the Commission has supported, to support it, and to end it more quickly for another five to ten minutes, with this bill. Thank you. I am proposing to end the speeches on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u168	Mr. Stoilov, your proposal is premature because the debate on this text has not yet been opened. When we find the debate and there is at least one statement, then, Mr. Stoilov, I will put your proposal to the vote. Colleagues, any comments on Mr. Kadiev's proposal? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposal to create a new § 5h, which the Commission does not support. They voted 134 MPs: 21, against 53, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u169	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 5i is being created: § 5i. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 and the expression "one-five' is replaced by "one-six-six'. 2. In para. 1 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." An initiative committee with the signatures of not less than one 40th of the citizens with electoral rights who have a permanent address on the territory of the municipality, region or town hall concerned at the time of the entry of the proposal in the register, but not more than 15 000 signatures. 3. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Municipal Council shall adopt a decision to produce a local referendum where it is requested by an initiative committee with a signature containing the signatures of not less than one twenty of the citizens with electoral rights in the municipality, region or town hall concerned, but not more than 30 000 signatures, and shall not be contrary to the restriction under art. 26, para. 2, 4. 4. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: If, within two months of a decision of the municipal council, an initiative committee with a signature containing the signatures of not less than one thirty of the citizens with electoral rights of the municipality concerned, but not more than 20 000 signatures, requested a referendum to be produced to approve the decision, the mayor of the municipality shall set the date of the referendum. The referendum must be produced within two months of the receipt of the request. When elections are expected or another referendum is scheduled within one year of the decision of the Municipal Council, the referendum and the upcoming elections are produced on the same date. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Maya Manolova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the "1." In para. 1, t. 3 the words "one twentyth" shall be replaced by "one thirtyth." 2. In para. 2 the words "one tenth" shall be replaced by "one twentyth."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u170	Statements? Since Mr. Kadiev's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, has there been any who wish to make speeches on it? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposals, not supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 1 against 57, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Now a debate on Mrs. Manolova's proposal, which the Commission supports and the rapporteur Mr. Kirilov offered us a specific version. You want the floor, Mrs. Manolova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u171	Honourable Members, Madam President! The proposal that I have made and which my colleagues from the Legal Committee supported is to reduce the number of signatures for holding a local referendum on a optional one, which depends on the assessment of the Municipal Council and the compulsory one. I believe that it would be consistent behaviour of the National Assembly if, after reducing the required number of signatures to initiate a national referendum, we also do so in relation to the local referendum. Moreover, people's problems, especially on the ground, in the particular municipality, are of such a nature, that it would be good if they were involved in solving any issue at issue. I think this will stimulate local referendums, this will make the local authorities even closer to the people, that it will work in their interests. And I would be grateful if you would support this proposal of mine. After all, it is in the interests of the citizens of your municipalities. Thus, after we have completed the long examination of this law, there will be at least three things that we have done in reality: one is to vote Bulgarians abroad for national referendums; the second reduction in the number of signatures to initiate a national referendum so that we can say that we have made this relief for people who will want to hold local referendums. Thank you. I have made these explanations to explain that they are consensual and that it is nothing that could possibly be in the interests of one political force or another but is in the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u172	- What's the line? We are voting § 9 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 40, against 11, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're proposing a re-vote. To remind you that the threshold for organising a national referendum has been lowered from 500 to 400 thousand. It is logical to reduce this threshold for the initiative to hold a local referendum. You haven't changed the terms of validity. This will not happen for local referendums either. It is logical in one direction to develop these anyway, as I have already had the opportunity to say, minimalized proposals that do not create any special conditions for the development of direct democracy, but still not to underestimate the little that has been made and which can be achieved through this proposal. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u174	It's a re-vote. They voted 114 MPs: 40 against 35, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, report the two proposals to Mr. Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u175	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 5j is being created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 4 A sentence is created second: "When, within one year of the decision of the Municipal Council, elections are expected or another referendum is scheduled, the referendum and the upcoming elections are produced on the same date." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 5k is being created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 31 is amended as follows: Art. 31. (1) The municipal council may edit, in consultation with the importers under art. 27, without altering the meaning of the proposal to produce a local referendum issue or questions, as well as their order. If the Standing Committees of the Municipal Council and the importers do not agree on the text and order of the questions within the time limit laid down in art. 30 para. 2, a final decision shall be taken by the relevant administrative court. (2) If the Municipal Council finds that the issue is unlawful, by a reasoned decision it shall refuse the production of a local referendum. (3) The municipal council may, by a reasoned decision, not accept the proposal to produce a referendum, except for the cases under art. 27, para. 2, provided that the requirements of art. 26, para. 2 and para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u176	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on Mr. Kadiev's proposals for the creation of new paragraphs 5j and 5k, unsupported by the Commission, reminds me of Mr. Tsochev. We vote. They voted 109 MPs: for 4, against 45, abstention 60. The proposals have not been accepted. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u177	Please allow Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber. Please, the Quaestors, invite the parliamentary groups. I expect Mr. Kirilov as rapporteur or someone else to continue on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u178	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 3 A new sentence is created third: In support of the issue or questions of the referendum and of the alternative position parties, coalitions and committee initiatives can be registered, and the previous sentence third becomes a fourth sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u179	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10 in its version on the Commission report. Cancel the vote. I'm asking for the roll call list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here... There's a quorum. In addition they have entered: Anton Dolapchiev, Ayhan Etem, Anna Alexandrova, Anton Trenchev, Atanas Merdjanov, Valentin Nikolov, Ventzeslav Kaymakanov, Dobromir Prodanov. I shall put to the vote § 10 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 127 MPs: 96, against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u180	There was a proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it in principle. There has been a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev to create a new § 6: 6a. Article 41 is amended as follows: Art. 41. (1) The municipal committee for the referendums summarizes the data of the referendum produced and announces the results of the vote. (2) The proposal which is the subject of the referendum is adopted if no less than 25 percent of the citizens with electoral rights have participated in the vote and if more than half of the voters who participated in the referendum have voted in the vote. (3) If the proposal subject to the referendum is not accepted, a local referendum on the same issue may be initiated no earlier than two years from the date of its production. (4) Where less than 25 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights have participated in the vote, but more than 15 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights, and if more than half of those who participated in the referendum have voted in the vote, the referendum proposal shall be submitted to the Municipal Council, which shall, within two months, rule on the matter of the referendum. The municipal council may reject the decision of the referendum by a qualified majority of two thirds of all MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. There was a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Svilen Ivanov to create § 6a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal has been made by the National Representative Maya Manolova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The proposal, subject to the referendum, is adopted if no less than 40 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights in the municipality concerned and with the municipality concerned have claimed more than half of the voters who participated in the referendum. 2. A new para is being created. 3: When the referendum was produced at the same time as general elections for municipal councillors and mayors, the proposal under the referendum was adopted if more than half of the real votes cast in the municipality in the municipal councillors' elections were accepted. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u181	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I'm voting on Mr. Kadyev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 126 MPs: 11 against 46, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 11. Vote 128 MPs: 113, against 12, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u182	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u183	Are there any speeches, colleagues? Anblock, we vote on the name of the division and § 7 by importer, which is supported by the Commission with a new numbering of § 12. They voted 135 MPs: 104, against 12, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u184	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: "C § 7' shall be added at the end, with the exception of paragraphs 5a, 5b, 5c, 5d, 5e, 5f, which shall enter into force from 1 June 2016. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev for the creation of § 8: ................................................................................... A new § 6: ........................................................... The Central Election Commission shall, by 1 June 2016, adopt the procedures for conducting electronic voting in national referendums and referendums and shall establish an electronic voting system which: - ensure easy and understandable access to electronic voting mechanisms and ways, including easy access for voters with specific physical needs; - offers the voters instructions for the necessary actions in carrying out the electronic vote; - ensure continuous service connection to the electronic voting register; - ensure that only those actively selective and duly registered voters can vote; - ensure that voters who vote remotely will not have additional costs outside the usual internet or digital telephone communication costs; - ensure reliable and rapid identification of the identity of voters; - provides the same volume and quality information for each of the decisions put in a referendum; - ensure the secret of the vote and, respectively, the free volition of voters; - prevent the purchase and manipulation of votes, as well as any other uncontrolled influence on the electoral process; - enables easy navigation of user software; - does not require special skills from the voter other than those necessary for the use of the Internet; - allows the use of standard browsers when voting through internet terminals; - provides the possibility of electronic voice submission for no more than three minutes; - ensure that each voter casts only one vote for each type of choice, and that each vote is stored and counted exactly one time; - conforms to the highest class of standards of quality and sustainability of the equipment and software used; - ensure maximum reliability against external interference and unauthorised access, including against hacking; - in the event of an interruption of the electoral process due to the occurrence of insurmountable external obstacles preserves the voting data and allows its continuation after removal of the obstacles; - enables the summary of the results and their sending in electronic form to regional electoral committees and to the Central Election Commission as soon as the vote is concluded; - ensures the integrity and secrecy of the transferred information through encryption of the data and protection of communication links; - maintain an electronic diary of the electoral process with an indication of all peculiarities and deviations from the intended regime; - ensure easy maintenance of the apparatus and quick removal of the resulting technical malfunctions; - allows monitoring of the electoral process by independent authorised authorities; - allows audit and verification by authorised authorities. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u185	Statements? I won't. Anblok, I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposals to create paragraphs 7 and 8, which are not supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 16 against 61, abstention 56. The proposals have not been accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANK NON-CONSTITUTION. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u186	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 554-01-135, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 July 2015. At a meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by Lazar Iliev and Rosen Angelchev Syndicates of Corporate Commercial Bank (in bankruptcy), Tsvetelina Georgieva The bill was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. The existing Bankruptcy Act has been in force since 2002. Compared to the banking system nowadays, banks have at that time carried out their activities with a significantly smaller asset and liability and with a smaller number of clients, both investors and borrowers. The development of lending and payment services has led to a significant development of the banks themselves and to an increase in the number of their customers. The time limits and procedures in force for the execution of the powers of the trade union aimed at the fair satisfaction of creditors do not take into account the large number of depositors and other creditors whose rights and legitimate interests should be protected in the opening of insolvency proceedings of a bank. In this sense, the proposed changes are aimed at the use of modern technologies and, in particular, the functioning system of the Commercial Register to create a mechanism for faster informing the depositors and other creditors of a bank in insolvency proceedings of the circumstances relating to the exercise of their rights as creditors of the bank. The current law contains a complex and clumsy procedure for examining creditors' objections to accepted and/or unpaid claims. The procedure implies a personal notification to the opposing creditor and the creditors concerned of the opposition, the holding of an open meeting with the participation of the trade union and a new notification to interested parties of the decision of the trade union. The proposed changes aim at setting up a new procedure for the disclosure of the lists of creditors of a bank in insolvency proceedings and, accordingly, a procedure for the examination of creditors' objections to inclusion or non-appliance of claims on the list to take account of the problems arising from the large number of creditors in the insolvency proceedings of a bank. With the entry into force of 1 January 2007, the Commercial Register Act allowed for public announcement of acts, communications, etc. concerning each of the traders, including the opening of liquidation or insolvency proceedings for the same. The replacement of the current quasi-judicial proceedings before the trade union is envisaged to examine objections to the list of accepted claims in closed session without calling on the parties. The change will not lead to a breach of the rights of the interested parties as the decisions of the trade union are subject to a dispute before the insolvency court. At the same time, the change makes it possible to shorten the time that would normally be necessary for the individual notification of a large number of creditors and in this way to achieve a real acceleration of production. The proposed amendments to the Independent Financial Audit Act introduce a clear vote when deciding to revoke the right to carry out an independent financial audit and to waive the right to carry out audit activities. It is envisaged that the rules, procedures and plans to control the quality of the activity of registered auditors are developed jointly by the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors and the Management Board of the Institute of Graduated Accountants, thus aiming to fully implement the relevant supervisory powers of both bodies in accordance with their competences. For non-compliance with obligations under the Independent Financial Audit Act, it is envisaged the introduction of stricter sanctions aimed at achieving a preventive effect on registered auditors to comply with the law, as well as to sanction them in the case of administrative infringements. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:................................ 15 MPs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 554-01-135, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 July.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the group of importers, you are in charge. Would anyone like to argue with the report? I won't. Thank you. My fellow Members, I am opening a debate on the proposed bill at first reading. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 554-01-135, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 July 2015. Voting mode. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please put to the vote the period between first and second readings of the bill adopted at first reading is three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u189	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 112 MPs: for 103, against 7, abstention 2. The procedural proposal has been accepted. the following point: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 29 APRIL 2015 TO ADVANTAGE THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO THE AUDIT OF APPLICATION: EFFICIENCY AND EFFICIENCY OF THE BANKS OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK FOR THE PERIOD 1 JANUARY 2012 TO 31 DECEMBER 2014 We have a report from the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u190	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 29 April 2015 on the delegation of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the implementation: The effectiveness and effectiveness of the banking supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014, No 554-02-59, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly of 15 July 2015 At a meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Court of Auditors: Tsvetan Tsvetkov The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. By Decision of 29 April 2015, the National Assembly commissioned the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the implementation: The effectiveness and effectiveness of the banking supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. In the course of carrying out the audit task, the Court of Auditors' team faces significant difficulties on a daily basis relating to: 1. the provision of information by the Bulgarian National Bank due to insufficiently clear access, use and disclosure of documents containing banking and professional secrecy; 2. taking into account the sensitivity of the information and the voltage generated in the management of the Bank's supervision, the audit team shall carry out checks on the documentation of the supervisory inspections and remote supervision carried out to the banks involved in the audit sample in the presence of the managers and available members of the relevant supervisory teams; 3. leave key management employees..Bank 4. frequent absences of employees from management "Bank supervision" due to official commitments and personal reasons; 5. not a good organisation of document turnover requiring multiple requirements of information, including on the part of different employees; 6. significant volume of information from remote surveillance carried out, on-the-spot inspections imposed supervisory measures, regulatory provision and legal services and so on requiring special knowledge of analysis and evaluation. In view of the qualitative and precise application of audit procedures and the requirements of internationally recognised audit standards and high levels of public sensitivity on matters relating to the performance of supervisory activities, the deadline for carrying out the audit and the deadline for submitting the final report to the National Assembly should be extended. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 15 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt a Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 29 April 2015 on the award to the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the implementation: The effectiveness and effectiveness of the banking supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014, No 554-02-59, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 July 2015. If you'll allow me, I'll read the Project Decision as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u191	Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u192	Project! DECISION amending the National Assembly Decision of 29 April 2015 authorising the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the implementation: The effectiveness and effectiveness of the banking supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period 1 January 2012. by 31 December 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED amends the National Assembly Decision of 29 April 2015 authorising the Court of Auditors to audit the implementation: The effectiveness and effectiveness of the banking supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank for the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. (DV, No. 32 from 2015) such as: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "three months' shall be replaced by "five months'; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "August 31, 2015" shall be replaced by "October 30,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate, fellow Members. We are voting on the proposals Project for a decision read just now by the MP Mrs. Stoyanova. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision shall be adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT FOR THE ADMISSION OF THE COUNCIL DECISION OF 26 May 2014 ON THE SYSTEM OF OWN RESOURCES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (2014/436/EU, EURATOM). Reports from the Committee on Budget and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision adopting Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources, No 502-03-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. At a meeting held on 16 July 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister, Marinela Petrova Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate. The draft decision was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova. The system of the European Union's own resources shall ensure the financing of policies and activities under the general budget of the European Union. The application of the system of own resources shall be governed by a decision of the Council of the European Union, the provisions of which are directly applicable in the Member States. In accordance with art. Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU) in conjunction with Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) in conjunction with Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) 11 of Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources, namely Decision on own resources, after the adoption of that Decision by the Council of the European Union, it should be approved by all Member States in accordance with their constitutional requirements. Each Member State should then immediately notify the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union of the completion of the procedure. The decision on own resources defines the types of own resources and the methods for calculating them. It lays down the own resources ceiling for payments under the European Union budget (1,23 per cent of the European Union's gross national income), the ceiling for the commitments made?1.29 per cent of the European Union's gross national income, and the principles of the Correction Mechanism for the benefit of the United Kingdom and certain other Member States, as well as their financing. The changes in the own resources system for the new programming period 2014-2020 are: 1. The percentage of traditional own resources collected which remains in the Member States to cover the administrative costs of collecting traditional own resources from 25 per cent to 20 per cent shall be reduced. 2. Small changes in the temporary adjustments, namely: for Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, a reduced rate of 3. A new provision has been included in the Decision on Own Resources, which provides for the establishment of a regulation implementing it on the basis of art. 311, para. 4 TFEU. Council Regulation (EU) No 608/2014 (Euratom) of 26 May 2014 laying down measures for the implementation of the European Union's own resources system (EU) No 608/2014 (Euratom) of 26 May 2014 laying down more detailed measures for the implementation of the Decision on Own Resources, such as the calculation and budgeting of the balance or control and supervisory measures. Council Regulation (EU) No 609/2014 (Euratom) of 26 May 2014 on methods and procedure for the granting of traditional own resources, own resources based on value added tax and on gross national income and on measures to meet the cash needs, namely Regulation (EU) No As Decision 2014/335/EU (Euratom) enters into force, Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget is expected to rise slightly by about 2.89 per cent, according to data on 31 March 2015. The decision on own resources shall enter into force from the first day of the month following receipt of the last notification and shall apply from 1 January 2014. Until the entry into force of the new decision, which is expected to take place in 2016, the system of own resources shall be regulated by the Council Decision of 7 June 2007 and the legislation in force for its implementation. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this context, it is expected that in 2016 the European Commission will make adjustments to the Member States' contributions for the period 2014 - 2016. The expected increase in Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget is already included in the forecast for the spending part of Bulgaria's budget for 2016. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 13 votes for the European Union, without the opposition and 2 votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a draft decision adopting a Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. Accordingly, I should also read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u195	You don't have to read it, it's in the next report. Thank you. Mr. Tanchev, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, please take the view in which there is also the draft decision that you can read. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! "COMMODITY" on Draft Decision of the National Assembly on Adoption of Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources, No 502-03-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 July 2015. At its regular meeting held on 15 July 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a draft decision of the National Assembly adopting a Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources submitted by the Council of Ministers. Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Ms. Marinela Petrova, Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance took part in the committee meeting. I. This draft decision of the National Assembly is proposed to adopt a decision to implement the procedure for the adoption of the Council Decision on the EU's own resources system by Bulgaria. In accordance with art. 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in conjunction with Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 11 of the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014European Union, Euratom) s Decision on own resources, this procedure requires that the Decision be approved by all Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. Following that procedure, it is therefore necessary to inform the Secretary-General of the Council. According to the provisions of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly must rule on the Decision on own resources given its subject matter, as well as the fiscal impact for our country on the amount of our contribution to the EU budget. II. It should be borne in mind that the Union's own resources system provides resources for the financing of policies and activities under the general budget of the EU. The system of own resources introduced in 1970 should undergo changes approved by the Council of the EU on 26 May 2014 in relation to the programming period 2014-2020. The new EU legislation on the system of own resources during the period 2014-2020 includes the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of own resources of the European Union. 311 TFEU and defining the types of own resources and the methods for their calculation, Regulation (EU) No 608/2014 (Euratom) laying down measures for the implementation of the system of the European Union's own resources, adopted on 26 May 2014, by qualified majority after agreement of the European Parliament, pursuant to art. 311(4) TFEU; Council Regulation (EU) No 609/2014 (Euratom) on methods and procedure for the provision of traditional own resources, VAT-based own resources and GNI-based own resources and on measures to meet the cash needs - Regulation on 332, para. 2 TFEU. III. Last but not least, with the entry into force of Decision 2014/335/EU (Euratom), Regulation (EU) No 608/2014 (Euratom) and Regulation (EU) No 608/2014 (Euratom) No 609/2014 (Euratom) is expected to increase Bulgaria's contribution to the EU budget by about 2.89 percent. In this regard, in 2016, the European Commission should make adjustments to the Member States' contributions for the period 2014-2016 and the projected increase for our country is calculated in the 2016 budget forecast. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a decision with the following text: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union HAS DECIDED Takes the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom)); Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u197	Thank you. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will say right from the start that we will support this project. It was voted on 7 February 2013 in the Council of Europe, confirmed on 26 May 2014, i.e. two different governments. We are one of the few countries that has not ratified this agreement. So we won't make an exception, we'll support it. However, honourable Members, I would like to warn you about something that is important and we should bear it in mind in our future work. With these words, I would like to tell you that Bulgaria, along with these agreements, has immediate direct losses of about 35 million. lv. Why? I do not know if you understand that until now from the customs activity at the border of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is a country along the borders of the European Union from what is collected as customs duties, 25% remained in the budget of Bulgaria. With this decision will now remain about 20%. This concerns all countries that are at the borders of the European Union. But there is one small feature. The large countries have again been tricky in the negotiations at our expense, because in Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, for example, they reduce their contribution to gross domestic product by 0.15%, which is much more absolute than the 5% cut in the budget of these countries alone from customs duties. So this change from 25 to 20% with the preferences that are given to Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands and also do not change the UK's contribution to the rich UK, in fact our contribution to the European Union, apart from the reduced customs revenue, is up 2.89 percent, that is, by almost 3%, which automatically leads us to losses of 26-27 million additional. What do I mean in conclusion? I mean, we should all feel responsible. Come on, enough of all the agreements that we sign here and ratify in parliament and sign the Bulgarian state, if we look at the past years, most of these agreements are a loss for the Republic of Bulgaria. What does that mean? This means, honourable Members, that we should demand from the Bulgarian governments when the negotiations begin and discuss the signing, then they should inform us in Parliament and specialized committees of what they sign and how they protect the Bulgarian interests, and not ask us here at the last moment to vote for decisions that are to the detriment of the Bulgarian state in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u199	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u200	I want to do two lines to Mr. Gechev. My first line is that the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules and Laws, may and should consider precisely in the course of the negotiations the position of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is no coincidence that, as a Budget Committee, every year, we decide on which topics we will hear respectively the Ministry of Finance for the course of negotiations to support one position or another. So it is a matter of our discretion, and I think this should happen in 2014 when these negotiations are under way. As for your second statement, Mr. Gechev, you're right, this will really increase Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget. However, when these negotiations are under way, we must say that any sources could stabilise revenue in the European Union budget were sought. And we all know what the amounts of the European Union budget are mainly spent on, including for the various operational programmes, as we know in the previous programming period, as well as on the other. If we compare Bulgaria with what it brings into the European Union budget and what it receives as a budget the opportunity to use the operational programmes, we will see that we are not at a loss. In any case, we are one of the countries that are actually dominated by the rich countries, as you have quoted and which are reduced by 0.15% of the contribution to their gross national product. That is, although we will have an increase in expenditure in the state budget compared to what Bulgaria could get, if it does its job well, this repeatedly exceeds our contribution to the European Union budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u201	Thanks for the line. I don't see anyone for a second line. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u202	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! I'd say I'm almost 90% on board and we don't get away with what I'm saying. I simply appeal to those who represent Bulgaria, regardless of which party they are, to be more careful and to defend the Bulgarian interests, as other countries have been able to protect. As far as the net effect is concerned, you're right. We really get a net of almost BGN 2.5 billion. more annual than the European Union, but not to get into discussion. Because to be precise, this is what we get more from the European Union, but if I start telling you now what we are losing from the fact that a number of Bulgarian industries have been spilled because of lower competitiveness and that trade chains are crushing and making 8 billion turnover in Bulgaria with foreign producers, the conversation will become different. But I agree with the net effect, and that is why we will support the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u203	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will also support this decision. I just want to say this. The system of own resources is a system that operates in several consecutive years and is used to determine the contributions of each EU country to the European budget. This system is assessed as unfair not only by Bulgaria, but also by many representatives at European level, there are serious calls to be processed and amended so as to be fairer in terms of poorer countries. I call on our government and all other governments from now on to work in this direction. Because the contribution to the European budget is a mandatory condition for the members of the European Union, unlike the funds that we benefit from the European Union. The funds are an opportunity for each country to use the funds set by the European Union while the contribution is compulsory. There are many comments regarding the use of the main indicators on the basis of which these contributions are calculated, namely gross national income. On this indicator there are significant differences between different European countries, which ultimately leads to a relatively higher contribution of countries with lower gross domestic product and lower gross national income, including Bulgaria. We will support this decision with this call to work towards developing a fairer system for determining the contributions of individual countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u205	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. We move on to a vote on: Project! DECISION adopting Council Decision of 26 May 2014. on the system of own resources of the European Union (2014/335/EU, Euratom) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union HAS DECIDED Takes the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources (2014/335/EU, Euratom)); Please, voting mode. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The decision shall be adopted unanimously with which this point is closed. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH ADVANTAGE. Importers: MPs Borislav Velikov, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva-Bancheva, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov, 8 July 2015. There is a report on the first vote by the Committee on Education and Science. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on a bill amending the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-129, submitted by Borislav Velikov, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva-Bancheva, Krasimira Kovachka, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov on 8 July 2015. At its regular meeting held on 15 July 2015, the Committee on Education and Science examined the said Bill. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," prof. Radoslav Gerchev from the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation and Assoc. Ljiljana Valcheva from the trade union. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova. It also complies with the need for extension in the 2015/2016 school year of the one given in 2010 and extended in 2012, 2013 and 2014 the possibility of state universities receiving high assessments in institutional accreditation to conduct training against payment under terms and conditions laid down in the Higher Education Act. This extension is expected to be applied for the last time until the new model of financing of higher education, proposed by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, enters into force. The overall change of the financing model represents an essential part of the reform of higher education and provides for a lasting legislative solution to the issue under discussion, which will be introduced after a broad public discussion. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science and of the Trade Union of Higher Education and Science at the CST supported the Law. The discussion included MPs Snezana Dukova, Stoyan Mirchev, Valeri Zablyanov, Milen Mihov, Mariana Georgieva, Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova. They united around the reasons that the only purpose of the bill is not to make it difficult for the public universities to adopt in this school year. The measure also responds to the interest in training in the Republic of Bulgaria of representatives of the Bulgarian communities abroad, as well as to citizens from other Member States of the European Union. MPs said they do not intend to make proposals between the first and second votes on the bill. After a vote with a result of 13 votes in favour, without the opposition and abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-129, submitted by Borislav Velikov, Milena Damyanova, Milena Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva - Bencheva, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov on 8 July 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-129, submitted by Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and in view of the lack of requests for proposals for amendment and supplement to the Law amending the Law on Higher Education, I am making a procedural proposal to hold a second vote on the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u209	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made to examine the Bill and at second reading. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH ADVANTAGE. Importers: MPs Borislav Velikov, Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva-Bancheva, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov and Valeri Zablyanov, submitted on 8 July 2015 and adopted on the first vote on 21 July 2015. Please report the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u210	The Law on Higher Education is amended as follows: (prom., D.V., No. ..) § 1. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to § 7: In para. 1 after the words..2013/2014.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... the following point is inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation In para. 3 after the words..2013/2014.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Final provision § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u211	Thank you. Please, colleagues, speeches under § 1 and § 2. I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the name "The Law amending the Higher Education Act" § 1 and § 2 presented just now by Mrs. Damyanova we are voting on the second reading proposals made. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The bill amending the Law on Higher Education, No 554-01-129, was adopted unanimously at second reading. Moving on to the last item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR Customs. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was admitted to the first vote on May 28th. This Decision shall Please report from Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u212	Thank you. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 502-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015, adopted on the first vote on 28 May 2015. The Act on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Tariffs. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u213	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Yankov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! § 1 makes a major change to the possibilities of the Customs Agency by adding a "operative and search activity'. By including the text in the Law, it is also assumed from the following texts that the authorities performing operational search activities are increasing. Adding police powers to detention and convoy, a new police structure is being established in the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable Members. It is better for the originators to point out that they do not trust the current police structures and make new ones they trust. The creation of parallel police structures in a small country such as the Republic of Bulgaria will create unhealthy competition, seizure of powers and creation of conditions for violation of the laws and rights of citizens. The formation of police structures creates prerequisites for feudalizing the activities of countering crime and chaos in planning this activity. The road is not about acquiring functions and creating police structures or different types of police for individual types of crime, but about improving the interaction and coordination of resources and capabilities used. Otherwise, any state structure will be tempted to request duplicate functions, activities and powers and create duplicate structures. For example, the DGSC, having legal powers to counter customs crimes, or the Economic Police, may propose to draw up customs acts or impose fines. It is adopted in the Bill after the concrete text that for individual types of crimes it is permissible to make fixed structures other than the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Police Departments with the text on the operational and search work. By this logic, we will now have a precedent and by moving towards the Anglo-Saxon precedent any state structure in the state control system can claim to deploy a police structure. The creation of a de jure of customs police creates conditions to continue the swarming of police structures. Dear colleagues, the National Revenue Agency can become the tax police. To the Ministry of Transport to create transport police on railway transport, because there is stealing, and not a lot of stealing of cables. The municipal police are to have units of operational and search activities for car thefts from the parking lot where they are established. Why not construction and surveillance police, travel police, forest police, beach police?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u215	Zoopolis!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u216	As well as the police on the types of crimes of the Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, we still need to remind ourselves of the meaning of some specific texts. The operational and search activities are essential, specific to the operational units of the police and of the SANS activity. It is carried out by specially trained civil servants through the application of legally regulated specific forms, methods, methods and means, the majority of which are silent. The operation of operational and search activities takes place in compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the country, respect for the rights, freedoms and dignity of citizens while at the same time having a secret character. A guiding principle in its implementation is the principle of conspiracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u217	Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u218	I'm graduating. Honourable Members, with the introduction of operational and search activities into the power of customs officers, we are creating, above all, a prerequisite for duplication of activities. I therefore call not to support this text of § 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u219	We get it, Mr. Yankov. Thank you. Any lines to the statement? General Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a line from the last thing you said, Mr. Iankov. Nowhere does the Bill provide for the customs authorities to carry out operational and search activities, to lead an agent or to apply special intelligence means. I don't see the conspiracy you're talking about here. The name of the activity may be contested. It may be quasi operational and search activity, but there is in no case any conspiracy in it, I repeat, because the authorities that carry out this activity will not be able to apply the specific means and methods characteristic of operational and search activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u221	Thank you, General Atanasov. Second line? There aren't any. Do you want a hole? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Atanasov, the proposals for operational and search activities with the submitted Draft Law at the Customs Agency can be interpreted as a signal of dissatisfaction with the work of the Ministry of Interior. The two departments of the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency have plans for joint actions which, perhaps in view of the changes observed in recent months in the structures of the Ministry of Interior, have not been implemented properly. Is that what you mean? The operational and search activity is a process that requires a long time period for its absorption and is characteristic of the Ministry of Interior. In other words, there is no guarantee that the employees of the Customs Agency will carry out operational and search activities more efficiently and more efficiently than the Ministry of Interior. And surely what is planned to be carried out by staff of the Customs Agency will not work immediately. Why, then, is some part of what you have taken as a replica of the operational and search activities to be included as opportunities for customs inspectors and officers of the Customs Agency? You understand the paradox itself of this proposal.. cannot perform in full operational and search activities, and at the same time we make such commitments and such an opportunity?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u223	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other statements under § 1? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate on § 1 and on the title. We are voting, honourable Members, the name of the Law and § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: 80 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u224	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Diana Yordanova, Evgenia Angelova and Vladislav Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the In the structure of the Customs Agency, an inspectorate is set up to be directly subordinate to the Director of the Agency for the control of the activities of the customs administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u225	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. We close the debate and vote on proposals from the Commission § 2. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u226	Under § 2 of the importer there is a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov: In Paragraph 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 10, the words "including the property representing a marital community' shall be replaced by the property of their spouses (wives), respectively, of the persons with whom they are in a cohabitation. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski, Tasco Ermenkov, Krasimir Yankov, Georgi Gokov, Rumen Gechev, Dimitar Gorov and Ivan Ivanov: In § 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. the created new para. 11 o'clock is out. 2. the created new para. 14 is out. 3. in case of failure to accept the proposal to drop the created new para. 14, in the text of the same word, the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied', and the word "supplied', in its three uses, is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of Art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: Within 14 days from the date of entry into office or entry into service, each calendar year until 31 May and upon termination of the service, customs officials shall be obliged to declare to the Director of the Office their property status, including the property representing the marital community, as well as the property status of the minor children with a model declaration established by the Director of the Customs Agency. 2. They're creating an al. 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15: In the case of appointment and promotion in the Office of Customs, the persons must have a positive result of a study of professional and psychological fitness. The terms and procedure for carrying out the study for professional and psychological suitability shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Finance. (12) The newly appointed staff in the specialized administration shall complete a basic training course at the National School of Customs. (13) For the performance of their duties, the staff of the Customs Agency shall have the right to uniform clothing, specialized working clothing or representative clothing cash for each calendar year under conditions and by order of the Director of the Customs Agency. (14) If official need be, the customs officer may be temporarily transferred to another or the same office within the customs administration. The transfer shall be carried out by order of the Director of the Customs Agency for a period of not more than 6 months in one calendar year under the conditions of secondment. Where the transfer is for a longer period, the written consent of the customs officer shall be required. In such cases, the customs officer shall receive a salary corresponding to the post held but not less than that received until the transfer. (15) In the event of the death of a customs officer, the Office of Customs shall bear the normal costs of the funeral of the employee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Mr. Slavov's statement, most likely on your unsupported proposal. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u228	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Our proposal actually concerns a retreat that we see in the proposed changes from the current provisions of the Law, namely at the moment, the Customs Act requires customs officials to declare the property to both their wives and their spouses. For me, at least for my colleagues in the Reformation Bloc, it is inexplicable why this change is being made and only property will be declared now, which is a marital financial community. And any sort of average literate lawyer can explain to you at least a few schemes how property belonging to the family can cease to be a marital financial community and be owned only by the wife. Therefore, it will not be declared. I am sure that enough competent consultants use, unfortunately, some employees of the Customs Agency probably use these tools. I suggest you, colleagues, don't do this retreat. Let us remain the current regime in which everything is declared as we declare it, as the magistrates declare it, as the prime minister declared it and so on, and not to create some relieved and quite questionable order for customs officers here. I pay attention, in fact, we have expanded to a certain extent what should be declared by borrowing from the Anti-Corruption Act that we adopted at first reading. In other words, in addition to the property of spouses and spouses, we believe that it is appropriate that a customs official living on a family basis with another such person should declare that property as well. That is to say, as it is written in the Anti-Corruption Law, and as it is in some part at the moment in the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, where, by the way, there is also a statement of what is actual cohabitation, since I realized that there was some wonder during the debates in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u229	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Tarnovalysky, most likely on your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We offer the newly born paragraphs 11 and 14 in art. Ten down. These are two paragraphs of which one concerns the transfer of employees to the Office of Customs and from one customs office to another. 11 concerns the taking of psychological exams at work or at posting. The reasons of the importers with regard to the relocation are to curb corruption. Colleagues, I guarantee you that this relocation will not only limit corruption, but the Customs Agency will lose its loyal, prepared employees. Why do I say that? Because there is no loyal and honest employee to be sent with an order from one customs office to another, to pay half the income he has to cover his expenses. From Vidin in Varna one employee with 800 BGN. must pay 400 leva. costs to carry out this order. Therefore, our proposal was to remove this text, moreover, that the Civil Service Act says that there could be a transfer from one state administration to another. There could be a reassignment in the same administration. If this text is not adopted, we have proposed that the relocation be replaced by secondment so that the costs of these employees they are doing can be covered in order to carry out their duties in the new place. The Commission did not accept this, but proposed that it be supplemented under the conditions of secondment. This text will not be working as the person reassigned in accordance with art. 82, there will be a new place of work from the example in Varna, and there is no way for these costs to be covered. This is just ridiculous, and it's not gonna happen. For those of you who are corrupt, that won't be a problem for them. Those who have not learned to steal, unfortunately, will put them in the conditions to do so in order to cover their costs, but apparently the purpose of this proposal is to clear the administration, according to everything. In relation to para. 11 In the case of appointment and promotion in the Office of Customs, we propose that the persons have a positive result, because the reasons of the importers are that the framework for competences to be covered for customs officers and in relation to the Arusha declaration is this proposal. In both documents, colleagues, no particular introduction of psychological research has been indicated or recommended anywhere, and they themselves as documents have no legal value, they do not have the power of regulation, as are regulations and directives, and only an official statement, even less grounds for amending the Law on the Civil Service. This proposal for changes introduced in the Law on the Civil Service and in the Customs Act actually introduces new requirements and they are contrary to the general spirit and principles of the public service. The provisions of the Civil Service Act introduce to all civil servants except those categories whose status is governed by a special law, as is the Ministry of Interior Act, the SANS Act and others, such special requirements. In these administrations there are also built structures that deal with these psychological researches, as is the Institute of Psychology at the Ministry of Interior. These increased additional requirements, colleagues, suggest a certain category of work. Of course, they are compensated by providing a higher level of stabilisation, higher pay when carrying the public service, as well as some additional social security and other benefits and privileges that are available in other administrations. This is missing in the Customs Office. The provisions of the Law on the Civil Service Act should be applied directly in the case of taking up office of a public office in customs, the customs administration, by law, and art. 10g says that the procedure and manner of holding a public service contest is determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers and this is a Regulation for the conduct of the public service contests, Ordinance No 8 of 2014. The requirements of the Law and the Ordinance are clear, so this text, colleagues [[the President signals that time has run out]] , ending, these texts seem to aim only at clearing up the uncomfortable in this administration and appointing their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u231	Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Anyone else? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the proposals made by colleagues, Slavov and Dimitrov. I understand their desire the employees of the Customs Agency to declare maximum property status, but, notice, colleagues, it is necessary that people who declare it and are responsible for false data in a declaration required by Law have the opportunity to have this data. If these are their paradigms in actual cohabitation, although there is a definition of actual cohabitation, first of all, it is difficult to prove this actual cohabitation exists or does not exist. Second, it does not in any way guarantee that the husband or wife in this cohabitation will know all the properties, shares, shares and so on of the people with whom they live in actual cohabitation. There is no legitimate reason to know it and we could not ask the customs officer to answer with criminal responsibility for not being able to declare or declare incomplete or false data. The same, unfortunately, applies to spouses, even though they are spouses in marriage, if they are not in a married financial community, but have taken advantage of the family code's ability to have a prenuptial agreement with divided property. Then in no case could one husband have a legal opportunity to certify, again I say, under the fear of penal responsibility, the property of his husband. That is why we have adopted this definition, which in practice enables it to be implemented correctly by the customs officer. With regard to the proposal made by the BSP colleagues, I first want to say that I do not see anything wrong with this when they enter the job or when they are promoted in office, the employees who apply for it to undergo such a test of professional and psychological fitness. The fact that it is not provided for in the Law on the Civil Service is not an obstacle in the special Law to record this, moreover, that, as you can see, we are also introducing functions of operational and search activities here. In general, customs officers work in an extremely different environment, especially at border crossings. There this environment is fundamentally different from the situation of a civil servant in the state administration, in ministries and departments, and these people should have the relevant psychological and professional suitability for this. And there's nothing wrong with settling this down at the entrance when they're taking part in the Customs Office. The fact that there are no specialized bodies similar to those in the Ministry of Interior and DANS can very easily by agreement their specialized bodies carrying out such research can also be used by the Customs Agency. As for the relocation, the transfer by order of the Director of the Customs Agency is not a reassignment and this in any case means a temporary transfer for six months in relation to certain requirements of the work. You know that such relocations are carried out both in the Ministry of Interior and in other structures that need to temporarily strengthen one or another of their posts. We therefore adopted in the end what Mr Turnovalyski was talking about that, in the context of a relocation, it follows the Customs Agency to bear the costs of the transferred employee, precisely in the amount of the travel expenses for this. Then, however, when the employee agrees and signs this agreement, this transfer can be made for a longer period of time, then it can be converted and then, naturally, cannot be under the conditions of secondment. So I think that this text, which the Commission adopted as an amendment, protects the rights of the customs officers who will be temporarily moved to another point, so I call on you to vote for the Commission's texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Slavov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Stoyanova, my reply to you is that very interestingly, since 2009 there has actually been a regime in which persons in actual cohabitation have been required to declare their property has been subsequently revoked. If this text about actual cohabitation is so disturbing, I am inclined and I use that I have taken the floor to withdraw it in the part in which it is said:........................................................................................ But let the text remain with regard to their wives or husbands, as we declare it, and as I can say, a great deal of those holding public office in this country already declare it. It seems to me that the argument that a husband cannot know his wife's property or vice versa is not serious. We're all declaring him in fear of penal responsibility. I don't see why customs officials have to make an exception. Let us also keep for them the order that works for so many high public positions in this country. I guess pretty soon, if anti-corruption law is passed, there's a legal definition of actual cohabitation there anyway, maybe we'll come back to this subject and it'll be extended. At this stage, I withdraw the part for persons with whom they are in actual cohabitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u235	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u236	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I cannot fully agree with you on the psychological suitability you care about so much. Such tests were carried out 2012 "2013." The result of these tests is visible. The last months and the last year how many arrested customs officers who have obviously passed these tests, we have as a fact. It's obviously not effective, but here it's aimed, once again, something else. With regard to the relocation, those employees who will be on a business trip must be given an order under the Civil Service Act, because they have a new place of work and I disagree with your arguments, but obviously you will accept that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u237	Thank you. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u238	Mr. Slavov, thank you for accepting my arguments about actual cohabitation, but I was very hoping that you would develop the marriage thesis, not in a family community, but in a divided property marriage. Whether or not one of the husbands could know about the property his husband owns. I don't think so. As for Mr. Turnovalyski's line, I definitely do not believe that the text on professional and psychological fitness is intended for anything else. Moreover, he, as you can see, is entered at the entrance at the time of entry of the customs officer to work, not for the evaluation or release of that officer. There is no objective other than that.. at the entrance to sift people who have such an ability to carry out this species other than the activities of any other civil servant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate on the paragraph and we're going to vote. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Slavov and Mr. Dimitrov in the sentence, respectively, to: the property situation of his spouse/wives, not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 30, against 13, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Procedure, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u240	Sorry, guys, I just need to say one sentence. I want a re-vote. When there is a prenuptial agreement, there is obviously one copy of the contract in both countries, and they know very well what property each country has, with which it has entered into the marriage. That, I think, is more than clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u241	Dear colleagues, we are revisiting Mr. Petar Slavov's proposal. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 39, against 21, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs... Please, Mr. Mihov, we have five more working minutes. Please be quiet in the hall. [[Laughter and excitement. A line from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] That doesn't mean the tone has to be higher. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Mr Turnovalyski and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: 22, against 60, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the vote on § 2, which, by the Commission's amendment, becomes § 3. They voted 107 MPs: 95, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u242	Paragraph 3 of the importing proposal of the MP Turnovalyski and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and supports it on t. 1. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 the words of the State shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 3 the words............................................................................................................. are replaced (b) c. 5 after the words the currency offences shall be commaed and the offences of excise legislation and crimes shall be added in the cases provided for in art. 194, para. 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. c) create t. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. carry out operational and search activities to prevent, detect and document crimes under art. 234, 242, 242a and 251 of the Penal Code and under art. 255 of the Criminal Code concerning VAT obligations on imports and excise duties; 15. carry out controls at border crossing points on the fulfilment of the obligation to pay road and wine charges and on compliance with the authorisation regime for freight and passenger transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Just to be clear, under § 3 the unsupported proposal of Georgi Turnovalyski. You said that one paragraph supports him and the other paragraph does not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u244	Point 2 is unsupported, point 1 is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u245	We have: The Commission does not support the proposal. Both points are unsupported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u246	There's been a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u247	Is the technical error with you or with us?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u248	The proposal of Mr. Turnovalyski and a group of MPs is supported by the following. 1 of the Commission, i.e. It is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u249	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thus, the proposed § 3 continues with the specific on the operational and search activities of the Customs Agency. There are no single perpetrators, so we are faced with two police structures that will take advantage of organised crime, and by adding operational and search activities to the Directorate General's Office of Border Police, it becomes interesting on the border. In view of the economic police, which is apparently forgotten that it exists and fights similar economic crimes, three police structures with identical activities become. My fellow Members, I would like to remind you of the votes in this House in February Law on the Ministry of Interior. Of the twelve activities of the Directorate General for Organized Crime, six activities will duplicate the operational and search activities of the customs. In this regard, the question is clear: will the composition of DGBOP be reduced by 50 percent of the current one? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 of the Ministry of Interior The General Directorate of Organized Crime is a national specialized structure for the implementation of the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1.3 in respect of organised criminal activity of local and transatlantic criminal groups related to: customs regime, monetary, tax and insurance system; narcotics, their analogues and precursors; genuine or falsified monetary signs, payment instruments and official documents; trafficking of persons, trafficking of cultural values, firearms, explosive, physical, biological and other general hazards and substances, as well as weapons, dual-use items and technologies. This is all about border work. The traditions of the police services in our country are in the direction of the police, one police in the Ministry of Interior. For example, the United States, after 9/11, united 16 agencies and established the Ministry of Homeland Security. With us the trend of swarming with vague or perhaps clearer and more transparent goals. The proposal of the Bill itself is from the Council of Ministers. Obviously, we as MPs are offered to unload the Minister of Interior in the face of Rumyana Bachvarova from work and responsibility. In fact, based on the fact that the Council of Ministers is an importer, we should be aware that it is very likely that Mrs. Bachvarova herself has supported and offered us the Customs Agency to provide us with a large part of the activities that depend on the Interior Ministry, which are in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Interior. If this is not the recognition of the government that the Ministry of Interior is not dealing with much of the replaced responsibilities and personally Rumyana Bachvarova cannot perform her duties, tell me what it is, colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u251	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. [[Heckling]] Go ahead, Mr. Genov. Just to remind you that the voting hours are running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u252	Mr. Chairman, my proposal is to extend the working time to the adoption of the Law, as it is of utmost importance to reduce corruption from the amendments we introduce in the Law in the customs system. Plus, colleagues, it's very warm out there, according to the forecast. I say we work here a little cooler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u253	Thank you, Mr. Genov, for the reasoned proposal. A reverse opinion? [[Replying and shouting.]] Back-up opinion, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, four seconds before the vote expires and the working time is accepted at 17.00, the speaker left the stand. Then we had debates with colleagues whether to extend the time or not, and somewhere around ten seconds, which is ten seconds after the scheduled working hours, this procedure was requested. I don't know if you have the right to put her to the vote right now. That's all I'm saying. I think you should take my procedure as a reverse opinion and not put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u255	Mr. Ivanov, thank you for the split second, as they say. I couldn't see if that was the case, but I am obliged, by my judgement, to put the proposal to the vote. We are voting on the procedure for extending the time until the adoption of the bill. They voted 93 MPs: 22, against 34, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. In the manner of conduct please, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u256	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking a procedure to tell my colleagues on the left who are screaming. We voted against it because if we vote for it and extend the working time after 17.00 and then accept the texts of the Law, gentlemen on the left can attack them and they will be illegally accepted. We cannot risk such a thing, so we voted against it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u257	Thanks, guys. Due to the expiration of the hours, I'm closing today's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-21.u258	Tomorrow's regular plenary session at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
