ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 I propose that, as point 1 today, we discuss and adopt a draft decision amending the Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates and choosing inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council adopted on 18 September 2015 by the National Assembly. It is an extension of the deadline for the offer of candidates and the submission of their documents. Please vote on the inclusion of this draft decision as a point. 1 in today's plenary session. Vote 120 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. On the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to hold an extraordinary plenary session on 6 October, Tuesday, from 11.00 to 18:00, with the agreement that some of the bills are included in the programme for today. If they are discussed and voted today, they will accordingly drop out of the Tuesday programme. It shall be on the following agenda: 1. First vote on the Bill of Accounting. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importers "St. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs; two bills of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Importer: Tuncher Kardzhaliev. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. Under the Law on Asylum and Refugees, the Bill on Access to Public Information and the Bill on Air Cleanliness, we are in criminal proceedings. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act. Importers Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. It also has the transposition of European norms and criminal procedure. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 120 MPs: 107 against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES AND SELECTION OF INSPECTORS TO THE HIGH COURT COUNCIL, adopted on 18 September 2015 by the National Assembly. Mr. Kirilov, please propose a draft decision on behalf of the importers who are members of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention a project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? amending the Decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and selecting inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council adopted on 18 September 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Section I, t. 1 of the Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and choosing inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council adopted on 18 September 2015 by the National Assembly, the words The project was proposed by members of the Legal Commission.. by me, Petar Slavov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov, Chetin Kazak, Yavor Haytov. The extension is required in relation to having more time for the organisation and preparation for nominations. You know that for this kind of choice we have to choose 10 inspectors with a qualified majority of two thirds. In order not to coincide with the election campaign, the proposal is to expire at least one week after the election campaign is completed. Madam President, let me also, in the text that we have proposed to the draft decision that I have read, make the following editorial amendment: where the words Thank you. [[Reply from Vice-President Yanaki Stoilov.]] The term is widely discussed in the professional guild. Make sure there's no doubt about it. [[Reply from Vice-President Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u3	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put to the vote, first of all, Mr Kirilov's editorial proposal made in the Chamber, and the text for replacement in the decision already adopted by us must be a 17-day period from the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. We are voting on the editorial proposal made by Mr. Kirilov from the stands. They voted 113 MPs: 112 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the entire draft decision amending the Decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates and choosing inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council adopted on 18 September 2015 by the National Assembly, as is the case by importers, in line with the editorial amendment made by us just now. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point this week: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXCIES AND THE LOANS. Reports have been received from the relevant committees. The report of the Budget and Finance Committee will be heard by Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u4	Dear Mr. President, before I read the Commission report, I ask for a procedure in the Chamber to be admitted: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate, Mrs. Desislava Trifonova and Mrs. Bozidar Alexov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u5	Thank you. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposed admission to the House of the listed persons. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite those persons to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u6	Mr. Chairman, the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance was drawn up in general for a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 554-01-69, submitted by Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs on 3 April 2015, and Draft No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 September 2015. As by letter No 554-00-659 of 30 September 2015 Mr. Kovachev and the group of MPs, on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure have withdrawn the bill submitted by them, I will only read the report in the part concerning the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u7	Just to say that on 30 September 2015, the Chamber reported that this bill was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u8	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 September 2015. At a meeting held on 24 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Feyzi Bekir Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy. Mrs. Iskra Gerbelova Head of the Department of the same Directorate; Mrs. Svetla Genova Director of the Directorate of Customs, Mr. Georgi Dimitrov Chief Legal Consult in the same Agency; representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry, Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, Industrial Capital Association, National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and others. The bill submitted by the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Bekir, who pointed out that it proposes the clarification of certain provisions in order to remove ambiguities and facilitate their practical implementation, the introduction of measures to prevent abuse and diversion from excise taxation through the misuse of heavy and marked fuels, not by purpose and changes in line with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The main changes to the bill are: 1. Easing the adjustment regime for lubricants is proposed by exempting them from excise packaging up to 5 litres instead of up to 3 litres, as in the current Law. A simplified notification procedure under Article is also proposed. 76c of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses in cases of obtaining lubricants from another Member State in quantities above 5 litres up to 210 litres. 2. For taxable persons who use ethyl alcohol for the production of goods not intended for human use in their activities, direct exemption from excise duty and not refund of excise duty shall be provided for. 3. A change is proposed in the definition of a heating energy product which is consistent with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 4. It is envisaged that the movement from one tax warehouse to another of the same licensed warehousekeeper on the territory of the country of excise goods coated with Banderol will not be considered as an exemption for consumption and that they will be subject to suspension of excise duty after authorisation of the Director of the Customs Agency. 5. A change is proposed to prevent an depositor having outstanding public obligations collected by the NRA from transferring ownership of excise goods to another depositor in order to avoid payment of public liabilities due. 6. In order to prevent the possibility of misuse and diversion of excise duties by misuse of heavy and marked fuels not for use as heating fuel but as motor fuel, an increase in excise rates for energy products used as heating fuel is proposed. 7. It is proposed not to consider the production of energy products the filling of liquefied petroleum gas into bottles intended for use as heating fuel, provided that the excise duty is paid, in relation to which the prohibition on filling liquefied petroleum gas into cylinders other than gas cylinders for vehicles is removed at filling stations for motor vehicles. 8. A requirement is introduced not to issue licences, certificates and registrations of a person whose owners, managers, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders are or were at the time of the occurrence of the obligations owners, prosecutors, majority partners or shareholders, members of management or control bodies of persons with outstanding public obligations collected by customs authorities. 9. A reduction of the time limits for issuing a decision to refund the paid excise duty on electricity from 3 to 2 months is proposed. 10. The provisions relating to the combined production of heat and electricity shall be revised by specifying how the tax base is determined for the energy product used for the production of heat. 11. The possibility of withdrawal of authorisations, certificates and licences shall be introduced in cases where the person has submitted incorrect data and has served to issue the relevant document. 12. A marketing authorisation for tobacco products is proposed not to be granted to a person who has carried out trade or storage of tobacco products without authorisation in the last 24 months, unless administrative criminal proceedings have ended with an agreement. It shall be prohibited to hold, carry and transport hand-rolled cigarettes or cigarettes made from filter blanks in a quantity exceeding 40 shorts. 13. A change in the ratio between the specific and proportional excise duties for cigarettes is proposed and the specific excise duty is reduced from 101 to 70 BGN. for 1000 shorts and the proportional excise duty shall be amended gradually until the minimum levels of taxation for the EU of EUR 90 per 1000 shorts are reached by 1 January 2018. The change in the ratio between specific and proportional excise duties will lead to a minimum increase in the prices of cigarettes of the lowest price categories. Following the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission expressed principled support for the bill. Questions were raised about the reasons for increasing the excise rates of energy heating products and the need to prepare an analysis of the effect for consumers of these fuels; on the reasons for changing the excise rate and the structure of the excise duty of cigarettes and the change in the prices of cigarettes. The representatives of the industry organisations disagreed with the proposed increase in the excise rates of energy products for heating and the introduction of excise duties on liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), as well as with regard to the increase in rates and the change in the structure of excise duty on cigarettes. The discussion of the bill ended with a vote on the following results: 12 votes for the draft, without the vote against the draft and 4 votes abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following a report from the Energy Commission, it is only about the Law of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Dobrev, I don't see him in the room. Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 September 2015. At its meeting on 30 September 2015, the Energy Commission examined and discussed at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 September 2015. The meeting of the Commission was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, who pointed out that it proposes the clarification of certain provisions in order to remove ambiguities and facilitate their practical implementation. Measures shall be put in place to prevent abuse and diversion of excise duties through the misuse of heavy and marked fuels not intended for use. The main changes laid down in the Bill are: relief of the regulation regime with regard to lubricants, with the same provision for exemption from excise duty for packaging up to 5 litres. The exemption from excise duty in force applies to packages up to 3 litres. A simplified notification procedure under Article is also proposed. 76c of the Law on excises and tax warehouses in cases of obtaining lubricants from another Member State in excess of 5 litres by 2010. A change in the definition of the energy product for heating is proposed, which is based on the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The inconsistent interpretation of the concept of An increase in excise rates for energy products used as heating fuels, such as the practice of a significant part of the Member States of the European Union, has also been proposed. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. It is proposed to include an explicit text giving the right to fill liquefied petroleum gas into bottles intended for heating fuel not to be carried out in a tax warehouse. In this context, the prohibition on filling liquefied petroleum gas into cylinders other than gas cylinders for motor vehicle gas systems shall be removed at stations for charging motor vehicles. The provisions relating to combined heat and electricity production, in accordance with the existing case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the provisions relating to the registration of electricity producers, are proposed. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 10 votes in respect of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. On behalf of the importer, I do not see any wishing to comment on the bill. We are going into the mode of debate on the Bill relating to excise duties and tax warehouses at first reading. Is there anything to say? Mr. Gechev. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u12	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to briefly comment on an important issue and focus on the problem of the proposed change in excise duties LPG-propane-butan with the following considerations. Dear colleagues, the first criterion we always apply when adopting laws and amendments to the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria is the policy of the European Union and the relevant directives and guidelines of the European Union in the relevant area. Therefore, my proposal relates to Directive 2003/87/EC and Directive 2008/118 EC. In addition, honourable Members, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all European Union programmes and its legislation are subject to the European Union Strategy for Sustainable Development, which would mean a socially fair and environmentally friendly development, i.e. the binding of laws and conditions for the production of goods and services with the protection of the environment and the creation of favourable natural and social conditions for the development of society in the European Union. We therefore object to the changes to, in practice, uniformisation of excise duties between environmentally friendly fuels and fuels that pollute the environment. The European Union's fuel policy is clear. For example, comparison: for lead-free petrol, the directive says that the recommended excise duty should be 359 euro per 1000 litres, for liquefied gas-LPG, the recommendation for motor fuels is 125 euros, that is to say almost three times less, for fuels that are used in forestry and agriculture In addition, at present, a number of Member States, I quote: Austria, Belgium, Great Britain, Greece, Spain, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland have benefited from their right to derogation and, on the first two indicators, they use, impose excise duties which are lower than the European Union guidelines. In addition, zero excise taxes on liquefied petroleum gas LPG for heating and household needs are applied in the following countries at present: still in Bulgaria, Great Britain, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Slovakia, Hungary, Finland, France and the Czech Republic. They have significantly lower rates: Austria, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Poland and Slovenia. And something very important, colleagues from 28 countries, currently 21 countries have preferential regimes up to zero rates. That is why we are very surprised that in the motives that are offered here, I hope it is a technical mistake, otherwise the MPs are fooled that, you see, it says: The predominant majority of European countries have a similar policy. Well, how's it going to be 25%? Out of 28 countries apply preferential excise duties for environmentally friendly fuels, so we object because what is currently being proposed with regard to propane-butanate excise duties is contrary to the European Union's sustainable development policy, contrary to the United Nations Sustainable Development Organisation's Programme and contrary to European Union practice. The reason that is required here in the motives is that, you see, in this way it was abused....................................................................................... We have an obligation as MPs to restrict abuses by legal means, but we cannot justify ourselves and distort the information about the excise duties applied in the European Union if some of the Bulgarian state institutions have not done their job. If there are violations and abuses in the motives we did not see any information. Who's being punished, who's being given to a prosecutor, what court decisions are there, what violations are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u13	This isn't about motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u14	Why have the state authorities not taken appropriate measures? So if some state institutions have not done their job, this does not mean that we must violate the European Union's policy on differentiated excise rates to support the use of environmentally friendly fuels. Secondly, when using fuels, we want to pay attention to a huge risk that we will be exposed to, if allowed, honourable Members, charging thousands of bottles for the use of petrol stations by households. I don't know if those who offer this text are aware of what tragedies can be played out in the technical malfunction of the bottles. There is no such practice in Europe and we are extremely surprised that such an option is being proposed. If someone wants to ruin the business of several dozen companies in Bulgaria and to eliminate several thousand jobs, only so that they can earn even more, some chains that fill with fuel, I think that we MPs cannot support such attempts. So first, in conclusion, the proposed elimination of differentiation is contrary to the directives of the European Union and its policy. It is not in the economic interest of the Republic of Bulgaria. To be such good government institutions to do their job. If necessary, we should make other changes to the laws, but we should not do things that are detrimental to the Bulgarian economy and put Bulgarian citizens at risk in the event of any change in the mode of loading bottles with LPG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u15	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to an issue that I find particularly disturbing, because predictability in taxation is a key issue, especially when a ruling majority and government announces a calendar and says: the amendment of excise duties will be in relation to this calendar, and this same government and majority 10 months later says: "Yes, we announced a calendar 10 months ago, but now we will radically change everything. Without an event that can justify such a change, this is not good for this majority and for this government. With regard to excise duties on cigarettes at the end of last year of the Budget Committee, on which I was present, a calendar for the modification of excise duties was adopted and it was said: "From now on, the amendment will be in relation to this calendar. I attended how several NGOs praised us and said: "Bravo, you are the first to be predictable from now on, you say every year what changes will be, this creates a stable and predictable business environment. Nine or ten months later, with great surprise, I open up to read the Law on excises and tax warehouses, and I see that the ad valorem excise duty, that means excise duty, which is a percentage of the final price, is actually doubling. In practice, it doubles without it anywhere in the calendar, and the specific excise duty, which is leva of a thousand short cigarettes, falls significantly. What is the government trying to do? Trying to increase the difference between cheap and expensive cigarettes, respecting European requirements and European minimum levels of excise duties, the difference between expensive and cheap cigarettes to remain as large as possible. Such a policy can be justified differently. There may be arguments to protect her, only if we hadn't announced a calendar at the end of last year, because since then nothing has really changed. European excise duties are the same. As they were then, when we announced the calendar, they are, and at the moment, nothing material has changed. Therefore, honourable Members, we are beginning to have doubts: why is such a policy being conducted? What happened to give up the promise made to the business, to the citizens, if you want, to the Bulgarian Parliament? What happened, that's what I want to ask you? What has changed since then to give up this predictability which has been applied to the Budget Committee and which the public has strongly supported? What happened because there is no significant social, political, economic event? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad practice that should not be supported. We between first and second readings will propose to the National Assembly to abandon these proposals and stick to the calendar that the Ministry of Finance, Government and Parliament approved, adopted and decided that this is the path of development from now on, otherwise remain, colleagues, very serious doubts. Once again, I understand that the European Union had changed its excise levels and excise policy, I understand that such an event would have happened, but nothing like this and explanations can be sought beyond normal reasonable logic. They can be searched in directions where I don't even want to go, I don't even want to think that such explanations are possible. I don't even want to believe it's possible, so I'm not going in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially those of you who were in the Budget Committee and who have announced the predictability from now on of excise taxation on cigarettes, I call on you to keep our word. Keeping our word and deviating from what we have said, only when such an extreme external event has occurred that there must be an adjustment to which policy needs to be changed. Of course, there are changes in life and politics when an extraordinary event takes place that changes the environment, but there is none, ladies and gentlemen. And since I'm not asking you to go back to the planned calendar, to the approved calendar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u17	And thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Turnover, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For a long time it has become a practice at the end of each year to bring changes to tax laws, but whether this practice is good. It is good practice when changes are an exception when they are justified, and the activities of the administration and the budgetary process comply with the tax laws in force. It is not good practice when the proposed changes aim to adapt tax legislation to the needs of the budget and the activities of the administration. Annual normalisation is an indicator of the instability of the tax policy carried out and of the tax rules in force, which business operators take into account in their economic and economic development strategies in economic and economic terms. Our proposed amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, according to the reasons, have been drawn up in relation to the improvement of tax legislation and refined the provisions of the Law with the requirements of European directives and European practices in the field of excise taxation. Nowhere is the reasoning indicated in what this precision is expressed. On the contrary, with the proposed changes, we return to already repealed practices when in the 1990s such an unsuccessful attempt was made to exploit liquefied petroleum gas, regardless of the area of its application. Under the pressure of the European Commission, preferential excise taxation of liquefied petroleum gas was introduced in 2006, which is not used for motor fuels and business, in compliance with the requirements of the legislation, made investments over 50 million. BGN, which, if we vote on these changes, will prove pointless. In the reasons of the draft budget you adopted for 2015, it is written that it will have a positive effect on strengthening customs control, establishing a uniform practice in the release of goods for free circulation as regards the elements of taxation and improvement of cooperation with law enforcement and law enforcement authorities with a view to achieving more effective results in countering infringements and offences. Again in words and in motives great, but practically nothing to do with the objectives set and the proposals made for changes. In words, we have defeated smuggling and brought 2 billion more revenue for the budget, but when we look at the figures in the 2015 budget implementation report, we do not see such results. We see that they do not correspond to the stated intentions and the announced results. Something worse, instead of the requested measures on improved customs control, we get an increased tax burden, punished business and citizens for unacquired goals and, of course, inefficient control of the administration. The claims of importers in the grounds that the increase in the excise rate for energy products used as heating fuels is a practice of a significant part of the Member States of the European Union is absolutely false. Twenty-one of the 28 Member States of the European Union shall apply a zero rate or a symbolic rate. The increase in the excise duty on liquefied gas used for heating will directly affect the final price of consumers who will start filling their bottles of gas stations without technical control. This is very dangerous for both operators and consumers. The increase in the price of liquefied hydrocarbon gas for heating will inevitably lead to a serious decrease in its heating consumption. The limitation of its consumption is contrary to global and European practices to reduce greenhouse gases. If we accept the proposed changes, we'll be out of a job and hundreds of people. At the same time, the fiscal effect of these changes is approximately and humiliatingly small. lv. This version of the bill is not subject to public consultation regarding an increase in excise duties for tobacco products. With the initial proposed version of the Ministry of Finance in the Draft Law for amendment and supplement was not envisaged a change in the tax calendar of which the colleague Dimitrov spoke. In order to ensure predictability, a tax calendar was adopted by the Act amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses at the end of 2014. The sharp change in the philosophy of excise duty without arguments or with claims that sound perhaps expert, but are actually arguments on the philosophy of this change, is not only surprising and strange, but also very dangerous, because it directly affects revenue, business environment and, of course, will affect consumers. It is false that the tax calendar had to change because the total tax burden as a percentage of the weighted average selling price is too high. The high tax burden, colleagues, could not be lower for the simple reason that the price of tobacco products in Bulgaria against all countries in the European Union is very low. That's one thing. On the other hand, there is the fact that the cheapest cigarettes are in our possession, so whatever we do, whatever we do, whatever we do, eventually if the idea is to reduce this excise rate, then the order is different. Another false claim is that the new excise calendar would ease the cheapest. I mean, prices won't go as high as the old calendar. From the information presented by comparing the two calendars, we see that this statement is also not true. The argument that the excise structure is wrong is also unfounded and proportional excise duty should be lifted because that is the case throughout Europe. In recent years, there has been no EU country that has sharply changed the excise structure towards an increase in the proportionate excise duty. The government's strongest argument is that the new excise structure will bring more revenue and reduce smuggling. However, this is highly desirable and reminds us of the random talk in 2010, when excise duties were increased by 50% and there was a collapse in excise revenue and increased smuggling. If there is anything that can change the data from recent years for growth in the revenues from excises from cigarettes and the declining, albeit with a slight drop in smuggling, it is precisely the sharp, totally unargumented and unexpected change in the excise calendar. In addition to the example from Bulgaria here, we can give the example from Mexico from 2009 - 2010, where such a sharp change in the tax calendar was made, and the results are the same - increased smuggling and reduced revenue. The increase in the tax burden has never led to an increase in revenue, but on the contrary increased smuggling, tax fraud and tax evasion. According to an internationally recognised methodology survey, cited by the Director of the Customs Agency, last year 70% of smoked cigarettes without Banderol were Bulgarian production. The reserves in dealing with smuggling are not in the increase in tax burden. The proposed bill does not, in addition, meet the requirements for justification under art. 26 of the Law on Administrative Acts, as well as under art. 28 as regards the requirements for the reasons for the bill. Between first and second reading we will make our proposals and based on everything I have said, there is no way to support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses triggers a broad public discussion. On the one hand, this is quite normal, because when we talk about increasing excise duties and hence the prices of some of the goods with widespread consumption, such as cigarettes and fuels, it is only natural that society should be very sensitive. On the other hand, market participants react when the proposed measures in one way or another affect their business interest. I will point out several arguments that give me reason to support the proposed bill. Firstly, we must take into account the government's successful efforts to combat smuggling and reduce this smuggling specifically for excise goods. This becomes clear when we look at the report on the collected excise duties for the six months of this year, compared to the same period last year. The data are as follows: revenue of 2 billion was collected in 2015 for the six-month period. 6 million. BGN, which is 172 million more or almost 10% compared to the same period of the previous year. Yeah, it's a lightening economy, that's more money in the budget. I am convinced that they will be reasonably spent or possibly saved if it is decided to be at the expense of the budget deficit. Without entering the specifics, it is clear that the desire to limit and close certain loopholes in the Law is clear when certain goods are not used as intended. I give an example of heating fuels, which in some cases are also used as motor fuel. This will lead to additional revenue in the budget. I see here representatives of the Ministry of Finance, which I call with some of the additional revenue referred to as 70 million. BGN, to compensate for the budgetary expenses of the hospitals, schools and so on, which will be largely affected when applying the higher rates for heating fuels. The subject of excise policy on cigarettes must have a deeper expert analysis. I agree with what my fellow Members have said that it is good to have stability and predictability, and when there is an approved calendar, it must be respected. Every change on this calendar has its arguments, but it also wakes up some questions that are done in one direction or another. So when there is an approved calendar, it would be good to observe this. Let us say that under Council Directive 2011/64, the minimum excise duty cannot be less than EUR 90 per thousand of cigarettes on 1 January 2018, and that the specific excise duty cannot be less than 7,5 per cent and more than 76.5 per cent of the total excise burden. It is a question of internal policy how to balance the levels of these two types of excise duties................... and proportional, but although we have benefited from the transitional period as of 2016, we have to gradually reach these minimum levels. This means a gradual increase in excise duties, a gradual increase in cigarette prices, an increase for the low-end cigarettes will be about 60. on a box or about 20% of the price of the box, and for the higher class of cigarettes the increase will be between 1,10 and 1,30 BGN. on a pack of cigarettes, which again is about 20%. We can see that some balance is perhaps sought and that the proposed levels relatively evenly increase the price of all types of cigarettes. We are currently with a very low level of proportional excise duty. In Bulgaria there are now 23% and we are at the back of the ranking of the member states. Applying the increased rates of excise duty, we will move quite seriously forward. At the end of the period, it means getting closer to countries like Austria by 41% and after countries like Italy and Spain by 51%, France and Belgium respectively 49 and 45% specific excise duty. We must support the government's proposal, which, with its policy and measures, has shown that it is a successful fight against smuggling. At the same time, we must also take into account the policy of reducing smoking and, on the other hand, the planned revenue in the budget to be implemented. Of course, there are also things in the Bill that should be discussed between readings. Mr. Gechev also said about the possibility to fill bottles of petrol stations. This should be discussed in order to ensure the safety of use. Some texts which, according to the letters of the branch organizations, would create some administrative burden should also be refined. I hope that between first and second readings we will discuss these texts and find the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u22	Dear Mr. Tanev, disagree with you on the following matter. There is indeed an improved collection of revenue, for which we should congratulate the Customs Agency. You know, they had placed dozens of employees for direct human control in tobacco and alcohol manufacturing plants. This led to this better collection. Notice, nearly a year ago, parliament voted to have measuring instruments for alcohol and cigarettes. The Ministry of Finance for these ten months, for reasons unknown to us, did not ask or know whether it had requested that these measuring instruments be installed. What happens now? Customs, I understand, have withdrawn some of these employees. Human control is gone. And the measuring instruments are gone. What will happen to the collection in question? My question to you and to whom the Ministry of Finance must answer: why is this notification so delayed and when will the measuring instruments have them in terms of alcohol and cigarettes? Yes, we want this good collection to continue, for which we all congratulate you, but to continue we want measuring instruments with regard to alcohol and cigarettes. Parliament, honourable Members, has voted. We all supported this measure, but there are no measuring instruments! So, Mr. Tanev, you praised and I praise the better collection, but there is a danger that it will stop if the appliances in question are not installed by the end of the year. I don't understand why the Ministry of Finance hasn't requested this notification yet?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u23	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. Let the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group know that time is up. Of course, the back doesn't go in time. Any subsequent statement must go through a request for an extension of time. Mr. Tanev, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Mr. Dimitrov, we don't really have any differences with you, and I'm surprised you're asking me the question: why are there no appliances? It's too early for me to move there. I think what you're saying is right, and we've always stood up, we have a unified position that such appliances need to be installed. I hope that the data referred to as overexecution for the first half of the year will be confirmed and given, God, to be significantly increased. I am convinced that with regard to the smuggling of excise goods, fuel must be made every effort and maximum revenue collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Please extend the time proportional to all groups. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the bill. Please, honourable Members, prepare for a vote. The Quaestors, invite the colleagues who are discussing the bill in the towers. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 September 2015. Vote 100 MPs: 81 against 9, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u26	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, two people could not vote. I would like to remind you that with this vote, as well as other times, the vote is against the directives of the European Union and its policy. Think about what we're doing again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I hope your colleagues will be able to vote. Revision of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 100 MPs: 81 against 7, abstention 12. The proposal is adopted, with which the Bill at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ACCOUNTING. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 July 2015 The bill is assigned to three committees. It is the Commission on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u28	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I ask again for a procedure......................................................................................................... and Mrs................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u29	We vote on the proposal. Vote 68 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u30	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Accounting Bill, No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2015. At its meeting held on 10 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Accounting Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance Mr. Feyzi Bekir "Deputy Minister and Ludmila Petkova "Director of the Department of Tax Policy" - representatives of the Institute of Graduated Accountants Expert in Bulgaria and of the Association of Specialized Accounting Enterprises. The bill was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir. The proposed Accounting Bill has been drawn up in connection with the introduction into national accounting legislation of the provisions of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings and amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 87/349/EEC, namely Directive 2013/34/EU). The main points in the bill are that for the first time the national accounting legislation proposes provisions relating to the exemption from the obligation to translate into Bulgarian all accounting documents entering the enterprise in a foreign language and introduces a ban on the drawing up and reporting of accounting documents for transactions that distort and distort the actual financial and property status of the undertaking, as well as on the accounting of fictitious and perceived transactions that conceal other transactions, including the bribery of officials. A new and uniform European Union-wide classification of enterprises is introduced, according to which are their obligations to draw up annual accounts, audit and publication. Provisions governing the requirements for the financial statements of undertakings are proposed, specifying the provisions relating to the general principles for keeping accounting. A mandatory independent financial audit by statutory auditors shall be regulated and the annual and consolidated financial statements of medium and large enterprises will be subject to audit; undertakings of public interest, medium and large groups of undertakings for which this requirement is established by law and part of small enterprises. After the presentation of the Bill was held a discussion where the members of the commission, as well as representatives of the Institute of Graduated Accountants in Bulgaria and the Association of Specialized Accounting Enterprises expressed their principle support for the Bill. After the discussion was held a vote with the following results:........................ 11 Members of Parliament,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill of Accounting, No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29.07.2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u31	We will now hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva. A summary of the report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u32	Madam President, honourable Members, I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe under the Accounting Act No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2015 by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 16 September 2015 discussed and discussed the Accountancy Bill, No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29.07.2015. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance "Faezi Bekir" Deputy Minister, Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, Natalia Cherneva, Head of the Department at the Department of Tax Policy, Boyko Kostov, Chairman of the Institute of Graduated Accountants, Madeleine Levy (Primo) Chairman of the Management Board of the Association of Specialized Accounting Enterprises, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Fezi Bekir. The introduction into national accounting legislation of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on annual financial statements as well as the ineffective structure of the current Accounting Act requires the adoption of a new law and not an amendment and an addition to the existing one. Under the Law on Legislative Acts, the procedure is admissible. The proposed Bill aims to reduce administrative burden and business costs and create clear rules and procedures regarding the accounting of enterprises. The transitional and final provisions, apart from the annulment of the current Accounting Act, make corresponding changes to 2 codes and 12 other laws. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria supports the proposed Draft by recommending supplementing the legal definition of the public interest enterprises and synchronization of the same with the Independent Financial Audit Act. The Institute of Graduated Accountants Expert and the Association of Specialized Accounting Enterprises supports the Bill. Following the conclusion of the discussion and vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill of accounting, No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29.07.2015....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Here you go, Mr. Gechev. After him, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u34	Madam President, honourable Members. First of all, I can't help but say pretty good words about the work that was done on the preparation of the Law by its publication on the Ministry's website. He was in a kind that caused a lot of controversy, was working with experts. The recommendations of colleagues from the University of National and World Economy and other universities and specialists in accounting are taken into account, so in this form the Law looks much better and more acceptable. However, there is one question. I'd like to focus your attention on it. This is the issue of the classification of small and micro companies that are or are not subject to compulsory financial audit. Honourable Members, and here the policy of the European Union is clear for exempting from mandatory external financial audit of micro companies and medium-sized companies. To this end, there is a very clear classification in the European Union which companies are micro- and which companies are small, respectively the restrictions are: 50 employed for small companies, 10 employed for micro companies, respectively on the two indicators that measure the annual turnover and the net result of the company's balance sheet at 10 million. EUR for small businesses and 2 million Euros for micro companies. And here was a discussion in the Committee on Budget and Finance in view that in Bulgaria the economic indicators are different and should be much lower for small and micro companies. Therefore, the Bill offers amounts in the order of 300 h micro companies. lv. And 600,000. lv. both indicators and respectively for medium-sized companies up to 600 thousand. lv. I have a concrete proposal to resolve this contradiction because we cannot disagree that there is a difference in the economy of Bulgaria and Germany, for example, which is why in such cases lawmakers around the world use weighted averages and compare the national economy with the average indicators, in the case of the European Union. Dear colleagues, we can relatively easily solve this problem and release from additional financial and administrative burdens tens of thousands of Bulgarian micro- and small companies. What do I mean? The average, gross domestic product per capita, weighted on average by the parith of purchasing power, is 27 thousand. 400 euros, and in Bulgaria it is 12 thousand. 300 euros. It is therefore a matter of two and a half times. But when we applied this difference of two and a half times to what is proposed in the Small and Micro Companies Bill in Bulgaria, fellow Members, the following startling result is: for micro companies the difference is 13 times one indicator, six times the other indicator, and for medium-sized companies in Bulgaria and the European Union 67 times and 33 times respectively. Therefore, we strongly object to the bar being so low and let tens of thousands of Bulgarian companies not take advantage of the European Union's policy against micro- and small companies to relieve such tax burdens. My fellow Members, I must tell you that there are quite strong lobbying interests here, as we are talking about the distribution of more than 370 million. lv. annual for the enforcement of seals and for the certification of the relevant external financial audits. So let us leave the financial audits for the larger companies, let us review these criteria once again and bring Bulgaria closer to the average European indicators, so that we implement the EU directives and the European Union's common economic policy on accounting, to ease the Bulgarian micro and small companies, which are the backbone of the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Genchev. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! I will speak very briefly to say that, with colleagues from the Reformation bloc, we will support the bill. There are really a lot of good things in it, and there are things between the two readings that need fixing. This bill has actually caused us to withdraw our bill amending the current Accounting Act, which was specifically referring to small and micro enterprises and looking for reliefs to be introduced in respect of them for the mandatory independent financial audit. This is what we see in the current proposed bill. Perhaps it can be improved, but in any case it is a step in the real direction, as for example are other small business reliefs that we also see there, starting from dropping the requirement for compulsory translations from a foreign language to accounting documents and so on. So basically we will support it and between the two readings we will probably propose changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u37	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the group that has worked to draw up this new Law has made a lot of effort, but here we are still entering a specialized matter which is extremely important and I am not convinced, and naturally I do not want to affect anyone that all MPs understand this matter. I will try to explain a not very pleasant fact in the Law. This fact, honourable Members, is addressed in art. 6, para. 1 of the proposed Law which regulates the mandatory props to be present in the preparation of a primary document addressed to an external recipient. I'll read you to make it clear. The first mandatory prop is the name and number of the document containing only Arabic numerals. Great, okay! Second, the date of issue. Third, name, address, EIC and so on of the publisher and recipient. Great, okay! Fourth, subject, natural and valuable expression of the business operation. And that's as far as the props go. However, regulated in this way the mandatory props allow for some very, very unpleasant things that are happening now in practice. If you are impressed, there is no signature of the publisher, the name of the person who issued this document, a person responsible or a material person, as well as the signature and date of the recipient. That's dangerous. I will give you examples by which the group of the Patriotic Front and National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria have been addressed in the last few months. Particularly drastic is the case in Haskovo. It turns out that dozens of traders are recipients of goods, pay attention, especially cigarettes. These people, not knowing that they received such goods, were then sentenced to pay hundreds of thousands of levs of VAT and corporation tax respectively, or income tax. Here is your case: they cannot prove that they are not recipients of this kind of goods. We did our investigation and it turns out that large warehouses very often deliver cigarettes, for example, to small settlements. These are usually villages with population up to 100-150 people, where there are mixed-type stores. However, these stores are not authorised to sell cigarettes, tobacco products and, naturally, they cannot obtain the invoiced goods. However, this commodity must then be released, in other words, to release stocks. It turns out that any one of you may turn out at some point that he owes a lot, a lot of money. Colleagues, I'll give you another example. I am convinced that many of you have cards, for example, for a chain in which to shop, you must register that you are, for example, the owner of a single trader company that has been closed for a long time, but you continue to shop with this card because it is the only one you can enter and shop with. This trade chain is located at the entrance of Sofia on the left side.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u39	A few places.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u40	Yeah. I don't want to mention the name so I don't...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u41	Nobody understood. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u42	You go in, you shop, an invoice is issued, and you're already indebted to stock. I wouldn't be surprised if, in time, you also received the relevant audit act for selling the goods that you bought, in general, in most cases for personal consumption. [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] No, I'm not talking nonsense, Yordanova. Unlike you, except that I know about accounting, I know him in all his details.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u43	Colleague Bajraktarov, no personal insults, so well started. Please, let's finish in the same tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u44	Well, you make a remark to the colleague Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u45	I'm making remarks from a place not to replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u46	So don't call me when I'm speaking. [[Laughter]] But it's the truth, it's the facts. There are a lot of cases going on right now, and a lot of people are threatened with losing homes. Again, particularly drastic is the case of dozens of traders in Haskovo. I appeal, and we will do our best to think about this case of mandatory props in art. 6, para. 1, because otherwise we risk creating a very, very vicious practice, which, among other things, can be used calmly for money laundering and another can pay taxes on money laundering. So if anyone doesn't understand, I'm ready, as Mr. Kirilov says, to call him in the corner, to explain. [[Radio.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u47	Mr. Bayraktarov, you've started well, the final thing... [[Noise and lines.]] Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u48	Madam President, colleagues! With regard to the introduction of the requirements of the Accounting Directive, according to importers and their analysis of the provisions of the current law, this analysis shows the need for a new law and not a law amending and supplementing it. The aim is to establish an effective approach to transposition of European accounting rules. Accounting is a science developed over hundreds of years. He has a solid theoretical basis. Throughout the world, the technique of bilateral accounting and accounting accounts, balance, chronological and systematic reporting are similar, if not the same. Why would basic theoretical bases fit into the Law? Why should all the requirements of the Accounting Directive be part of the new Law that is being offered to us? It is possible that many of them are part of the accounting standards. The Accounting Act must summarize, provide a common framework which in the new Law is no different from the old one, except for the audit of micro and small enterprises. The entry of basic theoretical performances and the requirements for the accounting of enterprises in law was also wrong in the old one. It is also preserved in the new and leads to the so-called tax accounting, which provides distorted, distorted information about the financial situation of the undertaking, information of extremely low quality. The State was not the main user of the information from the financial statements. The main stakeholders are, of course, owners and persons who provide them with resources. And here is the place of the state with accounting standards to determine accounting techniques in them, thereby ensuring the quality of the information that is needed in both directions. The truth is that today many accounting standards are formally used and current accounting is reduced to a level, as I said, tax accounting with a very low quality of financial information. Unfortunately, the draft Law on Accounting not only does not attempt to fight, but encourages the tax focus of accounting in Bulgaria and will accordingly deepen the problems with the low quality of the information from the accounts. In this version of the law, as well as in the current Accounting Act, the importer did not consider it appropriate to clarify what is understood by analytical registration and, in particular, what level of analyticity is mandatory and necessary. Again, it is not clear what is meant by an interim accounting closure, at what periods. All of this leaves an opportunity, on the one hand, for ill-intentioned actions of businesses and, on the other, for honest harassment by the revenue administration. In general, I have the impression that the proposed Accounting Act has not even made an attempt to escape the deep-rooted belief that the state should regulate and control the way in which businesses organise their accounting, although such guidelines and regulations by the state are not available in the directives and in the different standards, it abounds in the draft law. The clever keeping of the books and accounting is one of the qualities of the trader since the time of Luca Patchioli, and incorrect reporting is only to the detriment of the trader and can bring him huge losses. The principle of the Venetian merchants. Despite the long and loud discussion of the Bill, the establishment and operation of an interdepartmental working group on the new Law, the participants also have numerous remarks, proposals, both on the structure of the Law and on the specific texts. We also have numerous remarks and proposals that we will submit for second reading, and at this stage there is no way to support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u49	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote the Bill on Accounting No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2015. Quaestors, invite the MPs from the towers! All kinds of meetings are going on right now, but not what it should be, namely, in plenary! Vote 80 MPs: 67 against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria I want a half hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u51	Take 15 minutes off. We'll continue at 10.45. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u52	Guys, break time's up. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House, I also make a similar invitation from the microphone. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE SUMMER AND THE BEAUTIFULS. I expect Mr. Kirilov in plenary or a representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u53	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I present a Report of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees for a second vote. "Improvement and Supplement to the Law on Asylum and Refugees" (Obn., SG No. ...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u54	We continue with the supported texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u55	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is Art. 1a. (1) The Republic of Bulgaria shall grant under this law international protection and temporary protection. (2) International protection shall be granted under the Convention on the Status of Refugees drawn up in Geneva on 28 July 1951 and the Protocol on the Status of Refugees of 1967 ratified by law (not yet published in the Official Journal). ...), international acts on the protection of human rights and of this law, and includes refugee status and humanitarian status. (3) Temporary protection shall be granted in the event of a mass penetration of foreigners who are forced to leave their country of origin due to armed conflict, civil war, foreign aggression, violation of human rights or violence in large proportions in the territory of the country concerned or in a separate area thereof and who cannot, for these reasons, return there. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 8 is amended as follows: Art. 8. (1) A refugee status in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be granted to a foreigner who, for legitimate fears of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion or belonging to a particular social group, is located outside his country of origin and, for these reasons, cannot or does not wish to benefit from the protection of that country or return to it. (2) For the granting of the status under para. 1 is regardless of whether the foreigner belongs to those races, religion, nationality, social group or expresses a political opinion that is at the heart of the persecution. It is sufficient for the body or organisation carrying out the persecution to believe that the foreigner has such belonging. (3) Persecution entities may be: 1. the state; 2. parties or organisations that control the state or a significant part of its territory; 3. non-state entities where it can be demonstrated that the entities referred to in point 3. 1 and 2, including international organisations, cannot or do not wish to provide protection against persecution. (4) Persecution is a violation of fundamental human rights or a set of actions which lead to a violation of fundamental human rights, sufficiently severe in nature or recurrence. (5) The actions of persecution may be: 1. physical or mental violence, including sexual violence; 2. legal, administrative, police or judicial measures which are discriminatory in themselves or are applied in a discriminatory manner; 3. prosecution or penalties which are disproportionate or discriminatory; 4. refusal of judicial protection, which is expressed in disproportionate or discriminatory punishment; 5. prosecution or punishment for refusal of military service in the event of military action where military service would suggest the execution of a crime or an act under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 6. actions directed against persons for the cause of their sex or against children. (6) The concerns of persecution may be based on events occurring after the alien has left his country of origin or on an activity carried out by him after his departure, especially if it is found that this activity is an expression or continuation of the beliefs or orientation expressed in the country of origin, unless it is carried out solely for the purpose of obtaining international protection under that law. (7) Protection against persecution may be granted by the State, parties or organisations, including international organisations that control the State or a significant part of its territory, provided that they wish and can offer effective protection to which the foreigner has access and which has no temporary character. (8) A refugee status may not be granted where there are no legitimate reasons for persecution against the alien in part of the country of origin, where he can safely and legally travel and gain access to that part of the country and can reasonably be expected to be found there. (9) Refugees shall also be considered to be members of the family of a foreigner with refugee status provided, in so far as this is compatible with their personal status and there are no circumstances under art. 12, para. 1. (10) When a foreigner with refugee status is married to another foreigner, he may be granted refugee status only on his own grounds. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9th para. 1 six are amended as follows: A humanitarian status shall be granted to a foreigner who does not meet the requirements for granting refugee status and who cannot or does not wish to receive protection from his country of origin, as he may be exposed to a real danger of serious harm, such as: 1. the death penalty or execution, or 2. torture, inhuman or degrading treatment, or punishment, or 3. serious threats to the life or personality of a civilian due to reckless violence in the event of armed international or internal conflict. (2) Entities engaged in serious violations under para. 1, may be: 1. the state; 2. parties or organisations that control the state or a significant part of its territory; 3. non-state entities, if it can be demonstrated that the entities referred to in point 3. 1 and 2, including international organisations, cannot or do not wish to provide protection against serious abuse. (3) The actual danger of serious harm may be based on events which occurred after the alien has left his country of origin or on an activity carried out by him after his departure, especially if it is found that this activity constitutes an expression or continuation of the beliefs or orientation expressed in the country of origin, unless it is carried out solely for the purpose of obtaining international protection under that law. (4) Protection against serious harm may be granted by the State, parties or organisations, including international organisations that control the State or a significant part of its territory, provided that they wish and can offer effective protection to which the foreigner has access and which has no temporary character. (5) Humanitarian status may not be granted where, in one part of the country of origin, there is no real risk that the foreigner may suffer severe harm, in which he may safely and legally travel and gain access to that part of the State and can reasonably be expected to be found there. (6) Humanitarian status shall also be granted to members of the family of a foreigner with humanitarian status provided, insofar as this is compatible with their personal status and there are no circumstances under art. 12, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." Whoever benefits from the protection or assistance of bodies or organisations of the United Nations other than the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; where such protection or assistance has not been suspended and the situation of the person has not been established, under the relevant United Nations resolution, that person may benefit from the privileges resulting from the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees; b) To be created t. 6 and 7: It's six. for whom there is strong reason to assume that it poses a threat to national security; 7. who is once convicted of a serious crime in force is a threat to society. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: supposed to a foreigner no humanitarian status: 1. for whom there is good reason to assume that he has committed any of the acts under para. 1, t. 1 and 3; 2. for whom there is strong reason to assume that he has committed a serious crime; 3. who has committed a crime outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, for which the Bulgarian law provides for prison punishment, and has left his country of origin only in order to avoid prosecution, unless such persecution threatens his life or is inhuman or degrading; 4. for whom there are strong reasons to assume that it poses a threat to society or national security. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words "resident status" or "human status" shall be replaced by "immigration status." 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "or the relevant registration and reception centre" shall be deleted. 3. A t is created. 4. "4." In violation of the applicable measure under art. 45a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 words of refugee status or humanitarian status shall be replaced by an international protection granted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u56	That's it. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate on the name of the Law and on paragraphs 1 through 19 inclusive. There are no proposals made between first and second readings. Much of the texts, as you have heard, are supported by an importer, others are edited by the Commission. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law together with paragraphs 1 to 19 inclusive. They voted 86 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u57	According to § 20 there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Paragraph 20, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 is amended as follows: A new paragraph 2 is being created: Where a minor or minor foreigner seeking or receiving international protection is accompanied by an adult responsible for him under the law or customs, that adult shall be appointed by the authority under para. 1 for its representative under terms and conditions laid down in an act of the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance. Proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Gechev, Ralitsa Todorova and Claudia Gancheva. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "Secretary" shall be replaced by "International Protection" and the words "Secretary" shall be appointed, respectively, under the terms and conditions of the Family Code "Secretary" shall be replaced by a representative of the municipal administration appointed by the mayor of the municipality or by an official authorised by him. 2. A new para is being created. 2: Where a minor or minor foreigner seeking or receiving international protection is accompanied by an adult responsible under law or custom, that adult shall be appointed by the authority under para. 1 for his representative. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The representative of a minor foreigner seeking or receiving international protection until the age of the person has the following powers in the proceedings under this law: 1. to take care of its legal interests in the procedures for granting international protection until their completion by an effective decision; 2. to represent it in front of all administrative bodies, including social, health, educational and other institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria, in order to protect the best interest of the child; 3. to act as procedural representative in all proceedings before the administrative authorities; 4. to take action to provide legal assistance. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the word "Protection" is replaced by "International Protection." 5. Allinea 5 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u58	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u59	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! This is one of the two texts that sparked debate and controversy in the leading Commission. The current status quo, namely the guardian and guardian, has so far been appointed under the Family Code as an adult or a minor. As an importer, based on analysis, on many disputes from two years ago, I proposed that this person be appointed by the Director of the Agency for Social Assistance. However, I accept all those of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, namely the Deputy Minister who presented the bill. On this basis, I also accept Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov's proposals for a new text, namely such a trustee to be appointed under the Family Code, and the mayor appoints a representative of the municipal administration to deal with this topic. I think, on the basis of all the arguments that have been said in the Committee on Legal Affairs, this is the better and more flexible option. In this way, the adequate response function would be met with appropriate efficiency and, where appropriate. I also support the text approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u60	Replices to Mr. Kardzhaliev? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov is not in favour of this proposal. They voted 84 MPs: 15 against 26, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the version of § 20 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u61	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. Paragraph 24. Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov: In § 24: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 a new sentence is added with the following text: The foreigner has the right to access the registration card under para. 1, t. 6 and successfully completed a major course in Bulgarian language. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: Within a reasonable period of time after the application for international protection, an assessment shall be made as to whether the applicant is a candidate with special reception needs and whether he belongs to a vulnerable group. The procedures for conducting the identification procedure shall be laid down in an act issued by the President of the State Agency for Refugees. Vulnerability of persons shall be taken into account when adopting and in the procedure for examining the application for protection. Applicants for international protection shall be tracked and directed to existing programmes and services to meet their specific needs. 3. Paragraph 6 shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: seven Unaccompanied minors are accommodated until the age of a minor in a family of relatives or in a close family, foster family, social service, resident type or specialized institution, under the terms and conditions of the Child Protection Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." Move on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; b) Previous t. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. 2. In para. 2 all over the word "statut" is replaced by "international asylum" and the words "six" and "seven" are replaced by "seven" and "eight" are replaced by "seven." 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The foreigner shall have the right to access the labour market, including participation in programmes and projects financed by the State budget or under international or European financing if the proceedings are not completed within three months of his application for international protection for reasons beyond his control. 4. In para. 4 A sentence is created third: The medical examination reveals whether the foreigner seeking international protection belongs to a vulnerable group and whether he has special needs. 5. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: The medical examination is carried out in health offices at territorial units. The activities of health offices may be carried out by a doctor, nurse or paramedic. (6) The health offices shall carry out activities under: 1. initial studies in the registration of the persons applying for protection; 2. permanent medical supervision; 3. first medical care; 4. control of the hygienic state of persons; 5. current control of compliance with hygiene requirements; 6. preparation and maintenance of medical documentation for each person. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The rights referred to in paragraph 1 shall be exercised in accordance with the laws of the Member States of the European Union. 1, t. 3 and 4 shall not be granted to a foreigner who does not belong to a vulnerable group, and: 1. submit a subsequent application for international protection; 2. for whom the proceedings on his application for international protection have been brought. 7. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8. 8. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: Unaccompanied minors or minors shall be accommodated until the age of age in: 1. family of relatives or of relatives, foster family, social service, resident type, or in a specialized institution, under the terms and conditions of the Child Protection Act; 2. other accommodation with special conditions for minors. 9. They're creating an al. 10 and 11: In determining the place of accommodation of an unaccompanied minor or minor, his opinion shall be taken into account. As far as possible, the brothers and sisters settle together, taking into account the best interest of the child. (11) Of the law under para. 1, t. 1 shall not be used a foreigner after his subsequent application for international protection under art. 13, para. 1, t. 5 is rejected by an effective decision as well as a foreigner who is subject to extradition or transfer to another Member State of the European Union or to a third country in accordance with the Extradition Act and the European Arrest Warrant.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u62	Statements? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u63	Madam President, this is the first time I have heard of the category in a legal sense, a reasonable period of time. I believe that Mr. Kirilov should clarify what a reasonable deadline means. This opens the doors to great subjectivity. If I must express myself figuratively, I suggest that the taxes of Bulgarian citizens should be paid within a reasonable time. None of us would have thought to offer such qualifications. In this case, I suppose it's an oversight that could be corrected immediately. Mr. Kirilov, your clarification would be particularly important for the issue of the relevant document.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u64	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, you want to take an attitude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u65	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I point out that the concept of a reasonable time frame is not first used in national law. In the present case, the concept corresponds to the reference in the applicable directive. According to the legal doctrine, the first point in which it is objectively possible to carry out the due legal effect is adopted under a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u66	Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to a very interesting text that is contained in para. 3 of art. 29 of § 24 of the Bill. What does this text say? The foreigner has the right to access the labour market, including participation in programmes and projects financed by the state budget or under international or European financing if the proceedings are not completed within three months of his application for international protection for reasons beyond his control. Now I'm asking you, colleagues: the first reason I don't care about the foreigner X, Y or Z, whoever he is, doesn't have any documents to prove his identity. Those are reasons beyond his control. How, how will this foreigner, if there are no identification documents, not establish his identity, take part in the labour market? Who will this employer be and how will he register him? How will he register his employment contract, not to mention from there on, for example, how will he open, how will he find the relevant, for example, private pension insurance company its individual insurance lot? I'm asking! However, we will continue to reason. This text will enable unfair competition from the point of view of market power, which cannot be verified, which is an extreme danger. So to speak, unidentified individuals are starting to participate in the labour market and they cannot in any way be registered. First of all, the Labour Code is violated because, in order to enter into employment law, this contract must be registered with the NRA and, once registered, the person concerned must start carrying out his work. I ask: how will the importer answer me? By the way, this text will really create an extremely serious problem. It's extraordinary. It will happen that we already have an extremely serious problem with the youth employment of our Bulgarian young people, who we cannot provide work with, and at some point they will appear... By the way, did any of you ever go to a refugee camp to interview refugees?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u68	We're not all journalists, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u69	Each Member of the National Assembly, according to art. 137 in the course of his legislative work may go to visit such a camp. He could even do an interview. And I have done such interviews: 90% of the ladies said they worked as teachers or as hairdressers at the tender age of 16 years, for example; 90% of the men turned out to be taxi drivers, and most did not have driver's licenses. Now answer what happens next. That's why I'm offering Al. Art. 3 of art. 29 in § 24 of the Law on Depreciation, as it contradicts both the Bulgarian and international legislation, including not to confuse now exactly who it was, the International Labour Organisation Directive, but it contradicts these agreements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I am taking a reply to explain the proposal, as it stems from a proposal that Mrs. Alexandrova and I have made, entirely in the context of the importer. The foreigner has the right to work. We cannot take away his right to work, especially in cases where the procedure has slowed down in circumstances that do not depend on him. With regard to identification. You say: you don't know who he is. The refugee entered with allegations of identification to be verified. He said: I'm saying in a way that you are, I'm just a who-sit and this is being checked and settled in the procedure. There is no problem until the identification is proven that this person is determined in the way it is claimed. With regard to the technical effects of declaring the contract of employment. I am not very sure that they stand purely technically in this way, but rather I want to ask you the following: if this refugee is not given the opportunity with his work to support himself, what should we do with him? Should we keep paying him? He wants to work, he can't work, but we have to give him life and life?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u72	Second line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, the so-called identity determination in the refugee centers of people who do not have identity documents is a card, a type of library card, I am telling you it is absolutely responsible, on which a picture is taken of the person concerned and writes the name that he has stated he has. Whether that's his name or not, no one can tell. From there, however, this person does not have any props provided for in the Bulgarian legislation, for example as a single personal number of a foreigner, for example I say. Further, that person may decide to remain in permanent residence. Based on this number it should also receive a single civil number, but I ask you another. You say: yes, we must provide work for this person. However, I ask you: well, should we not provide work for our Bulgarian citizens, our Bulgarian young people who are unemployed? Should we not care for our young ones, or should we be extremely concerned about people who, even in most cases, do not have refugee status? They are people who violate the Bulgarian border, illegally crossing the border, as they come from a country where there is no conflict in which there is no threat to their lives, as is the case with the majority of the so-called refugees from Syria. I understand the tragedy of these people. I'm not some anti-humanist, but a lot of them, as evidenced, are refugees for economic reasons, just looking for work. And we will also have to include them in these programmes, for example for youth employment or in a program for promoting the employment of Bulgarian citizens over 50 years of age, because the vast majority of unemployed are precisely such Bulgarian citizens who are over 50 years of age, and it turns out that people over 50 do not want them anywhere, although they are the best-built working habits. This is the crucial moment. Otherwise, I understand that you have imported the text with the best intentions, I do not blame you, but in this way it will cause very serious trouble for the Bulgarian state, believe me. If you accept the text this way, you will see that this will give a negative reflection very soon. Why don't you ask yourself why, for example, Germany or another European country does not provide work for these people?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u74	It's a legal option.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u75	A flat, my ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u76	Legal opportunity, not equal. Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, and I will make a statement on the text of Mr. Bayraktarov. This is what we're talking about. Since the beginning of the parliamentary activity of the Forty- Third National Assembly, there have been submitted concrete and different bills that concern Bulgarians abroad, but we have not yet found a solution for them. We are currently looking at how to allow someone to be a refugee or illegal immigrant, which will be established after that additionally, to have the right to work and reside in Bulgaria, but for Bulgarians who are example from Ukraine in Bulgaria at the moment, no mechanism has been found for them to remain legally without returning to Ukraine. I mean, what do we do? We discredit Bulgarians who have a document of Bulgarian origin, we make them comply with the laws of the Bulgarian state and illegal immigrants or refugees because they are not known whether they are refugees or illegal immigrants, we give them rights. I wonder if we're a Bulgarian country?! Why do we discriminate against Bulgarians who want to come to live and stay in Bulgaria and work here with any legal obstacles from the institutions, and those who come uninvited to Bulgaria, who have no connection with the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian people, give rights?! I ask: when the problem is solved for one, why not solve for those who are Bulgarians and have a document about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u78	- What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Angelov, I will read you why. A little further in the texts is written:........................................................................... Art. 35 is amended as follows:... From the same texts to see what colleagues from the DPS who are proposing it have written and what they are voting on from the Reformation bloc and GERB: Art. 35. A foreigner with granted international protection is required to appear in the municipality of the settlement to be established in order to be entered in the register of the population within 14 days of receiving the decision to grant international protection. So we're going to increase the population this way. There are a lot of provisions in the texts themselves. If you read it from end to end, you will see that there are quite scandalous things, including that a party, organisation or international organisation that controls the state or parts of the state can also provide protection. If you tell me who this party or organization is, or an international organization that controls the Republic of Bulgaria, go out and say it here so we know what you voted for. [[Noise and lines.]] This is in art. 8, where you've all voted for. There is further a change in the transit centres. Just a week ago, there was a scandal about the hot spots. I think those hot spots were the transit centers. What is happening is this: Mrs. Kristalina Georgieva said that immigrants will solve our demographic problem. It is this Law that clearly seeks to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u80	Second line? I won't. Mr. Angelov, would you like to use the back? Mr. Angelov, that was a line to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I didn't quite get the line. I wonder why an Ataka representative replicates me when I defend the interest of Bulgarians abroad? I think if they declared themselves patriots, nationalists or patriots, they would stand up and say, "You're right, that's true!" The interests of Bulgarians abroad must be protected. Thanks for the line, but it didn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u82	Mr. Slavov said he wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! I will try to propose something constructive in the form of editorial change by stepping on the proposal that my colleague Atanasov and I had tabled and which the Commission as a whole has not accepted. I think it contained something quite useful, which could be useful in this case, and we could include it in para. 3 of art. 29 as amended by the Commission. I suggest you finally add the following text before the point: When a registration card under para is issued to him. 1, t. 7 and successfully completed a major course in Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u84	This is what you propose as the second sentence of para. 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u85	No, as a continuation of para. 3. I'll give it to you in writing, Madam President. As a continuation of the last sentence, that is, the point is replaced by a comma and this text is added. What are our motives in this case? Obviously, under a number of international treaties, there is a requirement for our country that these proceedings do not last forever, and if they continue, then that the person concerned should be given access to the labour market, or elsewhere. It seems to me that the person should still be useful, to be able to participate in this labour market as a full participant, should at least have a basic knowledge of Bulgarian language, i.e. the official language in the country in which he is located. And what my colleague Bayraktarov was worried about, his face being identified. I mean, he got the registration card under that. 7 in the version of the Commission, to be at least clear where it comes from, to establish its origin and so on, if there are no documents. Adding these two requirements to this case, I think that we are practically not making it difficult for foreigners and refugees seeking asylum, but at the same time guaranteeing the rights of Bulgarian citizens and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u86	Any lines to Mr. Slavov's proposal? I won't. Mr. Stanilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u87	First, to the colleagues of the Patriotic Front. I'll say that the line doesn't necessarily mean a confrontational thesis, but sometimes it's done to pass the ball. If you can take that ball, you can play the whole thesis to the end, and it's very successful, but it's separate. I would like to say something about exactly these scandalous clauses in the Draft Law, which are actually destroying the Bulgarian statehood. What is the meaning of the clause of the territory of the country under control? Who controls the country? It is controlled by the European Union economically and militaryly by NATO. So they can protect foreigners, too, and they can do whatever the Law pleads. Otherwise, outside of this text, in the context of the Open Society they control it, the NGOs are all sorts of different "America for Bulgaria" and so on and so on, put in the circle of the joke and in the circle of the extreme seriousness of the situation. Colleagues, this Law is scandalous, it destroys the Bulgarian statehood. It discriminates against the Bulgarians not only those who are inside the country, it discriminates against those who are outside the country. It is high time for us to stop performing like this because we will end up without both a country and a nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u88	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Honourable Professor. Stanilov, I take a cue not in principle, but essentially because they are starting to gain strength from absolutely manipulative and false claims that have nothing to do with objectivity or the right order. I will not go into details why are the specific records that you interpret, in my opinion, completely outside the context. These are expressions adopted in the Convention concerning the accommodation of refugees in areas of special status, obviously during the implementation of a military conflict. I take the line to bring you back to the beginning, to what my colleague Dessislava Atanasova read as a content of § 2. Our obligations under these texts stem from the Convention on the Status of Refugees, drawn up in Geneva on 28 July 1951, the Protocol on the Status of Refugees. We apply in legislation the following two Directives: Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. As the previous debates have said, honourable Members, even if we do not write them in the text of the Law, these directives have direct effect on our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u90	Second line, please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry for wasting your time. I have a deep respect for professor. Stanilov and I can say that in the Commission engaged with Bulgarians abroad, we work wonderfully, we have good relations and we think alike. I would tell him that I don't need anyone, either from Attack or from another party, to pick up my ball to play something. I had plenty of time in my speech to be able to say other things if I wanted to. So thanks for throwing the ball, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u92	Third line? I won't. The hole is a prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u93	Mr. Kirilov, we have a different philosophy and the contradiction between you and me is quite natural. It has a civilisational character, philosophical character and, after all, in a certain sense of the word... and moral character. You have not objected to me in substance or otherwise, and you have quoted European directives to me. These European directives, when opposed to the interests of the Bulgarian people, are not valid in my mind as well as in the philosophy of my party. We are not for this Europe, which gives directives, but we are for another Europe, which will give directives that benefit the Bulgarians. Such a Europe will one day have those who have been against this Europe will be ashamed in this House. I may not be alive, but then the interests of the Bulgarian people will be protected here. I have nothing to say, and I cannot object to the European directives, because to me they are outside my consciousness, outside my morals and my philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u94	To speak, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, as you read and what Mrs. Atanasova read, I will also read to you. 3, where it is said: "The protection of time is represented in the case of a mass invasion of foreigners, but it does not say where. If they enter the crossings, it's one thing, but if they enter the green border, isn't that a violation of the Penal Code?! In which case should the European directives conflict with national law and, in particular, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria?! In the cited acts, including Geneva, correct me if I am wrong, but I think it was written in the Geneva Convention that refugee status is given in the first secure country where the desired status arrives. Currently in the border regions of the Republic of Bulgaria, apart from an isolated case in Macedonia, I do not know there are other military conflicts or such of a mass nature that will cause refugee waves. Interestingly, here, perhaps within a week or a week or two ago, there was a broad debate about how the migration flow, passing through Macedonia, Serbia and other countries, headed to Austria and Germany as endpoints, missed Bulgaria. Now with amendments as a whole of the Bill and in particular, later giving already in the provisions of art. 47, para. 2, p. You are setting up such centres, the so-called hotspots, possibly if we do not confuse the translation from German, where I will read you the last words: To provide international protection to foreigners. If necessary, proceedings shall also be carried out to grant international protection to foreigners. That is, once arrived in Bulgaria, we retain the old status, but we give opportunities for new status, granting status for international protection. Correct me if I am wrong, but it is in the international rules or Dublin Convention that, if I am not mistaken, which is also at the heart of European legislation that a refugee who has been given can be returned to where he has obtained the status of such refugee. This is the Republic of Bulgaria. You in the same way as I read you earlier in art. 35, you have recorded that it is required to register within 14 days in the register of the place where it wants to reside. What Professor Told you. Stanilov, it's not out of context. It's out of art. 8 to § 10, where para. 7 I can read to you the entire content of the article......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now if you answer me which part of the state, the Republic of Bulgaria is controlled by a party, an organization...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u96	I don't know which member you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u97	sc. is not in art. 7 and in art. 8, para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u98	We voted on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u99	Yeah, we voted it out. I'm saying it in the context of talking so far. It is with the texts that are being proposed to us so far, including the editorial changes proposed by the Reformation Block, as nice as it sounds to be learning Bulgarian language, excuse me, but I cannot accept this thing. Excuse me, but if you look at how it is embedded in the context of our weekly programme.... exactly between two financial laws, review of the DPC.. first reading, and suddenly there is a second reading of the Law on Refugees and Asylums, you will see that there is some play here. I don't know if you're playing with the DPS or who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u100	Stop it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u101	It's not enough! Why do we have to look at it right now? And why should he write about a party or an organization?! There are extremely many harmful provisions in the legislation itself. So I turned to my colleague from the Patriotic Front. I didn't criticize them. On the contrary, I decided to elaborate on what they said. This is not just about the labour market. It's about something much bigger. Because you and some of the regulations are walking towards what Kristalina Georgieva called on months ago to fix Bulgaria's demographics by accepting refugees. You are walking towards the violation, including giving status to people who, in violation of the Penal Code, cross the state border.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u102	Colleagues, the debate has already passed as a debate on the first vote, not on specific texts that are subject to discussion. We are going back to the texts that have already been voted on. Please follow the rules! The time available to each Member of the National Assembly is to make a statement and proposals on the specific texts that are subject to debate. First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate has really shifted and we've turned it into a speech room. I would remind my fellow Members, including colleagues from the patriotic formations who have representatives in the Committee on Legal Affairs, that this bill has been a priority since last year. Last year, in December, the penal procedure began effectively on the fact that we have not implemented the two directives in question, which I say again: although not implemented directly in the Bulgarian legislation. Regarding the texts you have read, there is no way I can comment on them, because you are putting absolutely turning and different content than what is in the texts. There's no way we can start explaining the same person at first. I'm sending you not only to Al. 7, see exclusion in para. 3, because there begins the enumeration and it is standard, classic, type for this kind of relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u104	Second line? I don't see anyone willing. A hole, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, I have looked at them! My interpretation is as it is written. In fact, I didn't develop an interpretation, I just read verbatim what is written in para. 7. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] No, I have done exactly the same way that you regularly do with a number of other bills. Madam President, as for commenting on whether it is complete, I apologize if it was. I will also ask you then to be able to look at text by text and not read all the paragraphs as far as we can at a wonderful time to say: as long as you let us now talk on them so that we can run on them. The fact that there are no proposals does not mean that the Members of the National Assembly cannot express them in this House or may not comment in the debate. If you tell me where it is stated in the Constitution or in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, okay, I will agree with you. Since it is not specified, I will ask you to be paragraph-by-paragraph and to be able to examine them. In this way it will be more accessible to absolutely all representation and everyone will understand what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u106	Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, colleagues, I will not attack either or the others and do not seek such a subtext in my speech. With a lot of things they say, both of them, and the others, I agree. Of course, all Africa, Asia, and the Middle East couldn't come here, and because they had a need or a desire, or they really liked it, I had to support them. Of course, there are already people in Bulgaria who have come and we have to take care of them. However, the specific texts that the alien had the right to access the labour market, including participation in international programmes, that a medical examination reveals whether this foreigner seeking protection belongs to a vulnerable group or has special needs, that this review will be carried out by a doctor, nurse or a paramedic. I want to make one thing clear: these people I didn't invite, nor did I write them a telegram to come! If someone chased them somewhere with the yatagans after crossing the first border, no one is chasing them anywhere. Coming through here on the way to I don't know where you are, I don't have to support them, feed them or anything, because then they might decide to come back and go somewhere else. It's like every one of you going to Central Station and who's going where you're going, if you need it, to satisfy them. I don't think that's our role. We're talking about a social, health system and funds. Funds financed not by the European Union but by our salaries. When I pay my salary and you give me a reprieve, I give it to her with the goal of functioning the state; it is for my children, for my parents, for my loved ones. Everyone else can't come and grab my wallet and take out whatever they want from him. The foreigner who came to Bulgaria cannot, just because he declared himself sick or belonging to some vulnerable group, automatically obtain status. So, it turns out that when he crosses the border and says, "I'm sick of one thing-what you are, the Bulgarian health system to adopt me by life. In the same way a person who has not received status can not hold on to the funds to train him, give him the opportunity for professions, because these are funds that are for us Bulgarians. If Europe is financing some kind of fund specifically for them, yes. In no case should they toss the Bulgarian funds financed by us just because they liked it or because they have some disease. A priori, when they left, knew they had this disease. In no way can I agree that a paramedic, a nurse, can assess whether this person is vulnerable to a group and has special needs. Let me just remind you: any Bulgarian, when he wants to be identified as sick with the relevant group, goes to TelK, to specialists in the relevant area. I doubt that the paramedic is a specialist in everything in Bulgaria and can immediately say what you are sick of, whether you are entitled to protection and whether it should be lifelong. So I suggest this text is dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u108	Which text to drop?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u109	Points 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u110	Excuse me, Mr. Dimitrov. In § 24, you shall make an offer in art. 29, first in para. 1 point (b)...... what to [[Reference between the National Representative Emil Dimitrov and the President Tsetska Tsacheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u111	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. We vote on paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 70 against 5, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the proposals of Mr. Peter Slavov and Atanas Atanasov on the Commission report, which the Commission does not support. Vote 80 MPs: 16 against 14, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Votings on editorial proposals and proposals to reject the texts of § 24. First, under the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to put to the vote the proposals for rejection in § 24, item. 3, para. 3. This is Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal and part of Mr. Emil Dimitrov's proposal, as he proposes other texts to be rejected. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal and part of Mr. Emil Dimitrov's proposal to reject para. 3 times t. 1. Vote 80 MPs: 15 against 20, abstention 45. The proposals have not been accepted. We are voting on Mr. Emil Dimitrov's motion for rejection of the item. 4 and 5 of § 24. They voted 83 MPs: 17 against 23, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal to supplement para. 3, then the subparagraph shall sound like this: The Foreigner shall have the right to access the labour market, including participation in programmes and projects financed by the State budget or under international or European financing, if the proceedings are not completed within three months of his application for international protection, for reasons beyond his control and when he has been issued a registration card under para. 1, t. 7 and successfully completed a major course in Bulgarian language. Isn't that right, Mr. Slavov? Now that we've cleared this up with you, that's the right proposal. We vote on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 91 MPs: 20, against 15, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u112	We are voting § 24 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 70 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the report... paragraph 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u113	The 25th paragraph is a proposal from Kiril Alexandrov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by making the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. do not change the address assigned by the order of art. 29, para. 8, without permission from the State Agency for Refugees; (b) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." not enter areas designated by or authorised by the President of the State Agency for Refugees; (c) the so-called t. 7, 8 and 9 are respectively t. 8, 9 and 10; (d) shall be established. 11: "11." not to leave its designated zone. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: A foreigner seeking international protection may leave the designated zone or enter the areas under para. 1, t. 6 or 7 with the permission of the President of the State Agency for Refugees or an official authorised by him. (3) Refusal to issue an authorisation to leave the designated zone or to enter the areas under para. 1, t. 6 or 7 is motivated. Permission shall not be required where the foreigner seeking international protection has to appear before a court, an administrative body or needs specialized medical care. Paragraph 26 "The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u114	Statements? I can't see. We are voting first, § 25 by importer through the version of the Commission. We vote supported by the Commission and edited by it § 25. Vote 71 MPs: 64, against 3, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the texts supported by the Commission for paragraphs 26, 27, 28. Vote 66 MPs: 63 against 2, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Proceed with § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u115	Paragraph 29? a proposal by Slavov and Atanasov: In § 29, Article 29 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Art. 33. Unaccompanied minors who have received international protection shall be accommodated until the age of age of a family of relatives or relatives, foster family, social service, resident type or specialized institution under the terms and conditions of the Child Protection Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u116	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. We are voting, honourable Members, § 29 by importer, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u117	We have an unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u118	Yes, I'm sorry. We have an unsupported proposal. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov. They voted 67 MPs: for 7, against 17, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on § 29 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 66 MPs: 64, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Article 35 is amended as follows: Art. 35. A foreigner with international protection is required to appear in the municipality of the settlement to be established in order to be entered in the register of the population within 14 days of receiving the decision to grant international protection. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. For § 36 was proposed by the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov: "Paragraph 36, Article 39 to be amended as follows: "1." Alinea 4 is amended as follows: (4) Unaccompanied minors who benefit from temporary protection are accommodated in a family of relatives or in a close, foster family, social service, a resident type, or in a specialised institution, under the terms and conditions of the Child Protection Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u120	Statements? I can't see. Firstly, we are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov for § 36. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. They voted 75 MPs: 11 against 23, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Now, fellow Members, we are voting on anblock proposals which are supported by the Commission and accordingly edited by the Committee on Import and they are art. 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, and § 36. We are voting in favour of the Commission paragraphs. Vote 76 MPs: 67 against 7, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u121	According to § 37 there is a proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 2 is finally added within three days of the registration of the foreigner seeking international protection. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38. Under § 39, there is a proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u122	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting for anbloc supported and edited by the Commission texts for paragraphs 37, 38 and 39. We are voting in favour of the Commission paragraphs. Vote 74 MPs: 70 against 2, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u123	According to § 40 there is a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov: In § 40: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45c. 4 a new sentence shall be added after the first with the following text: The Court of Justice shall examine the appeal in open session and shall rule by decision within one month of the opening of the case and shall take the following final form: (4) The decision under para. 3 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code, and the appeal shall not suspend its execution. The Court of Justice shall examine the action in open court and decide by decision within one month of the case being brought. The court's decision is final. 2. Art. 45, para. 4 a new sentence shall be added after the first with the following text: The Court of Justice shall examine the appeal in open session and shall rule by decision within one month of the opening of the case and shall take the following final form: (4) The decision under para. 3 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code, and the appeal shall not suspend its execution. The Court of Justice shall examine the action in open court and decide by decision within one month of the case being brought. The court's decision is final. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para is being created. 5 and para. 6 with the following text: (5) The decision on accommodation under para. 1 shall be issued in writing and shall contain the factual and legal grounds for lodging, order and period of appeal, as well as the possibility of providing free legal assistance and representation. (6) The decision under para. 1 may be appealed under the Administrative Code of Procedure and the appeal shall not suspend its execution. The Court of Justice shall examine the action in open court and decide by decision within one month of the case being brought. The court's decision is final. 4. In § 40, to Article 45d, para. 1 point 6 is added "Access to medical and psychological assistance.' The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... Section V with art. 4 shall be created in Chapter 4. 45a "45f": "Department V............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Art. 45a. For the timely examination of the application for international protection or for the provision of the participation of the foreigner seeking such protection, the President of the State Agency for Refugees or an official authorised by him may order mandatory appearance of the foreigner every two weeks during the proceedings before an official of the Agency. Art. 45b. (1) Where the measure under art. 1 cannot be effectively implemented. 45a and after assessing the circumstances of the case, a foreigner seeking international protection may be accommodated temporarily and for as short as possible within a closed-ended centre: 1. to establish or verify its identity or nationality; 2. establishing the facts and circumstances on which the application for international protection is based where it cannot be carried out otherwise and there is a danger that the foreigner may be concealed; 3. where necessary to protect national security or public order; 4. establishing the State responsible for examining the application for international protection and the transfer of the foreigner to the competent State and where there is a serious danger that the foreigner may be hidden. (2) A foreigner seeking international protection may not be accommodated in a closed-ended centre solely on the grounds that he has applied for international protection. Art. 45c. (1) A foreigner seeking international protection shall be accommodated in a closed-ended centre by a reasoned decision of the President of the State Agency for Refugees or of an official authorised by him. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be taken after assessment of the foreigner's belonging to a vulnerable group. (3) The decision under para. 1 shall be issued in writing and shall contain the factual and legal grounds for lodging, order and period of appeal, as well as the possibility of providing free legal assistance and representation. (4) A copy of the decision shall be served according to the order of art. 76. (5) The decision of the authority under para. 1 may be appealed under the Administrative Code of Procedure and the appeal shall not suspend its execution. The court's decision is final. Art. Forty-five years. (1) Accommodation in a closed-ended centre shall continue until the relevant grounds under art. 45b, para. 1. (2) The Director of a closed-ended centre in which a foreigner seeking international protection is accommodated shall carry out a monthly check of the grounds for accommodation and report them to the President of the State Agency for Refugees or an official authorised by him. (3) The President of the State Agency for Refugees or an official authorised by him shall review the decision on accommodation under art. 45c. 1 in the event of the establishment of new data and circumstances, or at the request of the foreigner seeking international protection, and shall be given a reasoned decision within 7 days. (4) The decision under para. 3 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code, and the appeal shall not suspend its execution. The court's decision is final. (5) Failure to conclude proceedings within the period laid down by this law shall not be the fault of the foreigner seeking international protection. (6) Where it is established by administrative or judicial order that accommodation in a closed-ended centre is unlawful, the alien shall be released immediately. (7) Foreigners seeking international protection shall move from one centre to another only if necessary. In such cases, persons providing legal assistance shall be notified. Art. 45d. (1) Foreigners seeking international protection accommodated in closed-ended centres shall be entitled to: 1. access to open spaces; 2. visits by members of their families; 3. respect for their privacy; 4. meetings with persons providing legal assistance and representation, representatives of non-profit legal entities and international organisations; 5. information on the internal rules of the centre concerned, as well as on their rights and obligations. The information shall be provided in a language understood by them. (2) Limits of the rights under para. 1 shall only be allowed where it is necessary to secure the security, public policy or administrative management of the closed-ended centre, provided that access is not significantly limited or impossible. (3) In relation to foreigners from a vulnerable group who are accommodated in a closed-ended centre, supervision shall be carried out and appropriate assistance shall be provided where necessary with a view to their particular situation. Art. 45f. (1) Minor and minor foreigners seeking international protection may be accommodated in closed-ended centres only as a last resort in order to preserve the integrity of the family or to ensure their protection and security as soon as possible, making every effort to accommodate them in suitable places for them. (2) Adolescents and minors seeking international protection placed in centres of the State Agency for Refugees shall be provided with access to education and the opportunity to engage in activities in their spare time, including games and entertainment activities suitable for their age. (3) Accommodation at the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees shall be carried out in compliance with the principle of preserving the integrity of the family. (4) In the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees, foreigners seeking international protection shall be accommodated separately from males, except when they are members of a family and have given their consent to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u124	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. First, we vote unsupported by the Commission a proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov. Cease the vote outside the Chamber and come in and vote in the Chamber! Vote 68 MPs: 20, against 8, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We shall proceed to the vote of § 40 by importer by the version of the Commission. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 75, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u125	Under § 41, there is a proposal from the MPs Alexandrova and Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." transit centres for registration, accommodation, medical examination and proceedings for the determination of the State responsible for examining the application for international protection and for accelerated proceedings for foreigners seeking protection; where necessary, proceedings for the granting of international protection to foreigners shall also be carried out; (b) c. 2 all over the word "statut" shall be replaced by "International Protection"; (c) point 3 is repealed. 2. A new para is being created. 4. The centers referred to in paragraph 4 shall be the centers referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article. 2 may be of open or closed type. Individual premises for unaccompanied minors seeking international protection may be established in open-ended centres as well as separate private spaces or closed-ended areas. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. Under § 43, there is a proposal from the MPs Alexandrova and Kirilov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 29, para. 4-7 "s' are replaced by "shut up'. 29, para. 4 and para. 7-11, with the exception of decisions on accommodation in closed-ended-type centres Under § 43, there is a proposal from the MPs Kirilov and Alexandrova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 after the words. 48, para. 1, t. Articles 1 to 4 and 6 shall be added. 53, p. 12 " and the word "statut" is replaced by "International Protection." Under § 45, there is a proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with Article 45. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the importer's text in principle and proposes the following version of $ 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." organizes the reception and temporary accommodation of foreigners applying for international protection and assists them in adapting to the Bulgarian conditions in cooperation with the Bulgarian Red Cross and other non-governmental organizations and organizes courses in Bulgarian language together with the Ministry of Education and Science. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the word "statut" is replaced by "International Protection" and after the words "to whomever it is" is added "to this end." 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 the word "statut" is replaced by "International Protection." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46. A proposal has been made under § 47, which I will read after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u126	Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members, we will support the texts thus adopted. I just want to say what is the controversial moment around which perhaps others will try to talk. The Transit Centers.. The Centers for Registration, Accommodation and Medical Research. It's no secret to you that we made one in Telish huge, for 14,000. souls, where we could gather absolutely all of them, guard them, divide them by species, ethnicities, by religion, men, women, and give them the necessary service, and we could protect ourselves from them, and they would protect us and so on, and when Europe decided to accept them, to accept them. We had to shut it down and bring it to the center of Sofia. A huge mistake, they'll never leave Sofia. These people are in Bulgaria anyway. They should be in such centers: firstly, not being able to get sick from them and export all kinds of disease and problems. On the other hand, when they are under control, when the relevant documents are issued, when they are told which area they are entitled to reside in, it would put them under much more control and protect us from them and them from us. So I call on you to support all these texts. We discussed them in the Commission and reached a common opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u128	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are voting for paragraphs 41, 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46 by importer, respectively supported or edited by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u129	Under § 47 a proposal has been made by the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov, which is not supported by the Commission: "1." In § 47, paragraph 4 is added. 5, establishing paragraph 8: It's 8 o'clock. the opinion of the SANS under para. 7 should be justified by the factual and legal grounds for the conclusion contained therein. The foreigner shall be given the opportunity to exercise the rights provided for in Article 34, para. Art. 3 and Art. 35 of the Administrative Procedure Code, in compliance with the special rules under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, § 48, § 49, § 50 and § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u130	So far, because after that, there are no unsupported ones. Statements under paragraphs 47 to 51? I won't. We are voting for a proposal not supported by the Commission, by the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov for § 47. Vote 75 MPs: 12, Against 14, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are voting on paragraphs 47, 48, 49, 50 and 51, including by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. The reading of paragraphs 52 to 75 there is no support. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u131	Under § 52, there is a proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. The Commission also supported two of the sub-cons. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the subsp., also supported. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence of the sentence is replaced by the following: 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The foreigner is obliged to present all the evidence in support of his application for international protection until his ruling on it, and in the event that he does not present them, the ruling shall take place without such evidence. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: An interview shall be conducted with the foreigner, where audio or audio-visual recording is made and a protocol shall be drawn up. At the beginning of the interview, the foreigner shall be informed of the performance of audio or audio-visual recording. The minutes of the interview and audio or audio-visual recording are an integral part of the foreigner's personal file. 4. A new para is being created. 4. The Interviewing Authority shall conduct additional interviews if necessary for the needs of the relevant production. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the word "statut" is replaced by "International Protection." 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6. 7. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words "language" which may be considered to be possessed by the foreigner are replaced by the language of his own language. 8. Previously on AMC's... 7, 8 and 9 become respectively. 8, 9 and 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54. Paragraphs 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61 are also supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 5 words................................................................................. 63a, para. The following points are inserted after Paragraph 62 shall be supported by the Commission which shall become § 63. Paragraph 63 is also supported by the Commission and becomes § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 65. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 65, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the case of a decision on the application for international protection, all relevant facts, declarations or documents relating to the personal situation of the applicant, to his country of origin or to the possibility to benefit from the protection of another State whose nationality he may acquire, including whether the applicant has exercised activities the sole purpose of which is to obtain international protection. 2. A new para is being created. 3: If the applicant's claims are not supported by evidence, they shall be considered credible if he has made an effort to justify his application, he has given a satisfactory explanation of the lack of evidence and his statements have been judged to be irreconcilable and credible. The lack of sufficient data for persecution, including due to non-interview under art. 63a, para. 6 may not be the basis for refusing to grant international protection. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, 67, 68. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the status' shall be replaced by "the international protection granted'. 2. In para. 2 the word "statut" is replaced by "International Protection." 3. In para. 3 the word "the status" is replaced by "the international protection." 4. In para. 4 the word "statut" is replaced by "International Protection" and the words "Art." 75, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 75, para. 4............................................................................................ 5. In para. 5 and 6 the word "Statute" is replaced by "International Protection." Paragraph 70 is supported by the Commission. Paragraphs 71, 72, 73 are also supported. The text of the proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov and Atanas Atanasov for § 74 is also supported. The proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and Anna Alexandrova has been withdrawn. The proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74, which shall become § 75: ................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the word "supplier" is deleted. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: the following point (d) is (d) parents or any other adult family member who is liable under a law or custom for the minor who has not been married to whom international protection has been granted. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words................................................................................. 10, para. 1 of Council Directive 2004/83/EC on minimum standards for the recognition and legal status of third-country nationals or stateless persons as refugees or as persons who, for other reasons, need international protection, and on the content of the protection granted. 10 (1) of Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards for the designation of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, the single status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection, and the content of the protection granted (OJ L 337/9 of 20 December 2011.) 4. point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. The request is a request for international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria that the foreigner applies after the international protection or the proceedings for the granting of international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria have been terminated and the foreigner has not left the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 5. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." The State of origin shall be the State or States of nationality of the foreigner or of a stateless person of the State of his previous ordinary residence. 6.C. 9. (a) in the text prior to the letter (s), the word (s) shall be replaced by supplied by the European Parliament and the Council, the Council (b) in point (d), the words "or opinion" shall be deleted; (c) in point (d) the word "protected' shall be replaced by "international asylum'. 7. They're creating a t. 10? 17: ..10. A request for protection from a foreigner to the Republic of Bulgaria has been made. 11. The best interest of the child is a concept within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Child Protection Act. 12. The Open Type Center is a territorial unit of the State Agency for Refugees with Free Mode. 13. "Closed-type centre" is a territorial unit of the State Agency for Refugees, in which the right to free movement of foreigners seeking international protection is restricted. 14. The President of the State Agency for Refugees has appointed the administrative area which the foreigner seeking international protection cannot leave and which gives sufficient opportunity for movement to ensure the exercise of the rights under this law. 15. In the light of the actual data, a reasonable assumption can be made that the foreigner will try to hide himself. Such data may be available where the foreigner cannot be found at his authorised address, has left without permission his designated zone or accommodation centre, has not appeared without a good reason to an official of the State Agency for Refugees in implementation of an implementing measure under art. 45a, violated the ban on entering the border zone, attempted to leave or leave the country, as well as other data. 16. A foreigner seeking international protection with special needs is a person of a vulnerable group who needs special guarantees in order to benefit from the rights and fulfil its obligations under this law. 17. "Faces of a vulnerable group" are minors or minors, unaccompanied minors, disabled persons, elderly people, pregnant women, single parents with underage children, victims of human trafficking, persons with severe health problems, persons with mental disorders and persons who have suffered torture, rape or other severe forms of mental, physical or sexual violence. "Additional provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 75, which shall become § 76: § 76. This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the designation of third-country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, the uniform status of refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection and the content of protection granted and the requirements of Directive 2013/33/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards on the acceptance of applicants for international protection (OB, L 180/96 of 29 June 2013).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 78. Under § 78, there is a proposal from the MPs Kirilov and Alexandrova, which is supported. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 78, which shall become § 79: ....... 79........................................................................... The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 1, t. 1 the words "up to 5 years' are replaced by "three to five years'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63a, para. 4 the words "guardian or guardian" shall be replaced by "or a representative of the municipality." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63b, para. 2 the words "guardian or guardian" shall be replaced by "or a representative of the municipality." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 82. The Commission supports Daniel Kirilov's proposal for § 82, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 82, which shall become § 83: § 83. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 40, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u132	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 52 to 83 including, together with the name Those paragraphs shall be supported by the Commission or by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I request a procedure for extending the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 502-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers, and under the Bill on Accounting, No 502-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers, at the maximum period of four weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u134	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the two drafts of the maximum possible deadline for a total of four weeks. We vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to: FIRST READING OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-OSSIGNICAL CODEX. We are listening to the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u135	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 454-01-46, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2015; and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. At a meeting held on 24 September 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Code, No 454-01-46, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs; the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2015; and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. The bills with importer The Council of Ministers were presented by Mr. Fezy Bekir "Deputy Minister of Finance." The bill with importer Petar Slavov and a group of MPs was presented by Mr. Petar Slavov. I. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015, the following is clarified: The bill provides for the establishment of a new Section 111a in Title Two, Chapter 16a, to regulate the implementation of administrative cooperation through automatic exchange of financial information in the field of taxation with participating jurisdictions, the obligation of financial institutions providing information to collect it, the application of procedures for complex verification and the provision of financial information. Apart from the above, the Republic of Bulgaria must, by 31 December 2015, bring its national legislation into line with the provisions of Directive 2014/107/EU, thereby regulating a special type of administrative cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Member States of the European Union, third countries and the European Commission through automatic exchange of financial information. In the subsequent discussion of the Bill, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed support. The vote carried out ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. II. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2015, the following is clarified: According to the importers, the current provisions in the DPCC are refined with the proposed changes in order to optimize the process of establishing taxes and compulsory insurance contributions and facilitate the interinstitutional interaction; the statutory regime for the enforcement of public claims and increasing collection rates, as well as the synchronization and uniformisation of the regulatory regulation concerning the recovery of public and private claims is improved. In relation to the submitted Bill, opinions of the Institute of Graduated Accountants and the Association of Accounting Enterprises were presented. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. Most of the participants in the discussion expressed their doubts about the happiness of the proposed changes concerning: - The amendment to Art. 19 of the DCC: the extension of liability for non-collection of tax obligations and compulsory insurance contributions, other than the person in charge, but also a member of a management body, manager, prosecutor, sales representative, sales agent, and any other authorised person operating in management. - There were reservations in connection with the modification of art. 32 of the D.O.D.K. The proposal is to remove the imperative requirement for simultaneous placing of the message on the dashboard and its publication on the Internet, allowing the revenue body to choose one of the two ways of disclosure. There were objections: - on the new article. 59a of DODK "Species on-the-spot" - on the cancellation of art. 129, para. 5, t. 3 under which amounts, benefits and expenses shall be awarded to the debtor to be seized or recovered in favour of the debtor in the course of judicial or administrative proceedings. Disagreement was also expressed by the addition of art. 171, para. 2 of the PDC, which provides for the exclusions in the case of deferral and deferral in respect of which the absolute ten-year limitation does not apply, to include the hypothesis in which the execution is suspended; - as well as the modification of art. 172, para. 1, t. 1 of the DPC, by which an amendment is proposed to waive the one-year limitation of the limitation period for suspension of limitation during revision. Disagreement on the amendment of art. 182, which provides for the cancellation of the obligation of public applicants to send invitations for voluntary execution; - as well as on art. 195, para. 6 proposing the imposition of collateral at the insurance value of the assets instead of the carrying amount; - to art. 216, para. In the main text, the proposed change concerns the possibility of the NRA to conduct proceedings for the declaration of invalidity of transfer transactions after accumulated overdue debts established in addition to public claims acts but also after a declaration lodged which is also a enforceable basis under art. 209 of the D.O.D.C. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee have expressed their principled support for the draft so proposed. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2015. III. The bill amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code No 454-01-46, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, made the following clarifications: First of all, it is proposed to introduce changes to the existing DODC concerning the one established in art. 134 of the DODC order for the renewal of revision proceedings in the event of the entry into force of the revision act. Secondly, it is proposed to change the provision of art. 155 and the development of the main principle of the administrative process for making the applicant's situation worse. Thirdly, paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Act proposes amendments concerning a change of rules relating to the determination of local jurisdiction in administrative matters initiated under the Administrative Procedure Code (PKI). Importers believe that this will contribute to speeding up judicial proceedings in administrative courts in the capital and major cities. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, Sofia Municipality, Ministry of Finance and NRA were requested and presented. The importer Mr. Slavov expressed his opinion that, subject to the legal order, he will withdraw his proposal under § 1 of the proposed Law. In the subsequent discussion were expressed opinions and opinions that are against the proposed changes related to the new order for determining the local defendant in the administrative cases initiated by the APC, namely to the 28 administrative courts in Bulgaria. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee have expressed their principled support for the draft so proposed. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 454-01-46, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importers? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say a few words about the bill that we have tabled with colleagues from the Reformation Block. I will not dwell on the elements of it that are indisputable. You have heard from the Commission's report that § 1 on which some discussions arose, I have expressed my willingness to withdraw it between the two readings, leaving the other good things in the Bill. First of all, to remain this fundamental principle, the inability to aggravate the applicant's situation in the process. That is to say, in a new revision, his situation cannot be aggravated by inventing, as people often express, new and new tax obligations for the same period, perhaps only because he has decided to challenge the original. The other essential thing that I hope will be useful and which in any case will also ease the courts and speed up the trial, as well as a number of representatives of the judiciary have already said, commenting on the bill, is in the next § 4. I'm not gonna stop at that. I would rather draw attention to the fact that I hope this will be useful both for citizens and for the administration itself................................................................................................ For citizens, first of all, because they will have the opportunity to challenge administrative and tax acts before the Administrative Court at their permanent address and will not be forced to travel to the address of the authority which issued the act, as is currently the procedure. The tax administration, having divisions throughout the country, is in a much more relaxed position if it has to send a representative to another administrative court and not to its headquarters than a person who, for example, if lives on the other side of Bulgaria, will have to travel to Sofia n number of times for court hearings. I hope it will also be good for the tax administration itself to somewhat encourage its employees to be more thorough in issuing acts, with the assumption that in subsequent controls they would be a little more involved with them and that in the end they should really protect them. It's good to have them legal so they don't get canceled, at the very least. That's a very short cut. I hope you will support the Bill. I think we have a lot of useful things to offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u138	This is also the Commission's proposal, Mr. Slavov. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? There is. The debate will continue in the extraordinary session on Tuesday. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.]] One minute, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u139	Madam President, colleagues! There's no way I can not say a few words too quickly so that we can vote. I understand that it is good for us to vote and proceed with the procedure. We will support the information exchange bill tabled by the Council of Ministers. With regard to the other two bills, we have comments. We've expressed them in the Commission. We'll make written proposals. At the second vote, we will have the opportunity to debate in this House. I would like to stress here that, unfortunately, we have not received with these changes some of the expected changes, such as limiting the period of carrying out tax checks, which we have debated many times and have wanted to do so. Either way, it has not been submitted, but we will have the opportunity to submit it as a proposal between first and second readings. We're counting on it to be supported. Thank you. I hope I was short enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u140	And thank you, Mr. Turnover. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 502-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 502 01-62, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 July 2015. We vote. Vote 73 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. And last vote for today, I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 454-01-46, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 73 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Life has disproved me, and it's not the last vote for today. Mrs. Stoyanova has a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I ask that the three bills that we have just voted on be extended to the maximum possible... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u142	After you prepare a joint report on them, Mrs. Stoyanova, then you will make this procedural proposal. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] The vote really was the last one. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, one minute to move around the hall, because at 1300 hours, according to our programme, we continue with parliamentary control. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. It is announced with the starting hour.. 1:00 p.m., for the upcoming plenary week. There are no new requests for the period 25 September to 1 October 2015. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on three issues from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on three questions from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Kiril Kotsev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Vassilev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a request from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova. First in the current parliamentary control is Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, who will answer a question asked by the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Georg Georgiev on progress under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness." You have the floor, Mr. Georgiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lukarski, dear colleagues! The debate on the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of every economy is developing both in Bulgaria and in Europe very actively and in support of this thesis is actually our issue. As you know, in mid-March this year the European Commission approved the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and the first procedure for project selection was announced in early May, namely "P for the production capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises" under Operational Axis 2 for "Entrepreneurship and capacity for growth of small and medium-sized enterprises." The launch of the procedure is a good opportunity to provide investment support to the Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises to improve production processes, increase production capacity and strengthen the expertise. In this regard, my question to you is: how is the implementation of the above-mentioned procedure currently taking place, what is the interest shown by the business and within what time limits will this procedure be finalised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u144	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Lukarski, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Hubenova, Mr. Georgiev! I would like to start by thanking you for raising an extremely important and up-to-date issue for the Bulgarian business. The opportunities offered by the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" are great and the giving of publicity and publicity on this topic is important and necessary. On 8 July 2015 the first deadline for collecting the project proposals under the first announced procedure in the framework of OPEC was completed. The purpose of the procedure is to provide investment support to the Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises to improve production processes, increase production capacity and increase export potential. The total number of project proposals under assessment is 844 and 152 of them provide for activities carried out on the territory of the district cities in Northwestern Bulgaria. Here is the place to insert that, within the framework of the new operational programme, we have foreseen a regional prioritization for investments that are being implemented on the territory of the Northwestern region. As a result, it can be noted that about three times the interest of the business in this region has increased. These nearly 850 project proposals, which I am talking about, are submitted by enterprises in the low-tech and medium-tech industries, such as the production of textiles and textile products; clothing; timber; furniture; articles of paper and paperboard; metal production; printing activity; rubber and plastic products; food and beverage production; and others. The total amount of the grant under this procedure is 293 million. 374 thousand. 500 BGN, and the budget for financing the projects submitted within the first deadline is 117 million. 349 thousand. £800. The total amount of the total eligible expenditure requested for the projects submitted is 724 million. 599 thousand. BGN 137. 62, including 435 million. 720 thousand. 873 lv. 62 sq. is the amount of the grant applied for, which is approximately four times the planned resource to finance projects in these sectors. On a national scale, some of the most active cities to be Plovdiv, Sofia and Ruse, especially candidates who have declared implementation of activities, in Plovdiv are 102 in number, in Sofia The assessment of the submitted project proposals shall be carried out in the middle of the electronic system ISUN 2020, as the statutory deadline according to art. 19th para. 3 and 4 of the PMS No 107 is 120 days, but our intentions and intentions of the Evaluation Committee, which I welcome, are to complete the evaluation of the project proposals under 90 days. It is envisaged that the negotiation process with the approved candidates covered by the first deadline for application will take place in December 2015. The second deadline for the submission of the project proposals ended on 8 September 2015, with the number of project proposals received is 280. The applicants are in the high-tech and medium-tech industries sectors and the budget for financing these projects is 146 million. Six hundred and eighty £250. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You can continue with the answer eventually in the back. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I cannot help but express my satisfaction and welcome the efforts for increasing investment in the Northwestern region, which we know is currently experiencing the most serious difficulties, and together with improving infrastructure, improving the business climate in this direction, we are also thinking about developing small and medium-sized enterprises in the North West. I have only one supplementary question and it is: what other enterprises could apply within the framework of the announced first procedure for improving production capacity in small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we can in greater fuller detail tell what this is about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u148	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Lukarski's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, at present project proposals can submit candidates with a code of main economic activity in the intensive knowledge and services sectors, the third deadline is 9 November 2015. I am specificizing: companies in the field of publishing activity; the production of films and television shows; recording and publishing of music; radio and television activities; information technologies; research and development. The application method for this procedure remains unchanged with the completion of a web-based application form and its submission to the electronic system ISUN 2020, and applicants do not need to have a qualified electronic signature. To conclude, I just want to add to the basic question that I didn't have time for. The criterion and methodology for assessing the project proposals under this procedure are drawn up in a way that ensures maximum objectivity by introducing a simplified version of a business plan, the main task of which is to assist applicants at the stage of developing the project proposal precisely and clearly define the results they want to achieve through the given investment. With regard to the assessment, the benefits of the introduction of this new instrument also relate to the improvement of its objectivity, based on financial indicators, both historically and forecast, presented by the applicant's undertaking. In the event of non-compliance with the forecast data laid down by applicants, final adjustments may be imposed. For the final one more time I will use the case to announce that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to take advantage of the opportunities of the Operational Programme "Initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises" 2014 - 2020 which is also under the hat of the Ministry of Economy. The aim here will be to improve access to debt financing for small and medium-sized businesses in Bulgaria. This programme was approved by the Council of Ministers at the end of July. It has been sent to the European Commission and we are currently waiting for its response. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u150	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. With this backdrop your participation in parliamentary control today is over. Have a good day. We wish you a good day. We're moving on to the next questions. They belong to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. The first question is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the lease in agriculture. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u151	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, honourable colleagues, however little you have remained in this room! It is known that after 1989 many important changes were made in agriculture in Bulgaria. In 1996 and 1999 a Law on agricultural leases was passed, a law that gave space for the large accommodation in quotes, which we are enjoying now. Unfortunately, 50 companies in Bulgaria process more than 30 thousand. Dka land, which I think is an insane situation. There is a holding in Bulgaria that, along with dozen other connected companies, processes 2 million. Dka, of which 700,000. are property purchased, and a million and a half are rented lands. This holding, Madam Minister, has spread throughout Northern Bulgaria as an octopus and other companies in several areas, in dozens of municipalities and in settlements. The large rentation, I must say with great regret, is one of the reasons for depopulation of the Bulgarian villages, because the monopolies in agriculture are also present in force, and by influence they do not give in to the monopolies in other sectors of the economy and suppress small and medium-sized farms, all the more so that monocultural agriculture has been introduced. Our agriculture, I say with great sadness, has become a tenant. It covers 80% of the arable land. These are data from the 2010 census. In recent years, the municipalities have given away hundreds of thousands of acres of abandoned land. The academies called them tenants are more than one million small owners, but they are left at the mercy of destiny and fight by one accord with the strong tenants.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u152	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u153	My question to you, ma'am, is: when will a new Rendation Act be created in Bulgaria, which thousands of Bulgarian citizens are interested in? When will you submit to the National Assembly this Landing Act to agriculture because the large tenants have now established a monopoly from which not only small tenants but all hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens lose?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u154	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Minister Taneva, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Enchev, first I will begin directly with the answer to the question that you specifically asked about a new law or a change in the Landing Act. The theme of land relations is a very complex topic, with many problems, undoubtedly not only under the Rendation Act, but mostly under the basic Law on which agriculture operates "The law on ownership and use of agricultural land, which was adopted by the National Assembly on the occasion of the restoration of ownership of agricultural land. Whatever we are talking about right now, we must proceed from the fact that there is no act of the National Assembly or the Ministry that can reverse the processes in order to avoid the weaknesses we are currently witnessing. What we need to do from now on is to conduct policies that create land-use sustainability and ensure the interests of all countries involved in this process. We can't undo this way of recovery, we can't nationalize land, we can't administratively stimulate or conduct comas. In Bulgaria there is an active Constitution and the voluntary principle is the principle on which the coma can be done. There's a lot of problems. This is why the main goal of the political management programme in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food since the inauguration of our mandate is the preparation of new land legislation. This will include the codification of all laws, including the Agricultural Rending Act, in a legislative act, a code that governs the rights of owners, the types of ownership of agricultural land in Bulgaria and the way in which this land ownership will be managed. You've properly presented some of the problems. There are many others. There is a need for land relations to be governed by a completely new legislation that eliminates the problems at the moment and gives a prospect of sustainability in land relations, which is also an opportunity to invest long-term in the land used. I can say a little statistic in response to the statistics that you presented, up-to-date, but shortly after I ran out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u156	Thank you. Mr. Enchev, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u157	I am sure that this line of mine listens to it now hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens because they ask themselves the question: why, Minister, tenants in the same area pay different rents? Why is there no minimum and maximum threshold of the rent? How would you explain the huge difference in the amount of rent between the 2014 districts? Here are some outrageous numbers. In South Bulgaria: Pazardzhik for deka, Plovdiv 27 BGN for deka, Stara Zagora and Haskovo for deka, Burgas and Yambol s 32 BGN for deka, Sliven - BGN 33 for deca. For Northern Bulgaria: Montana s 37 BGN for deka, Vratsa and Targovishte. for deka, Pleven " BGN 43 for deka, Veliko Tarnovo? 43 BGN for deca. What can I say about Gabrovo 15 BGN? for a dea?! Blagoevgrad 13 BGN for deka, Sofia........................................................................................... For a deka! The scandal, Madam Minister, is that the large tenants receive a subsidy of BGN 30. For deka, and give 13 BGN. People's. And why do agricultural cooperatives pay higher rents? Other agricultural cooperatives pay higher rents than neighbouring tenants, which is observed throughout the country! Nobody's talking about nationalization, but why not talk about nationalization?! Can't four large sharks in agriculture, figuratively speaking, rule half of Northern Bulgaria?! You can't have 5.6 people in Dobrudja rule all of Dobrudja! That's insane. Moreover, there is a law in France that up to 5000 decares can be owned under lease or as property. Perhaps it is time, literally, to talk about nationalisation, as it is about protecting the interests of small tenants, small owners. And this will not contradict European practice!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u158	Thank you, Mr. Enchev, for the interesting line. Here you are for the coat, Minister Taneva. [[Comments between MPs from GERB and MP Velizar Enchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u159	That capitalism you brought him in!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u160	Mr. Enchev, I also mentioned in the first part of my reply that we cannot talk about nationalization. Bulgaria has chosen a different path of development, which excludes this tool as a way of deciding how our economy should function, regardless of what area it would be in. That's not gonna happen. Yeah, the amount of rents is different in different parts of the country. However, this is not regulated in any way by the State. We cannot determine the amount of the rent payment for agricultural land that is not a state land fund. The State determines the rent payments exclusively and only for agricultural land of 2 million. 179,000. 882 decares of State Land Fund, which are managed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. They are managed mainly by renting out short-term or long-term and in such a way that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, those users who wish, apply and rent this land at the price reached. The other relationships that determine the amount of rent payments are free and there is no way to influence them. About what the rents are like. It's normal for them to be different. They are functions of many other factors. In no case can it be summarised that cooperatives give higher rents and other users are lower. There is certainly a different practice in different areas. During the preparation of new land legislation, we are currently conducting an analysis of land use regimes in all other countries......................................................................................... At present, we do not have an established market economy regime under which member states of the European Union are developing to determine to private tenants what these sizes should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u161	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There's a second question for you. He is once again from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on trade in agricultural land. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u162	Madam Minister, the agricultural land in our country according to your Ministry's agricultural report from 2014 amounts to 52 million. Dka and represents nearly 50% of the country's territory. In implementation of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land since 1991, it was restored, although with many errors and omissions. However, even now the complaints to the national and European Ombudsman about the violation of the rights of the owners, all the more so that there is unfinished work, separate pieces are with many owners and all this creates exceptional obstacles to its use. The law on land ownership and use, Madam Minister, has been changed more than 60 times and has become a real jungle. Figuratively speaking, he only gets caught up in changes to the Road Traffic Act. Each MP who has requested in these 25 years has entered in his own way in these changes of the law. The current law does not allow both further crushing and unlimited increase in ownership, and the ownership of the land is not managed, monitored and controlled by the State. I do not agree with you here that the state must abdicate its obligations as we live in new market conditions. On this point, I would like to ask you the following question: when will the Agricultural Land Trade Act be put in order in Bulgaria? When do we start using the French example?! Moreover, there is a French report commissioned by the Bulgarian Ministry of Agriculture 7 years ago, in which a report of 27 recommendations in fourth place is the trade in land in Bulgaria, which needs to be radically changed. One of these recommendations states that first of all it is necessary to facilitate the accommodation of new farmers; second but not least to increase the areas of the too small farms; and third place to conduct a coma of the small abandoned areas with a view to their inclusion in the production process; and last but not least important place to control and regulate the land market and not to allow speculation. It is extremely important that you answer all these questions they are interested in, as I said in the first question, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Relations of MPs from GERB.]] The millions are for you, and the people are 2 leva each.!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u163	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Dear Minister Taneva, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev! In the previous reply, I said that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is preparing a whole new legislation codifying land legislation, bringing together and updating all the legal norms concerning land relations in nearly ten laws at the moment. With regard to the French report, I do not know whether we are talking about the same yes, there was such an analysis of French consultants in the 1990s before the adoption of this Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, on the basis of which agricultural land is restored within real borders. This report was ordered by the then Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, with which, however, power did not comply and restore ownership in a way in which the existing and changed over 60 times the Property Act was adopted. This French report proposed a completely different model in which agricultural property was to be restored in Bulgaria. Why this report, which was ordered by the then government, was not in line, of course, I cannot answer that question. Again, we can't take these trials back. The only thing we can do is improve the legislative framework and land relations in a way that guarantees everyone's rights and creates sustainability in land use so that we can rely on investment. As regards land use, however, I would like to say a few figures from the last direct payments campaign 2015 in which they are claimed for support and land useers who carry out this activity as income, as a business rather than as a hobby of 61 151 farmers. Those who process land over 100 000 acres are 7 beneficiaries who process 2,88% of the land used; beneficiaries between 50 and 100 000 acres that have claimed support are 13 who benefit from 2.4% of the land used; between 25 and 50 000 acres are 63 farmers who benefit from 5% of the agricultural land used; managers between 10 and 25 000 acres of land are 629 who process 24% of the agricultural land used; farmers between 5 000 and 10 000 acres are 1108 who process 21% of the agricultural land in Bulgaria; between 1000 and 5000 acres are 3768 farmers who process 23% of the agricultural land; up to 1000 acres are 55 563 farmers who work 20% of the agricultural land in Bulgaria. Or farmers, who work up to 5 000 acres of land in Bulgaria, process nearly 50% of the agricultural land in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u165	Thank you, Minister Taneva. Here's your line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u166	Minister Taneva, I understand from your reply that in Bulgaria there is a caste of large latifundists who own almost 48% of the arable land in Bulgaria. [[GERB's line.]] At the moment, I see that GERB is replicating me with irony. Let the Bulgarian viewers, the citizens of Bulgaria know what is the attitude of the representatives of GERB party to the questions I ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u167	Mr. Enchev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u168	Let me say the most important thing about this. Individual individuals, Madam Minister, and companies have bought tens of thousands and some hundreds of thousands of acres. Several funds a few hundred thousand each, and the partners of..................................................................................................... For information, however, the largest owner of land until 1946 in Bulgaria was Pencho, actor Penchev from Lyuljakovo, Dobrichko with 12 thousand acres of land. Now a very important additional question: will you take the initiative to buy out land and then provide it for the expansion of small farms or the creation of new small farms, because in France, which is not a communist country, the French do. Moreover, your Deputy Minister Georgi Kostov made a similar proposal for the forest areas, which I fully support. The big question is: when will we put a brake on these ambitions and predatory appetites of the large latifundists in Bulgaria who suffocate the small owners of land that you claim to hold about 50% of the arable land in Bulgaria, but they earn their bread with very black, hard labor? In fact, we should be helping them, not the big sharks in agriculture. As I told you, in France, the maximum amount of land owned is 5,000 acres. When will we reach France, Madame Minister? I hope that your response will also contain concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u169	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are for your coat, Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u170	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev! In the course of the debate that will be obtained after the presentation by us for a public discussion of the new land legislation, if there is consensus and it is admissible for adoption under the legislation on such a restriction, they could, of course, be adopted, but must certainly comply with the regulations in European law in order to be eligible. With regard to the possibility of acquisition of agricultural land, yes, for the forest territories this was allowed to save the Bulgarian forest, given that many restored forest areas within real borders of up to 2 hectares were cut to the goal and the state should assume its responsibility to preserve and restore the Bulgarian forest, provided that there is no market interest from economic operators in the country. This was made possible through the accumulated special forest investment fund in the system of state forest enterprises. With regard to this possibility for the State, the State and currently has a State Land Fund of just over 2 million acres which it manages. All the opportunities in this regard that can be made are in the size of this fund. Neither our country as such nor our budget can afford our country to participate in this market and from the buyer's side. Besides, interest in agricultural land as such is growing with each passing year. With regard to the support of medium-sized farmers, I can say the most responsible from the entry into the mandate of our government, all state funds for support for farmers are limited by an upper limit, and De minimis for the sector. All the instruments we have implemented, with national support, with the possibility of national solutions, have supported small and medium-sized businesses in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u171	I thank Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, for participating in today's parliamentary control. A question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov about the construction of an interconnector of a gas connection between Bulgaria and Romania will be answered by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. Mr. Dimitrov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Mrs. Petkova, honourable colleagues! You remember the year 2009 when gas supplies from Russia to the Balkans were cut off. This happened in the middle of the cold winter and Bulgaria suffered severe damage. Many people stayed in the cold, and the Bulgarian business suffered many billions of losses. Then it came to the general conclusion in Bulgaria that we urgently need to make interconnectors with neighbouring countries, because this can happen again. The plan was for these interconnectors to be built in the coming years. The interconnector gas link with Romania should be ready May 2013. We are now October 2015. Frankly, Madam Minister, my personal impression and opinion is that during the cabinet Oresharski was deliberately sabotaging the construction of these interconnectors. They didn't have any desire to do it, they were just faking activity. I ask this question to you in the hope that this will be changed in your mandate, even by the end of this year, the relationship with Romania will be built. I talked to a number of experts who gave me different versions. One of them said the pipe on the Danube was built, but it fell, the other said it was clogged, and the third said it was distorted. I do not know which of the three is true, but the important thing is that the project should be completed this winter, if there is a problem with gas supply, Bulgaria should be able to rely on alternatives. A clever man has an alternative, even more when he's been injured once.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u173	Your question, Mr. Dimitrov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u174	Should we allow what happened once in 2009 to happen again? That is my question to you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u175	Thank you. Minister Petkova, please answer the question of the MP Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you know that building Bulgaria's interconnection with our neighbouring countries is a major priority of the government in the sector. That is why we are very actively working on the construction of the interconnectors: the interconnector Greece We continue what has been done before by our colleagues. Things are quite complicated as development, as a process. I want to assure you that we are making every effort so that this project becomes a reality as quickly as possible, not only the Romanian interconnector, but also all other interconnections that are extremely important for energy security and diversification of sources and natural gas supply routes. Now specifically on the issue related to the Romanian interconnector. The project for the construction of the gas interconnection Bulgaria is implemented jointly by the gas transmission operators of the two countries "Bulgartransgaz" and the National Railway Company "Transgaz" respectively. A grant under the European Energy Recovery Programme of 8 million has been granted for the implementation of the project of the two companies. 929 thousand. Euros. By decision of the European Commission of 11 August 2015, we requested and the deadline for its completion was extended until 31 December 2016. As regards the ground part of the gas interconnection at present, gas measuring stations Ruse and Gyurgiu, as well as the land sections of the pipeline in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania, are built and accepted. Regarding the transition under the Danube River in 2012, on the basis of a signed Agreement for the conduct of a common procurement procedure under Romanian law by Consequently, this Executive Association does not carry out the necessary amount of geological research, which practically prevented it from continuing further development of the project, and has not fulfilled its respective commitments within the prescribed deadlines, with a significant delay in endangering the implementation of the project. As a result, the contract between Bulgartransgaz and the Executive Association was broken in the part about the construction of the pipelines. Consequently, penalties were imposed on the Executive Association and the same were used by the bank guarantee accordingly. On 8 June 2015, with a decision of the Executive Director of the Bulgartransgaz, after conducting a general tender procedure again, but this time under the order of the Bulgarian legislation, under the Public Procurement Act, for the construction of the main pipeline for contractor was appointed. An appropriate invitation to conclude the contract has been sent to the selected contractor within the statutory period. By letter dated 1 September 2015, the Commission informed Germany that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Mr. Stanilov is not able to sign a contract because he has not reached the signing of a contract with the delegate, which he had indicated in his tender for participation in the contract. A decision by the Executive Director of the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) of 16 September opened a new procurement contract with regard to the same subject matter. It is about building a major DM500 pipeline from the transition, including an underwater transition under the Danube. The deadline for receipt of tenders is 16 October 2015, within which time limit, if not available, respectively if there are tenders, if there are applicants who meet the requirements of the contracting authority, there is no appeal, we hope that by the beginning of December it will be completed. With regard to the issue of whether funds are provided for the compressor station in Romanian territory, I inform you that in the 10-year plan of the Transgas, we are officially informed about this, there is an investment envisaged for the construction of the compressor station in Romanian territory, which will enable us to provide a reverse flow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u177	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Mr. Dimitrov's right to reply, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u178	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! A strange coincidence of circumstances, which always leads to the same situation, to this relationship, which is not so complicated technically, not to be built and not to be ready. That's why I'm addressing you specifically, Madam Secretary. As soon as possible, clearly that they will be at the beginning of 2016, I am already setting the shortest possible deadline, once the procedure is by the end of December of this year, for this relationship to be established. Obviously, the compressor station will be on us as well. I never understood. If it's not on us, it's a better option, but without this compressor station, on the future connection to Romania, we'll only be able to export gas, not import. So building this compressor station is also very important. I wish as hard as it is to commit to a deadline, because you are the minister who I believe can make this gas connection, and it is very important that this happens now. Because, God forbid, if another government comes tomorrow that has a left side, then interconnectors don't build, Madam Minister, and it won't build. So we don't have time to waste. We have to build them now. You never know how long what's gonna last, that's life. That's why I'm asking you this question for a reason. At the beginning of 2016, we have to have this relationship and it has to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u179	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The right to the doppelganger, Mrs. Petkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I fully agree with you that it is extremely important that this first interconnector for Bulgaria be a fact as soon as possible. If everything with the contract goes the way provided for in the Law, there are no appeals to the procedure by the participants and is finalised somewhere at the beginning of December, to choose a corresponding contractor, I think that maybe in mid-2016 this interconnector should be a fact. So all that is necessary, I assure you, is done on our part. Our Romanian colleagues and I also have a good adequate dialogue and I hope that on their part we have full support and support, this interconnector will indeed be a fact. The compression station will not be at the expense of the Bulgarian side. Yes, it is included by the "Transgaz" in a financing scheme, as it is also bound by separate pipelines that the Romanian partners will build on their country's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u181	Thank you. With this the question to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, is exhausted. Thank you for her participation. Last question to the Minister of Tourism Ms. Nikolina Angelkova from the National Representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov on the policy of the Ministry of Tourism for management, development and promotion through tourist advertising of tourist sites of national importance on the territory of the Rhodopes. The people's representative Peter Slavov has the floor to develop his questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear colleagues! My question concerns the policy of the Ministry of Tourism in terms of management, development and promotion through tourist advertising and tourist sites in one of the most beautiful parts of Bulgaria. Dear Minister, there are a number of historical sites in the Rhodope Mountains, most of which are objects of national importance, such as Perperikon, the Cave of Diablo and the Trigrad Gorge, the Thracian Sanctuary of Tatul, the Wonderful Bridges and many more. They are all becoming more popular and visited by Bulgarian citizens as well as foreigners, which is proof of the huge potential of the historical and architectural tourism of the Rhodopes and Bulgarian municipalities there. It is no secret, however, that there is a shortage of funds to care for the management of many. In itself, the municipalities in which they are located could not finance these activities and it is very important that both the central government and European solidarity support be supported. For the success of this whole process, the leading role of the Ministry of Tourism and the policy of management, promotion and tourist advertising is logically crucial both in Bulgaria and abroad. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, please reply to the following question: what policy will the Ministry of Tourism develop with regard to tourist sites of national importance located on the territory of the Rhodopes, including their promotion and engagement of the respective municipalities in the process of their management and management, including the assignment of municipalities to some of their revenues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u183	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u184	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Slavov, the strategic goal of the Ministry of Tourism is to strengthen the competitiveness and effectiveness of Bulgaria's tourism sector through optimal use of available natural and anthropogenic resources in accordance with market requirements, consumer expectations for sustainable tourism development, including by diversification of the national tourism product. The Ministry of Tourism established an up-to-date database and a register of tourist attractions for all attractions in the country, including in the Rhodope region. The availability of up-to-date information on the location, ownership and socialization of tourist attractions will help to form and conduct a targeted policy to attract investment, improve access to sites, promote and increase the revenue from or in parallel to the tourist services provided by them by increasing the quality of their management. The creation of a Register of tourist attractions would contribute in particular to the development of tourism in the Rhodope region, where some of the tourist attractions are less developed or difficult to access. The Ministry of Tourism has no ownership over attractions. The majority of them are managed by the municipalities and, as the owner, they have the right to collect revenue from their activities. The information summarised by the Register of Tourist Attractions shows that the total number of included sites is 3 thousand. 300 pieces, the largest share of public property, state or municipal sites. In addition, according to the Tourism Act, the number of accommodations carried out on the territory of the municipality concerned is due a tourist tax under the conditions and under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the cost of which is carried out by the municipalities. With regard to the Rhodope region, I personally share the thesis on the need to deploy the large-scale potential for the development of a wide range of tourist products. To achieve this goal, we need a clear identification of our country as a tourist destination. The promotion of cultural and historical tourism through the specific cultural and historical destinations developed by us and the branding of the country by taking it as a leading segment of national tourism advertising, we consider a competitive advantage of a fundamental nature. Focused activities for presenting the country as an attractive tourist destination, its rich cultural and historical heritage and the opportunities for practicing cultural tourism in Bulgaria play the role of a necessary marketing identifier. Once built the recognizable image of the state in this direction will facilitate the parallel promotion of our potential for the development of mountain, balneo, spa, eco, rural, sports, adventure and gourmet tourism. The aim is to stimulate the development of specialized segments with high added value of the product. Some of the sites mentioned by you fall within the specifically developed cultural and historical destination of the Ministry of Tourism. The Thracian road in the Rhodope region. In parallel, integrated efforts are made to raise awareness of relatively more unknown sites. The policy of validating Bulgaria as a year-round tourist destination draws attention to stimulating domestic tourism in order to comprehensively overcome regional disproportions in its implementation. Within the campaign for promotion of the 50 known tourist sites in Bulgaria are promoted sites from the Rhodope region. Among them are the natural landmark of Kamenni Mushroom, village of Beli Plast, the megalithic cult near the village of Dolni Glavak, the locality of Kovan Kaiya....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For Bulgaria's positioning as a year-round tourist destination with a focus on cultural and historical tourism, we also contribute to our concept of tourist zoning. It is designed as a necessary tool for increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian tourism product and conducting a regionalised tourism policy. In line with the territorial peculiarity and specifics of the various parts of the country, it is a catalyst for effective regional marketing. The formed organisations for management of tourist areas, in this case municipalities from the region of Rhodope, will be beneficiaries of the Operational Programme. For the Ministry of Tourism, working in partnership with municipalities, the non-governmental and private sector is of paramount importance and through it we aim to enrich the range of offered tourism products on the basis of specific competitive potential and to improve the quality of the services offered. In this context, targeted measures are being taken to draw up Bulgaria's investment map in the field of tourism. Thus, in practice, we create an opportunity for targeted promotion of possible investment projects. The most interested and, at the same time, the most competent partner of ours in terms of making use of local development opportunities are precisely local authorities. In this sense, the Ministry needs feedback in order to avoid a centralised approach and achieve an optimal level of balance, following the established management principle for sustainable tourism development. I am convinced that through this approach we will introduce a working and sustainable mechanism that creates conditions for the recovery of the potential of the development of the regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u185	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. Mr. Slavov, come in for two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased to hear many things that give the Ministry of Tourism commitment and empathy, I hope also in your person, to this region. I suppose you've learned from the question that, in fact, the great pain of many municipalities, whose territory falls into such unique objects, do not have the opportunity to develop them, improve the infrastructure for access to them and so on, i.e. make them accessible to people. These are really objects with thousands of years of history, of exceptional historical value and, of course, of great potential for the development of the municipalities themselves and the people who live there, and at least as a means of livelihood and for this cultural and historical tourism that we are so talking about. What I have heard is that various operational programmes are envisaged that can be used for such projects is truly encouraging. I hope and perhaps there will be an opportunity for the Ministry of Tourism to be useful and to assist in this process the municipalities in question, which, I repeat, are often quite limited, especially the smaller ones, with regard to the capacity to prepare the necessary documentation themselves, to apply by programme, to provide co-financing and so on, so that they can develop these sites, even though they are sometimes of national importance, but still managed and are in the respective municipality, the interest of the state in the development of these sites is obvious. I hope and hope that the Ministry, and in your person, will, of course, possibly provide the necessary support and help especially the smaller municipalities that can develop this tourism and develop them well themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u187	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u188	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, I would like to assure you once again that all municipalities, especially the small ones, can rely on the support of the Ministry of Tourism. It is no accident that we have developed these cultural and historical destinations in order to focus on the cultural monuments and attractions found in them, so that once again we can assist municipalities in the development of their regions and turn them into tourist destinations. We are currently preparing a proposal and a joint pilot project under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" to help municipalities create tourist management organisations, which are actually beneficiaries of the new Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" where together we can draw up the steps to promote the region concerned, to impose regional brandings, a regional tourism product that can promote the whole region. I can assure you of our support. It is no coincidence that by the end of the year we have also reduced by 50% the fees for the participation of municipalities in exhibitions so as to encourage their activity to be able to present all tourist attractions and tourist products located in their areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u189	Thank you. About attitude? You're giving up. I thank Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, for participating in today's parliamentary control. The last in today's parliamentary control will answer Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, to a question by the National Representative Antoniyev Trenchev on the effectiveness of the measures the Ministry of Youth and Sport takes to increase physical activity among young people. Here you are, Mr. Trenchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The annual youth reports submitted to the National Assembly for 2014 specifically became clear disturbing data on the physical activity of young people. The only element that, according to the applied statistics, has increased is the number of sports classes, but with a more careful view, it becomes clear that the number of students in sports classes has increased by only 212 people in the academic year 2013/2014 compared to 2012/2013 and the difference in the academic year 2010/2011 is only 12 children. On the other hand, the country is not so significant in a percentage ratio of reducing the number of classes with freely elective or compulsory elective preparation and the number of municipal complexes and centers for working with children. This decline has, of course, affected the reduction in the total number of students. Against the backdrop of these comparable data, however, the information of a national representative survey on the topic "Establishment of the impact of youth policies on young people in the country" conducted in 2014 is extremely worrying at the request of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. It is eloquent enough that almost 34% of young people between the ages of 15 and 29 say that they last played sports more than a year ago, even more time, and another 14% more than six months ago. Without ignoring the global problem, the conclusion is that the percentage of physically completely inactive young people is huge, which raises the question of the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Ministry to promote physical activity. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: What are the measures taken to raise young people's awareness of the benefits of sports and obesity threats, and what are the results achieved? Secondly, what is the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Ministry to address this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u191	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. You're welcome, Minister Kralev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Trenchev! In order to improve the indicators quoted by you and raise the level of awareness of the benefits of sport in 2015, the Ministry of Youth and Sport helped, including financially, conduct a number of mass sports events, large-scale campaigns and events, such as World Challenge Day, World Walk Day, Campaign.Move Week, European Week of Physical Activity and Sports and other events. For a concrete example of the result I will give the recently completed initiative on the occasion of the European Sports Week and the campaign of the Ministry of Finance. At present, we note that the initiatives carried out across the country are over 160 under planned around 70. In Bulgaria we will take into account one of the biggest activities and the best results throughout the European Union. On 15 September this year, together with the Ministry of Health, we launched a whole new long-term government program for a healthy generation. The aim of the government project is to implement a policy for improving the health of children and young people in school. The three pillars on which the cabinet based this program are: building healthy eating habits, habits for motor culture and sports, implementing a massive modern information campaign in schools for prevention of alcohol, drugs and smoking. In 2015 the Ministry of Youth and Sport financed the Youth Activities Project under the 2011 National Youth Programme. One of the highlights of the program is the creation of youth information and consulting centers in all areas of the country. In these centers they provide free trainings, specialized consultations, information campaigns and other activities, including topics related to healthy lifestyles and prevention of factors threatening the health of young people. At the moment, 32 such centers are operating on the territory of the country. The Ministry of Youth and Sports is fully aware that it is necessary for young people to create conditions for regular sport practice. First of all, here is the work towards providing free access to sports activities for children and young people. The implementation of this task is implemented by developing, financing and coordinating programmes and projects for sport development for all and sport in leisure time. In 2015, we upgraded the programmes implemented so far with two more, which started for the first time this year, for which additional funds were provided. One of the important actions for me and my team in this direction was the proposal in the Law on preschool and school education for regulating the way the third period of physical education and sport was held. Parliament has adopted the new Law allowing coaches to teach a third period of physical education. The correction is completely unisoned with the most modern trend in Europe. The new Law on Sports, which raises the issue of sports bases in the country, changes in their attitude, modernization and improved access, is also being worked out during the year. Currently, the team of the Ministry is developing a new National Youth Programme for the period 2016 to 2020, where the promotion of a healthy lifestyle will be maintained as a top priority during the next programming period. In this regard, I would like to emphasise that the commitments regarding the subject of your question on the problem of young people's obesity have other responsible institutions and organisations. For its part, the Ministry of Youth and Sports initiated in March 2015 an idea of creating a more working and effective mechanism between the authorities in the country to unite efforts with regard to the challenges facing the youth age group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u193	Thank you, Minister Kralev. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, who are still in this Chamber, dear Minister! I am partially satisfied with your response, especially with regard to explanatory campaigns. What I miss about your response was that you hinted, but perhaps you had something more to add to the improvement of sports facilities.............. what steps have been taken and is there any clarity on how this will be financed, is there any possibility of funding with European funds? And the other thing that seems important to me, and what we specifically know, I know that it is possible, is for the qualification, re-qualification and further development of teachers' abilities through the Human Resources Operational Programme. Is that how it works? You also hinted at the coordinated actions between the different institutions, respectively the Ministry of Education. Here what I miss is about interaction with municipalities, because many of the sports bases are of the municipalities. Is there any idea to have more direct control that you can influence and do everything possible that you have staked in your strategy?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u195	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Here you are, Minister Kralev, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u196	Thank you. The case with sports bases and investments in improving and building new sports infrastructure is extremely complex. You know that public money is insufficient, not enough. Therefore, in order to be able to increase the possibility of investment, the Sports Act provides for changes that concern the creation of conditions for sports bases to be attractive for private sector investments. The reserve is right there. Part of the changes will be an increase in the period in which municipalities, the principal and the Ministry can lend sports bases. We know that over 90% of sports infrastructure is owned by municipalities, but at the moment mayors have the right to sign only 10-year contracts for use, making it impossible to realize a more serious investment. Sports facilities have an extremely slow return, i.e. in order to implement a large-scale project and attract private investors, this deadline must be clearly extended. We believe that this will give a new impetus to the development of sports infrastructure. As for our interaction with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, I said we are currently working on the government program for a healthy generation. The Ministry of Education and I jointly set up a group to study and report on the state of the sports base in schools. Currently we have data showing that from nearly 2,700 schools 300 have no gymnasiums at all, 433 have gyms suitable for physical education. From now on, the working group should give a very detailed analysis and proposal to the Council of Ministers to develop a programme to finance the construction of gyms and this will be a priority task in the work of the two ministries in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-02.u197	Thank you to Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sport, for participating in today's parliamentary control. That concludes parliamentary control for today. The next extraordinary session of the Forty-third National Assembly on the agenda voted today in plenary will take place on 6 October, Tuesday, at 11.00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
