ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of Parliament, I propose a shift in our program for this week. Now, as point one, to discuss and vote on a draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pensioners and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework. This point is in our program, but it's t. 12. To make sure it comes to a vote, I think it's right for it to be item one. We will hardly reach the end of the legislative part of the scheduled programme for this plenary week. Is there a reverse opinion? Please vote. Vote 150 MPs: for 149, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedure regarding the time limits between the first and second reading of the Bankruptcy Act. In view of the consultations that we have already been doing for two days for amendments to this Law, please propose to the Members of the National Assembly that the period between first and second reading under the Bankruptcy Act will expire on Monday, 16 March 2015, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the Bankruptcy Act to expire on 16 March 2015, Monday, 18:00. Vote 152 MPs: 146, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION TO EXPERIENCE THE FINANCIAL SITUATION OF PENSION-OSIBUTION COMPANIES AND MANAGED BY SUCH UNIVERSAL AND PROFESSIONAL PENSION FUNDS AND THE APPLICATION OF THE REGULATORY FOUNDATION. We're listening, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u4	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I propose that the Commission's pension funds will be extended until 30 April 2015. We created the Commission with a one-month working period. During the past three weeks, apart from regular meetings, we held extraordinary meetings each week. However, due to the large amount of information and documents to be collected and the entities to be heard, I am referring to the ministers of finance and labour and social policy, the Financial Supervision Commission, pension companies and pension funds, I ask for your decision to extend this period until 30 April. This is more than a month since we are also entering the period of April vacation. I assure you, on behalf of my fellow Members of the Commission, that we will conclude before this deadline. 30 April, but we need your decision to make sure that within this period we draw up a report which we will present to your attention. The draft decision is as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? extending the term of office of the Temporary Commission to examine the financial situation of pensioners and their managed universal and professional pension funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Prolonges the duration of the Temporary Commission for the Study of the Financial Status of Pension Insurance Companies and their Managing Universal and Professional Pension Funds and the implementation of the regulatory framework until 30 April 2015 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 151 MPs: 150, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. A few messages. To the former Minister of Interior Mr. Veselin Vuchkov there are two questions from MPs who have not been answered. These are the MPs Willi Lilkov and Krasimir Yankov. In accordance with the requirements of art. 92, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall have at least 48 hours to prepare an answer and respond in person. The new Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova will have this time to get acquainted with the questions, to update the answers according to her views and will be ready to respond at the next Parliamentary Control meeting. This is next Friday, 20 March 2015. This is the constant practice in cases of structural changes in the Council of Ministers. On 11 March 2015 the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Council of Ministers for 2014. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Dear Members of Parliament, the Council of Ministers has submitted to the National Assembly a Report on the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria for the time of the Latvian Presidency from 1 January this year until the end of June. There is an obligation, according to our Rules, to present this report in plenary by the Prime Minister. This is scheduled to happen on Wednesday on March 18th at 9:00 a.m. after we vote on the Programme. In relation to this report, however, the National Assembly has traditionally adopted ad hoc procedural rules which traditionally come down to a total of 10 minutes in a summary of the report by the Prime Minister; a possibility for questions by the parliamentary groups and Members of the European Parliament who participate in groups in the European Parliament; answers to the questions asked without voting. It will be provided to the parliamentary group guides The draft rules we will adopt immediately before starting the procedure on 18 March as the first item in our weekly programme. We continue on our current weekly program: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COLLECTION OF THE COLLECTIONS AND OTHER COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION ADVANTAGES. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 19 February 2015. There has been a report on the second vote by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. He will introduce us to Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u6	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, No 402-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2014, adopted at the first vote on 19 February 2015. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty.; DV, No. 77, 2011, amended, No. 21, 2012, p. 109 of 2013 and No. 27 from 2014(See Annex II to Regulation The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u7	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to support the name of the Import Act. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u8	By § 1, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u9	Statements? I won't. We vote § 1. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. A unanimous decision!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u10	Under Paragraph 2, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: "7." it appears from the management company's activity that the main part of the activity is carried out in the territory of another Member State and is licensed by the Commission in order to avoid stricter requirements for the management company in the other Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u12	By § 3, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 4, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 5, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u14	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording of the name:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the section "Concluding provisions." Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u16	Under Paragraph 6, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Social Security Code (inc., DV,...): 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Para 121. 6 is amended as follows: The Pension Insurance Company shall carry out its activities under this Code and in accordance with its statutes, with the rules on the organisation and operation of the supplementary pension fund managed by it and with the other internal acts adopted by the company in accordance with the requirements of that Code and its implementing acts. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. the investment policy of the universal, respectively of the occupational pension fund; (b) To be created t. 10: ..10. the rules laid down in art. 179c, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 175a: "Investigation policy" Art. 175a. (1) The pension insurance company shall adopt the investment policy of each fund it manages for additional compulsory pension insurance with a minimum content determined by the Vice-President of the Commission. (2) The company shall review the investment policy every three years as well as immediately after any material change in market conditions. (3) The investment policy shall be submitted to the Vice-President of the Commission within 7 days of its adoption, amend or supplement accordingly. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 176 of the 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 179c: Risk management Art. 179c. (1) The management body of the pension insurance company shall establish internal rules for the procedures for monitoring, measuring and managing the risk associated with the investment of an additional compulsory pension fund and shall submit them to the Vice-President of the Commission within 7 days of their validation, amendment or addition respectively. (2) The internal rules under para. 1 must ensure reliable risk management in accordance with the nature, scale and complexity of the fund's investments. (3) In risk management, the pension insurance company shall use adequate methods for its assessment and shall comply with the objectives set in the investment policy of the fund for additional compulsory pension insurance. (4) In the assessment of the risk associated with the investment of the fund for additional compulsory pension insurance and the taking of investment decisions, the pension insurance company shall not rely solely and mechanically on credit ratings issued by credit rating agencies under art. 3 (1) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies (OJ L 302/1 of 17 November 2009.). In assessing compliance with this requirement, the Vice-President of the Commission shall assess the use of credit rating references in the rules of para. 1 and investment policy. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: ) (a.k.a. 2 are created t. 10 and 11: ..10. the investment policy of the fund; 11. the internal rules for the procedures for monitoring, measuring and managing the risk associated with the investment of the fund established under art. 179c, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1 and in it the word "the funds' is replaced by "the funds'; (a) the creation of para. 2: The provisions of Chapter 14 shall apply to the investment of an additional voluntary pension fund under professional schemes, with the exception of Article 14. 175a, 178 and 180a. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344, para. 1, t. 2 shall be added to the other internal acts adopted by the company for supplementary social security as required by this Code and its implementing acts. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 345, para. 1 the words "written reasoned order' shall be replaced by "written decision' and the word "the' shall be replaced by "the' which shall be replaced by "the'. 10. Article 346 is amended as follows: "Appeal" Art. 346. (1) The decision under art. 345, para. 1 may be appealed by administrative order before the Commission and by judicial order before the Supreme Administrative Court. The appeal does not stop his execution. (2) The decision under art. 345, para. 2 may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. The appeal does not stop its execution. 11. In § 1a of the additional provisions, t is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. Directive 2013/14/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 amending Directive 2003/41/EC on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision, Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (SCCPs) and Directive 2011/61/EU on alternative investment fund managers with regard to the pre-reliance of credit ratings (OJ L 145/1 of 31 May 2013.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u17	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u18	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... (1) Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board, shall determine by decision the minimum content of the investment policy under art. 175a of the Social Security Code. (2) Within one month of the entry into force of the decision under para. 1, pension insurance companies shall submit to the Financial Supervision Commission the rules for risk monitoring, measurement and management procedures and the investment policies of the supplementary pension funds they manage.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u19	Statements? I won't. We vote § 7. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u21	We vote § 8. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted and the bill has been adopted in second vote. Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Moving on to: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER. With the report of the Draft at second reading I expect to be introduced to us by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, allow me before the report at second reading to make a proposal in relation to art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Ventsislav Spiridonov, Executive Director of the Registry Agency and Mr. Zlatozar Zlatev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u23	We vote. They voted 107 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u24	Thank you, Madam President. The Law on the Commercial Register is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Commercial Register. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u25	Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u26	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In The Agency shall ensure interoperability of the trade register within the framework of the system of interconnection of central, commercial and company registers, hereinafter referred to as the system of interconnection of registers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u27	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... § 2. Article 3 is replaced by ? Information exchange Art. 3a. (1) The Registry Agency shall immediately ensure that, through the system of interconnection of registers, the provision of free information on the initiation or termination of liquidation proceedings of a registered company, its bankruptcy and its deletion from the register is provided without delay. (2) The Registry Agency shall ensure that the information is received without delay through the system of interconnection of registers concerning the initiation or termination of liquidation, bankruptcy and the deletion of a foreign person who registered a branch under art. 17a of the Commercial Law. (3) The Registry Agency shall provide, through the European e-Justice Portal, up-to-date information on the provisions of the law of the Republic of Bulgaria under which third parties may refer to the circumstances entered and the acts declared in the Commercial Register. Madam President, here on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on a proposal for an editorial amendment by the Department of Reference, I propose in § 2, art. 3a, para. 3 the words "the provisions of the law" shall be replaced by "the law."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other editorial suggestions or additions? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for an editorial amendment, instead of the text, the provisions of law, in para. 3 of § 2, read the legislation. We vote on Mr. Kirilov's proposal. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are voting § 2 in its version on the Commission report, together with the editorial decision we have just adopted. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u31	We vote on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 by importer, supported by the Commission in its report. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. A new para is being created. 2: The manner in which the EIC is to be formed for connection to the European platform shall be determined by an implementing act of the European Commission. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The Agency shall establish a personal identification code called the PRIC, which shall be binding on other persons and entities for which it is provided by law that they are subject to entry into the trade repository. 4. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in it, the words "the single identification code" shall be replaced by "the identification code" under para. One and three. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it the abbreviation "EK" is replaced by the reference code under para. 4............................................................................................ 6. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it the abbreviation
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u33	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 in the version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u35	I put to the vote anbloc paragraphs with numbers 7, 8 and 9 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u36	Dear Madam President, on a proposal for a correction by the Department of Justice and in relation to art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow the creation of a new § 10 with the following content: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 5 words. The first paragraph is replaced by the following: ? 6??? 6???? I would like to explain that there is a speech to correct a reference which has not been made and which is the result of the renumbering that we made with the previous vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u37	Article 40 shall not be amended by the report. The vote just now § 9 is for changes in art. 34, para. Art. 2, Art. 2. 40 is not subject at all to editing under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u38	But the reference is forwarding.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u39	Do you have the whole text to read the text in art. What's 40 about? [[Reply of rapporteur Daniel Kirilov.]] I trust you, Mr. Kirilov, and I trust the referees. The question is to convince the plenary. [[BSP LB.]] There's no obstruction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u40	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u41	I shall put to the vote the proposal made to create § 10 on a proposal from the referees to comply with the correct reference in art. 40, para. 5... instead of par. 4 the reference is to para. 6. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u42	Thanks, guys. "Additional provision' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u43	We vote on the name of the division. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u44	Paragraph 10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2012/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2012 amending Council Directive 89/666/EEC and Directives 2005/56/EC and 2009/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the interconnection of central, commercial and company registers (OJ L 156/1 of 16 June 2012.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u45	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 11 in its version in § 10 of the Commission Report with the new numbering resulting from the additional paragraph adopted by us. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u46	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u47	Are there any suggestions by the name of the division? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the section. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u48	Paragraph 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. I request that technical editing be carried out here in § 11, which becomes § 12, of which 2 the words..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u49	You're proposing in point. 2 to drop the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The second sentence of 265n is created. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u50	Yes, that's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u51	Any other suggestions? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal in point. 2 of the paragraph under discussion to drop the words.............................................................................................. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] If it's for dropping out, we're all for dropping out. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. [[Applause and cheering: Bravo, bravo!]] The offer is accepted with applause. I shall put to the vote the full version of § 11 of the report, which shall become § 12, together with the newly adopted editorial amendment. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks, guys! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u53	Anblok, we vote both paragraphs. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u54	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on economic and financial relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners (GB, No. 1 from 2014), in art. 6 para. 2 is amended as follows: The following In the Trade Register, except for the circumstances under art. 4 shall also be entered: 1. details of the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime, including a company, national register number, legal form according to the national law, registered office and management address representing persons, their names, nationality and date of birth; 2. the identifying data on the actual owners of the natural persons, according to a notarized declaration, according to a model approved by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u55	Statements? I won't. We vote § 14, which becomes § 15. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. Here, Madam President, again on a proposal for an editorial amendment by the Department of Commerce and Industry, proposed in § 15, which became § 16, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u57	Very strange technique for a second reading report, Mr. Kirilov. [[Declarations between President Tsetska Tsacheva and rapporteur Danail Kirilov.]] Colleagues, this is required by the new paragraph, which is why the numbering of the paragraphs is replaced by one number. I put to the vote the proposal in § 15, which becomes § 16, instead of the words.. 13 and 14.......................... 14 and 15..................................................................... It is about numbering paragraphs in the way they go in the report. Even if we don't vote on it, in the Financial Texts, they are obliged to make the references correctly, but I rely on your support. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a corresponding renumbering of two paragraphs. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Another final vote on this Draft Law is the full version of § 15, which becomes § 16, together with the adopted change of numbering. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted and was adopted at second reading and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u58	Thank you, Madam President and honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u59	And thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] The next item is: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVE DISCLOSURES AND INDICATIONS. The Commission's First Voting Report on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u60	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 554-01-7, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Atanas Petrov Atanasov on 15 January 2015. At its meeting held on 18 February 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 554-01-7, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov and Atanas Petrov Atanasov on 15 January 2015. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Mr. Petar Vladislavov Slavov. The proposed bill aims to change the regime of payment and award of the costs of the parties, witnesses and remuneration of persons in administrative criminal proceedings by assigning their payment to the unsuccessful party under the administrative procedural code. People's representatives Hristian Mitev, Chavdar Georgiev and Petar Slavov took part in the discussion. Mr. Hristian Mitev voiced concerns about the award of a state charge for litigation, given the access to justice and therefore he believes that the current framework should be maintained. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev supported the proposed Bill in principle, but he noted that with the introduction of a state fee, access to justice would be thwarted. In support of the bill Mr. Slavov replicated that the fee for judicial appeal at the present time is 10 BGN. for individuals and the proposed changes, they would not be restricted to access to justice. In the course of the discussion, the MPs expressed their support for the proposed bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 7 votes for the Council, with no opposition to the European Parliament and 5 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 554-01-7, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Atanas Petrov Atanasov on 15 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u61	Thank you. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Peter Slavov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also thank the Legal Commission for the support it has given to these legislative proposals. I will now try to persuade those Members who voted with abstention to the Commission that it is still worth supporting this bill. It concerns an injustice that is not new, it has long been known, but its resolution has always been delayed on the grounds that there is a codification of this matter and that should lie there. However, for many years we have been waiting for the Code of Administrative Violations and Punishments, but it continues to be gone. So I suggest we solve this problem, and when the Code comes, even better. What's this about? It is about the costs that each party makes in administrative criminal cases and the inability to claim them subsequently and be awarded to it by the losing party. You know that in administrative matters under the Administrative Procedure Code this is the case and there the country can claim its expenses and the loser pays. Although the Administrative Procedure Code applies to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, it is rather not provided for such an option and the caselaw assumes that costs are not due and are not awarded, that is to say they remain for the party who made them, as the judges write. This, unfortunately, often becomes a problem for an applicant, as you know that there are practically appeals against administrative penal decrees issued by an authority. Given that the matter is often specialised and specific, the complainant in question, knowing that he will not be able to recover after that the costs given for a procedural representative, is often refused or not engaged. Unfortunately, even frankly unlawful criminal decrees remain in force. In that sense, I think things are reasonable. It is logical, as I think you will agree, that the party who has lost a case which has issued an unlawful criminal order to compensate in the form of at least paying its expenses to the party who has won it. Of course, there is another point here that there are actually unscrupulous citizens who often abuse or happen to abuse this matter and appeal blanquetically whatever they think of. I hope that there will be a disciplinary effect on them and that they will stop appealing whatever they think of, because then they will owe the state the cost of the pleasure of having led this trial. As you know, there is a law on the responsibility of the state and the municipalities for damage. Unfortunately, it is also not possible to claim costs under this order. The caselaw applies that, as it accepts, the voluntary engagement of a procedural defender in those cases and the element of voluntaryness cannot be applied in practice and the award of costs. So it is obvious that explicit regulation in the law is needed and its place is in ZHN. One of the main remarks that fellow Members who have abstained from the Commission have made was whether by introducing an appeal fee would not limit citizens' access to justice. As I and the Commission have pointed out, the fee is practically symbolic now. It is worth 10 leva. for a judicial appeal before the first instance, and for a cassation before the three-member formation it will be 5 BGN. So I think it's not that much of a burden to bother us, but between the two readings, if there are serious concerns and opinions, I'm willing to comment on that if it has to be dropped. But, again, I tell you, I think it's rather symbolic and can be left behind, as is practically a state secret for all the APC cases that are being conducted and applied to. And the last thing I'm going to say, I hope these changes, if accepted, will also help with a better trial. I suppose you know, colleagues, very difficult in administrative criminal cases can be admitted expertise, as they will in practice in the current order be at the expense of the budget of the judiciary, as the costs will not be awarded in the end. This, unfortunately, also affects the quality of the process, and I hope that when the relevant party that wants them imports the deposits established for the appointment of an expert in order to enable magistrates to be a little more open, to allow expertise in order to clarify all the circumstances surrounding a case. I hope, of course, that the judicial process itself will be speeded up, as a large part of the cases before the regional courts, and as a cassation authority and before the administrative courts, are precisely under this law.................................................................................... In practice, if the amount of blanquet complaints is reduced, this will undoubtedly affect the entire trial and will ease this part of the magistrates so that they can distribute more effectively in all their remaining work. Thank you. If there are any questions, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u63	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Debates are open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u64	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, as you have found out from the report of the honourable President of the Legal Commission, I have expressed my concerns to the Legal Committee regarding the state fee which is being introduced in challenging the administrative penal decrees. In the rest of the bill of colleague Slavov, of course, is correct. I have no objection to giving the costs of the cases of the losing party a principle that exists not only in the administrative but also in the civil process. With regard to the state fee, we have general considerations. Colleague Slavov, the problem is not only in size. After all, administrative criminal proceedings are not purely administrative proceedings. It is no accident that the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments refers to the Administrative Procedure Code and to the Criminal Procedure Code, as it is by nature a criminal procedure. In criminal proceedings we do not have public fees and should not, in my opinion, now we have yet to charge citizens and businesses such fees regardless of their size. I also say that as a purely basic consideration, if you will from a theoretical point of view. So if you are ready to reconsider your position on state fees, we will support this bill, as this is the only thing that concerns us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u65	Any lines to Mr. Mitev? I won't. Mr. Kirilov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is correct to clarify the following. In the debates in the Legal Committee, we supported in principle the bill submitted by colleague Petar Slavov. Very correct was the clarification made by colleague Mitev just now. In fact, I have taken the floor to report to your attention a position of the Ministry of Finance regarding the submitted bill, which believes that principled and substantial amendments are being proposed, which will significantly burden the state as costs. It is pointed out that administrative criminal proceedings are not symmetrical, it is not comparable to civil and general administrative proceedings, stating that, with regard to the costs of criminal proceedings, if the accused is justified, he has the legal possibility to protect under another rule of law. This is the Law of the State's liability for damages caused to the citizens. I took the floor to point out the considerations in this opinion. If the project is supported at first reading, I will also ask that we have enough time between first and second readings to be able to debate the two aspects of the proposed bill as fully as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u68	Thank you, Madam President. This is an interesting opinion of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Kirilov. It reminds me a little of their opinion, which they also gave on the DODK, when we commented on shifting the conviction of certain tax and administrative cases. Then again, they objected that this would almost lead to additional costs for the State and the Ministry. But I have a very simple answer, which is applicable there, and here and it is simply not to issue unlawful penal decrees. Then the costs that the State, respectively the Ministry of Finance, will be able to claim by the party concerned, which obviously, since the decree is not unlawful and the legality of the other party cannot win the case and will owe costs. I think the problem is practically solved. So that's my recommendation to the Ministry just not to issue illegal penal decrees. Then I don't think there's gonna be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov? You won't use it. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? No. The debate is closed. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on administrative violations and penalties submitted by Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Atanasov. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 49, none, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Slavov. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u70	I'm asking for a re-vote. Madam President, I see that a lot of colleagues are still entering and have not been able to vote. As we usually say, this is a bill supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u71	I do not see any movement in plenary that will lead to an increase in the number of MPs voted. I put the bill to amend and supplement the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments at first reading. They voted 98 MPs: 58, against 1, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. On behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in. [[Replication of the MP Slavcho Atanasov away from the microphones: Mrs. Tsacheva, it was important to pass.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u72	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Our group is astonished because this proposal of colleague Slavov greatly eased the administrative process and at the same time helped Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u73	Mr. Atanasov, on behalf of parliamentary groups, statements can be made, but on points, off the agenda. So I think of it as a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u74	I understand, Madam President. I am surprised why part of GERB's group has been blaming this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u75	Moving on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CZECH REPUBLIC FOR JOINT CONTROL TO BE CONFIRMED TO THE BORDER-PROPOSITION POSTS OF THE REPRESENTATION. Report from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the border crossing point of Macaza, No 502-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2015. At its meeting held on 25 February 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the border crossing point of Macaza "Nymphoia," No 502-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Momchil Panchev An agreement was signed in 2008 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic for joint control when crossing the border, which is ratified and is promulgated in the Official Journal. The Agreement shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With the same Agreement, the two Parties shall initiate joint border control at the crossing of the tower of Promahon, agreeing to carry out the ingoing and outgoing controls at the border crossing of the Greek territory. In accordance with art. 1, para. 6 of the Agreement, the Contracting Parties may agree by exchanging written notifications to extend the application of the Agreement to other border crossing points. In 1995 Bulgaria and Greece concluded an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic to open three new border crossing points and road links between the two countries. On 18 June 2014, the Council of Ministers took a decision approving the draft Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on joint control when crossing the border of the border crossing point of Macaza as the basis for negotiations and for the conclusion of the Agreement by exchanging verbal notes. On this basis, the Agreement was concluded in July 2014 by exchanging verbal notes. By the Agreement, the Contracting Parties agree to extend the application of the 2008 Agreement to the Macasa border crossing point. Ingoing and outgoing controls are planned to be carried out at the border crossing point of Makaza on Bulgarian territory. As a result of the discussion, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee adopted the following opinion: Offers to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the border checkpoint of Macaza..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The opinion of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Debates are open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the border control post of Makaza......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Atanasov, a proposal for a second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u78	Madam President, I propose that you put to the second vote a bill ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the Macaza border crossing, No 502-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u79	I put to the vote the proposal in a plenary session to hold the two readings, first and second votes respectively, on this ratification bill. We vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please report for second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u80	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the Macazar border crossing point A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on Joint Control to be carried out at the Macasa border crossing point, concluded by exchanging notes on 17 July 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u81	Statements? I won't. I put to the second vote the reported Second Reading Bill. Voting mode. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted, and with this, the ratification bill has been voted on at second reading. Honourable Members, in the few more than five minutes left, it is not serious to start the next item, which is: First vote on bills, several in number, to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code, which is why we will now announce a break until 11.00, when we continue with parliamentary control, and the first reading of the PPC Bills will remain for next plenary week. Holiday till 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u82	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 6 to 12 March 2015 from: - MPs Iskren Veselinov and Krasimir Karakachanov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the implementation of the declared savings policy in state energy companies. The reply should be made in writing by 20 March 2015; - National Representative Magdalena Tasheva of Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues, concerning a request from the European Commission through one of the Directorates of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Financial Aid amounting to EUR 8402845.89 for emergency measures in order to better care for illegal immigrants invading the green Bulgarian-Turkish border. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 March 2015; - National Representative Rumen Gechev of Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on a signed non-reciprocal bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States to improve compliance with international tax legislation and implementation of FATCA. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 March 2015; - National Representative Ivan Ivanov to Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, on the regulations governing the change of use of unusable school buildings. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 March 2015. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Bozhinov and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Petar Bekov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Ilian Todorov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev. Here you go, mate. Written answers from: - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Gechev; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Metodi Andreyev and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Georgi Bojinov, Dobrin Danev and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Valentin Vassilev. Before we move on to the questions asked to Deputy Prime Minister Mr Kalfin, a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mrs. Mariana Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today Minister Lilyana Pavlova should answer my question to her: why is the new 265th municipality of Sarnitsa, Pazardzhik district, absent from the Government's Programme for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018, after this municipality was established by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 285 of 9 May 2014 and Decree of the President of July 2014? Minister Pavlova will answer many questions today, but he who refers to the municipality of Sarnitsa and its place in the policy of the Council of Ministers, part of which his own and her own competence, has been postponed, and on the day after tomorrow 15 March 2015, according to Decree No 3 of 8 January 2015, the President's residents of Sarnitsa, Pobbit Stone and Medenni Polyani will elect their new first mayor of their new municipality. I have no reasonable explanation why Minister Pavlova is delaying the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u84	Mrs. Georgieva, let us not participate in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u85	I don't understand why today she's running away from the answer.! Why should this answer be postponed? Maybe because you have to run away from responsibility two days before the vote? The residents of the new municipality deserved to hear today precisely the answer given in accordance with the Rules of the National Assembly, Madam President. Especially since last Friday Lilyana Pavlova met them in Sarnitsa. Because they have a choice on Sunday, we all owe it to their informed choice. I will be patient to hear the response of Minister Pavlova, but as a MP from the DPS Parliamentary Group of 13. A multi-mandated electoral region. Pazardzhik, I fulfill my responsibility to all residents of the three settlements to tell them the information from the parliamentary tribune. Today, on the eve of the elections for the mayor of the municipality and for municipal councilors, this tribune is usually the highest in the country and it is heard by the voters and citizens of Bulgaria. The residents of Sarnitsa, Pobbit Stone and Medden Plains should know that their newly established 265th municipality is absent from the priorities, objectives and measures in the government's program for stable... [[The speaker speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u86	Mrs. Georgieva, I'm taking your word for it. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Statements may be made on topics that are off the agenda on behalf of parliamentary groups. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] There is no way in parliamentary control time [[the MP continues to speak with microphones off]] , under the name of such a statement from a parliamentary group to talk about the things that were mentioned. [[National Representative Mariana Georgieva continues to speak with microphones off.]] I have given you the floor for a statement on behalf of a group only for topics that are off the agenda. [[Noise and lines from DPS. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Kazak, I hope that you will be able to convince Mrs. Georgieva that during the time for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group she cannot speak on topics that are on the agenda. [[The speaker is always talking with microphones off.]] Mrs. Georgieva, I will sanction you and release you from the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from DPS. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mrs. Georgieva, this is the last time I'll take your word for it. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] I'll take your word for it, Mrs. Georgieva. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]] Due to failure to comply with the provisions of the House, I adjourn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u87	You can't sanction me, Madam President... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u88	I'm adjourned for 10 minutes. The meeting is adjourned! Let's get the cameras turned off. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Claps by GERB and by DPS.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u89	The hearing is ongoing. Mr. Kazak, in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u90	Madam President of the National Assembly, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I strongly protest against the flagrant violation of the Parliamentary Rules, which was carried out by you a short time ago, taking away the possibility and the sovereign right to a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group attached to the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly and unlimited with no condition except on the agenda of today's meeting. The statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which was to be made by our colleague, Professor. Mariana Georgieva, it had nothing to do with today's National Assembly agenda, and you had no right to interrupt her, you had no right to take her word away. This is a precedent in parliamentary practice, which we strongly protest against and will bring to the National Assembly's Ethics Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u91	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. In the manner of holding Mr. Angelov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u92	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, I call you clearly with a view to approaching the elections that are coming autumn, and now those who are in Sarnitsa, when there is a live broadcast on National Television and National Radio, and when Members of Parliament, as in the case of DPS, are going to lead an election campaign, to call on National Television and National Radio to stop the direct broadcast, because this is a violation of the election campaign. Therefore, I call on you not to allow such MPs to campaign from the National Assembly's stand. It is clear what its target DPS. It is clear who wants to electrify ethnic peace in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Private applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u93	To the two colleagues who made procedures in the manner of conduct. Each parliamentary group shall have the right to make statements on behalf of a parliamentary group during parliamentary control and in a direct broadcasting regime, while respecting the provisions of the Rules that this should be on matters outside the agenda of the plenary. The statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was requested by Prof. Mariana Georgieva was allowed to take place. The transcript is clearly written, and you have all heard that it was started by questioning a question legally under our rules, rather by delaying it by 7 days, something about which, at the end of yesterday's plenary session, I have correctly informed all Members of the National Assembly. Until now, the representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has spoken to him on a subject which is in the particular point that is currently under way, namely parliamentary control, it is unacceptable on such a matter to request a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. I couldn't know about this, nor would I, nor any of the other Members who are in charge of the plenary sitting today, how this statement will develop. On several occasions I paid attention to Mrs. Georgieva to stop Speculating in relation to Minister Pavlova that you see, in view of the election campaign and the situation in Sarnitsa she has postponed this issue. I declare that the postponement is only on the basis of the right granted to it in the light of the rules in our Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u94	There's no item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u95	We move on to the first question to Mr. Kalfin, who will be asked by Dimitar Gechev and Svetlana Naydenova about possible abuse of European funds in the Center for Family Type Accommodation in Velingrad. Here you go, Mr. Gechev. [[The MPs of the DPS's SG are leaving the House. Noise and lines in PF]] . Colleagues, please no tossing!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I received a signal from employees working at the Family Type Accommodation Centre of Velingrad for abuse of the use of European funds under the project "Chance for every child." The project is managed by the municipality. Some of the violations that I have addressed are a significant increase in the means of transporting children, of buying firewood, consumables, children's clothing, working clothing for employees. At the same time, some employees working at the Centre have not received their remuneration for about six months. In this regard, I would like to ask you: has the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy carried out a check at the Family Type Accommodation Centre in Velingrad? Are there any violations detected, and if any, who are the perpetrators and what measures will be taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u97	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, the project of which you mentioned is one of the 79 common municipal projects within Component 2................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In these projects, there is practically a policy that I think has been waiting for a long time for society. It is a deinstitutionalization of these large homes for children and provides much better living conditions for children in family-type centres. The project is designed so that these centres are created and started functioning with European funds, but they are managed by municipalities. The idea is then to continue funding as delegated activities through municipalities. It is therefore the municipalities who are responsible for the overall organisation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is concerned with establishing standards, policies that need to be followed in these centres and, of course, while they are financed by European funds, control over these European funds. Specifically about the case that gained a lot of media popularity. The value of the entire project is 330 thousand. 546 BGN, of which there is a transferred advance payment of 66 thousand. BGN 109. The project activities must be completed at the end of July 2015. The project is not finished yet, after which it will pass as funding from the state budget. All necessary checks were carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy at the Centre for Accommodation. The checks were carried out by the Managing Authority, by the Contracting Authority under the Operational Programme..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No abuse of European funds has been detected. Different expenditures related to the transport of children and some other costs have been established, but in any case it is very clear that they will not be identified as European expenditure and cannot be recognised as European expenditure, which means that they will be borne by the municipality budget. From now on, the budget of the municipality is not in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which can control how it spends them. The principles of economy and efficiency in spending are also not respected in individual cases. However, abuse of European funds cannot be established. Part of the costs incurred when incurred by the municipality for verification will simply not be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. A line? You're not gonna use a line. We move on to Mrs. Maya Manolova's question about the Easter benefits of single pensioners. We're listening, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u100	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Mr. Kalfin! The Easter supplements for the pensioners deeply excited the people of the third age. Although the modest amount of 40 leva. for people who live below the poverty line, these 40 leva. proved to be a very important opportunity in a more normal way to welcome the upcoming Easter holidays. I congratulate the government from this tribune for making this gesture to the people who are in the most difficult situation and need support from the Bulgarian state. However, the emotions surrounding this gesture of power are not uniform, and this is always in cases where supplements are not given to all pensioners, but only to a certain part of them. Those who slightly exceed the ceiling of 284 leva receive nothing and, of course, are disappointed. However, the worst part of the government's decision is the lonely pensioners who have wronged those who have left them alone in the final phase of their lives to deal with misery, with deprivation, with bills, with a difficult environment in the context of an economic crisis. These pensioners, although receiving pensions below BGN 286, with the income allowances, exceed the ceiling that defined the government and ultimately receive nothing. Thus they face the following situation: once life hit them, leaving them alone without a husband to cope through the difficult third age, the second time, they were hit by the government of the quadruple coalition, depriving them of these Easter allowances. I am not saying that you did this on purpose, but since this problem is becoming clear to you and the government, my question is: will you take action to change the ministerial decree so that this injustice can be corrected?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u101	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, thank you for your evaluation for providing funds for Easter supplements to pensions. I want to tell you that my sincere desire is to increase pensions, not to rely on supplements that people with low retirement income rely on every year and not every year. In any case, in so far as those who pay for Christmas or Easter are not part of the pension payment, the pension calculations, they are practically additional payments that have the nature of social payments. There are two approaches in which there is indeed a different discussion, there has been practice in using both approaches. Either the resources allocated to the over-execution of the budget go to people with the lowest incomes, or they are allocated to everyone. By the way, the previous government of Mr. Oresharski has applied both methods, such as Easter supplements in 2014. The people with up to 150 leva. they received 50 leva and 40 leva each. have received those who have an income of between 150 and 250 BGN. All with over 250 leva. they received 20 leva each. Easter supplement. That was the decision for the last Easter. We are now adopting an approach that gives and provides pension supplements to nearly 60% of pensioners, and these are the people who have the lowest incomes -- they are about 200,000 more than those they received for Christmas, including during Mr. Oresharski's government. These are the people who receive the lowest pensions and their pensions as a total income are below BGN 286. You are asking the question of those who receive the so-called widowly supplements....or a quarter of the pension of the deceased husband or wife. I wouldn't say these people won't get extra supplements. Those with up to BGN 286 are a total of 282 thousand. 530 people, which means 282 thousand. 530 people who receive widow supplements will receive an additional addition to Easter pensions. The pension received for a deceased spouse is an addition to the personal pension of each pensioner, so it is accounted for in the total cost. That's the rule, apropo, and Mr. Oresharski's government when it paid up to BGN 286, but up to BGN 251. in December 2013, so this is not a new practice. This practice has always been used so far. You, if you want a change, maybe you should have wanted it before then or now suddenly you see some new circumstances. Again, I say 60% of the pensioners, including 282 thousand. 530 people who receive widow supplements will receive their allowance for Easter pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. The line, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u104	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kalfin, of course we also objected to the decision of the government of Plamen Oresharski during the Christmas of 2013, so the Easter allowances were given to all pensioners. In the end, the amount for the state is the same 50 million were worth, 50 leva, only to the poorest pensioners in December 2013. Fifty-eight million leva cost the differentiated distribution of Easter allowances in 2013. I deliberately do not put the ribbon back and the tone I use from the parliamentary tribune today is more than humble. That's because I really want you to hear what I'm saying and make sure that the ministerial decree is changed. I give you the following example that retired widows have set for me. A pensioner widow who receives a pension of 210 BGN because of the widow's allowance receives 295 BGN. and does not receive the Easter allowances in question. Her neighbor, also a pensioner, who has a pension of 250 BGN, as her husband is alive, receives 500 BGN, but she is under 286 BGN. a ceiling, receives a widow's allowance. You can't imagine how important these 40 leva are to the Bulgarian pensioners.! This is obviously unfair, because if the husband of the retired widow were alive, he would have received his 300 leva. a pension, in addition, would have received the Easter allowances in question. So, firstly, life is unfair to pensioners who are without husbands and, secondly, the government is unfair by depriving them of the Easter allowances in question. I will not stop here and I will insist to the finance minister, if necessary to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, this issue should be resolved because it is extremely important for the pensioners who live alone. Here, if I have to say a few words about the previous government, of which you were part, with Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev then the benefits were given to all pensioners. Even in 2007, you must remember, they received 150 leva. It's a serious amount of money. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I congratulated your government, too, in times of crisis, to pay attention to the poorest Bulgarian citizens. I expect you to really take action to change this minister's commitment to it is not fair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u105	A hole, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Manolova, justice in this case disappears at the moment when we are not talking about normal pension payments, but about additional social payments and therefore they go to people with the lowest incomes. From the example that you gave, for the two neighbours who have engaged you one gets 295 BGN. And she's alone, and the other one with her husband gets £750, which means £ 370. To a person. Does this mean that if there is a third neighbour who receives 295 BGN without receiving an additional widowly pension, she would also not receive an additional 40 BGN.? It's social help. It's not a pension, it's not a pension. Again, I would like to increase all pensions. That's what happened. By the way, in 2007, 2008 the state was in another financial situation, but to the extent that it is given a supplement, it is given to people who receive the lowest income per person. That's the principle. As soon as we start to deviate from this principle and look for different deviations, then the greatest injustice appears. This is the opportunity and I hope that there will be much more opportunities in the future, including an increase in pensions. This is the opportunity! Should we give them to everyone, as it was on Easter last year? People over 250 leva. pension income gets 20 leva. Excuse me, but you'd better give more to those with lower incomes. That's it, again, once or twice a year, not a monthly pension. Let's help the people who need it the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions addressed to Minister Moskov, Minister of Health. He will answer the first question asked by Mr. Stanislav Stanilov about the legal protection of doctors against people who do not respect their dignity and professionalism. We're listening, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 28 June 2013 a Law was adopted to supplement the Penal Code incriminating attacks on medical persons, teachers and educators. As of this moment, they enjoy a higher degree of protection in the event of an attack and are aligned with judges, prosecutors and police officers. This kind of protection provides stricter penalties for attackers. The change was proposed in several bills, with the MPs from the "Attack" being the authors of one, actively defending it in plenary and even offering even higher sanctions. The law was reached after another team of emergency services was injured in Sofia in the performance of their duties. Events recently show that the law does not apply with all its power, especially when attackers come from the gypsy community. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: do you have any information on how many of the known assailants have been convicted within the meaning of this law and do you believe it applies with all its force against these criminals? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u109	Thank you. Mr. Minister Moskov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, I have had the opportunity to answer a similar question from a fellow Member of the National Assembly, but anyway in relation to the question you have asked. According to the information of the Emergency Medical Centers, the incidents with aggression over medical teams of Emergency Aid for 2013 are 145 pieces, for 2014. .. 225 pcs. Medical professionals who have been injured have not in all cases filed complaints with the police department. It's a fact. Regardless of the change in the Criminal Code entered into force on 9 July 2013, there has been an increase in the incidents in the last year. From the moment of taking the change in art. 131, para. 2 of the Penal Code, which criminalizes the causing of bodily harm to medical professionals in the course of or on the occasion of the performance of his duties, the sentences are as follows: four effective sentences - one fine of 1000 BGN.; one imprisonment for six months; one imprisonment for one year; one imprisonment for three months; one suspended sentence for three years with a probationary term of four years. Three pre-trial proceedings and one case ended without a conviction due to lack of sufficient evidence. Outside of this dry statistic, I would say the following: at the moment, indeed, since this was an obvious problem assessed by the whole society and it does not concern the specific emergency assistance at a given place, and the possibility at all Emergency assistance to provide what has been created, I have always considered to be part of the national security of the state, there is a very strict horizontal and vertical coordination between the emergency assistance teams, the instructors of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior, this once. Coordination is at a serious level. Accidents will always be, but the question really is then the law quickly and with a clear consequence to enter into its duties. Perhaps at the beginning of next week we will sign an agreement on joint actions with Mr. Tsatsarov, on the basis of which at the horizontal level of the district prosecutors, emergency services and police to take very fast and adequate action against the perpetrators of such attacks. On the part of the Prosecutor's Office, in our conversation on this occasion, a serious commitment was made in this direction to make it really clear that the state, with all its rigour, would punish such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u111	Thank you. Mr. Stanilov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u112	Dear Minister, I am far from thinking of complimenting you, but you were the first Minister of Health in 25 years who raised the question with his real names, and that is why, of course, you were accused of xenophobia and any other phobias, which, in my opinion, is not the most important. The most important thing in your response was that you do not give up all of this and the data you submitted are just ridiculous... somewhere over 200 crimes and against them separate units convicted. It is obvious that the prosecution, as well as the court, treats the old way of political correctness, the old principle of political correctness towards Gypsy crime. I am glad that the terminology our party used in the Fortyth National Assembly that there is Gypsy crime is no longer qualified by media and colleagues, including you, as ethnically identifiable crime. It is just a socially identifiable crime, as the gypsy community, Mr. Minister, I am sorry that I could not find a share of my book in which there is a whole studio for gypsy crime, to give it to you, perhaps out of curiosity you will read it, but I will find it and send it to you. They are not a stationary population, almost 85% of them are social nomads. You, as a good doctor and as an educated man in this direction, know very well the principles and laws of biological genetics. But there's something else called social genetics. The Gypsy community will not be changed, adapted and integrated with measures that are now offered in society, such as education, such as any other measures and actions of foundations, etc., etc. In 2005, I had quoted from this tribune statistics, which said that for about 15 years from external and internal sources for the gypsy community were used about 1 billion. The dollar on different roads taken and from them there was no result. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. There has been no result so far and from the so-called Decade of Gypsy Integration in the Bulgarian community.................................... again 1 billion. As soon as we accepted this in the National Assembly, I said from this tribune that there wouldn't be any. Another must be politics. Perhaps now these slightly more stringent measures are the beginning of such a policy. I hope with not too much confidence that things will start to change and start to apply...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u113	Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u114	...sorry for the expression, the principle of carrot and the stick that is normal for this case, for this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u116	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u117	Please, please! Because you've expanded the subject, much more than the problems that concern only the attacks on medics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u118	Mr. Chairman, when do I say this subject when this question is not put here?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u119	It can be put for a special discussion. Would you like a double, Mr. Moskov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u120	Mr. Chairman, when I get out here, they start you're xenophobic, you're xenophobic, you're like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u121	No, no! No one blames you. You had the opportunity to make your point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, the strictness of the law, the adequacy of the actions of both the police and the prosecution, must and will be exercised, I assure you, against any Bulgarian citizen who allows himself not to be conscientious to the law, whether he is a Gypsy, a Bulgarian, an Egyptian or any other. It is a separate issue that there are social reasons in whole groups of society, such as gypsy, that these incidents are more. I've had the opportunity to say so many times, and I'm not worried about the story of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for xenophobia, because the battle we've waged is not about ethnicity or religion. It is about restoring justice in society. Justice requires that we all have the same rights, but also the same obligations. That's the point. This is the goal, and if you will, this is also the philosophy of our political power in this government. Those who finance social systems, those who finance health, education and security systems must have the same rights, and all others must have the same obligations. I mean, here the battle is for justice. Let me just say in this regard that the root, the sting of the ability of someone to wave an ethnic map or whatever in this regard, is rooted in the conscious holding of entire groups of society outside the state and outside civilization. Let's say that in this regard we are preparing a project together with the Swiss Government, as in five of those places that I call the ghettos of Gypsy, while other people call the communities of the Anomaly, there will be health services in the center of these places. The American model of action towards the ghetto is that at the center of the ghetto to have a police and health service. That's when the change begins, then the country's return to these places begins. When people see that there is a state that makes sure that they are returned within society and the law, it will not be possible for people to play with the story............... with the story...... religion.......................................................... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u123	Thank you. The next question to you is from the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov concerning violations of the rules on the marketing of medicinal products. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u124	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My question is about drug trade violations. According to the current regulation in the field of medicinal products in human medicine, wholesalers can only supply medicinal products from manufacturers, importers or other retailers, as art. 207, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In turn, wholesalers can only supply comprehensively the entities provided for in the law other wholesalers, pharmacies, including hospital pharmacies, drugstores, and in case of certain hypotheses and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, hospital care facilities and so on. The explicit provisions also provide for where retail trade in medicinal products may take place, i.e. delivery to the final customer. Visible by these rules, the Law regulates a very clear line of delivery of medicinal products: manufacturer, wholesaler, retailer, end customer. The importance of this chain is to ensure the quality and safety of medicinal products and to protect the interests of patients. Therefore, the supply line is one-way and cannot be changed by arguments of economic appropriateness. With regard to alerts for infringements of the legal rules governing the supply of medicinal products, please provide me with an answer to the following questions: What information do you have from the control authorities for the chain of supply of medicinal products, namely for the sale of medicinal products from pharmacies, hospital pharmacies, to retailers? What actions have the control authorities taken to punish such violations? What measures will you take to strengthen control over the supply chain of medicinal products with a view to ensuring patient safety and public interest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Dr. Shishkov! Regarding your letter providing us with the question of infringements, I say the following. Failure to comply with the order of supply and trade in its sequence between the entities in the chain manufacturer, importer, distributor, wholesaler, open or hospital pharmacy and user in all its forms is an undeniable violation of the legal order in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and a number of regulations. Indirect control of medicinal products shall be carried out by the Executive Agency for Medicines, Regional Health Inspections and the National Council for Prices and Reimbursement. No such violations have been reported directly by interested parties or other bodies and institutions, including the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, to the Drug Executive Agency. The Drug Executive Agency has not established documented sales from pharmacies to a wholesaler. That infringement shall be objectified and proved by means of primary accounting documents. The nature of the infringement requires that for its establishment as part of the general control of the pharmaceutical order guaranteeing the quality, efficacy and safety of medicinal products, comprehensive monitoring of the income-cost documents, invoices and cash bonds of the site concerned be carried out, stock detection and cross-checking of another entity, party to the transaction. On the other hand, the provisions of the regulation oblige retailers and retailers to store and provide for control purposes only information or copies of invoices for purchased medicinal products which are not official or primary accounting documents. In order to carry out effective controls, these actions, unlike planned pharmaceutical checks, are referred to the large number of retailers and retailers of medicinal products and require targeted inspections for specific sites or products for which the presence of prior alerts is essential. There is also no documented information on sales from hospital pharmacies to wholesalers. The hospital pharmacy is not an independent legal entity but a structural unit in a hospital, the latter receiving and issuing relevant invoices for deliveries and sales. The planned measures to effectively counter illegal practices in the supply chain of medicinal products are aimed at the temporary organisation of a system of interaction and optimization of control between the health authorities and the health care system, the Drug Executive Agency, the Regional Health Inspections, NHIF and the National Council of Prices and Reimbursement, as well as other executive bodies, through appropriate joint checks and the provision and collection of data. In this case, an agreement is imperative with the National Revenue Agency as it concerns the control of financial relations between traders of medicinal products that accumulate as subsequent infringements within the meaning of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In short, we do foresee such joint checks, where the representatives of the Inspectorate of the Ministry, the Executive Agency for Medicines and the National Revenue Agency are required. I probably don't have time right now, but I'm gonna have a chance after your evaluation of my response to say other things in this regard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u127	Thank you. Mr. Shishkov for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u128	Thank you for Mr. Minister's reply. I am confident that he will fulfill all the commitments he has made with our mutual assistance. This problem had to be raised because it is very serious and morally, not only because it prevents patients from being safe and what needs to be observed as a law. I am confident that with joint efforts we will be able to achieve things and I am satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u129	Would you like to use the backrest to provide more information?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Dr. Shishkov! I am grateful for putting this question, because it also opens another topic about the drug export. This must be clearly said, and it must be said from the stands of the National Assembly. I suggest we initiate such a discussion in the Health Commission, because this is a problem and should be called a problem. Regardless of my contradictions with the sitting Dr. Raynov, I would say that the amendment to the parallel exports submitted by him last year was a good measure. That the Constitutional Court has now canceled this thing,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u131	But they voted against everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u132	No, no. You know, let's try to do something right now. I say something good has happened. Let's assess what the parameters are, because the Constitutional Court really has its motives. Let's put in place certain different rules. I'll tell you a specific example about fast insulins. The supplier company imports 14% above the needs and again this insulin is missing, not enough for all people that is the problem! It must be made clear: if we are looking at European Union level for a different way to negotiate drug prices and not at the same levels as they are in Germany with their gross domestic product and their capabilities, we must very clearly and categorically declare that we have resolved the issue of parallel exports. Dr. Shishkov, thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u133	Thank you. People's representative Jayhan Ibryamov has asked for a delay in his question. That is why we are moving on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on the plans of the Ministry of Health for reforming the system for assessment of performance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u134	Dear Minister, I'm asking my question very well. Because it is extremely important for a large part of the Bulgarian society, I ask you for a slow answer, as I notice that you speak quite quickly, not to rap like Snoop Dog here because people want to understand what you say to them. Don't rush through the questions. I know there's no time, but they're important. The question I'd like to ask is about your request to remove the territorial expert medical committees, the so-called phones you made about a month ago. Since the conversation about this system reform has been stopped for about a month now, I would like you to answer the following questions. Is there a concept in the Ministry of Health already how to restructure the disability assessment system? Are you working on introducing a methodology of the World Health Organization for assessment of disability? Are there measures taken to hold a public debate on a possible new disability assessment mechanism, as a topic raised by you has shown that the opinion of society is divided. There are organisations that defend the position to preserve the current mechanism, with some improvements in its functioning; there are also organisations that claim that medical expertise, as a basis for assessment of disability, is an outdated approach and is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Given this variety of opinions and opinions, how will you open the public debate and how will you use expertise in these organizations so that all views can be found in it? How can the debate lead to the best possible mechanism to replace the system of wires or to improve it? What is the exact number of disabled persons in 2014, including those who first appeared to TelK? What is the age and geographical structure of the persons certified last year? Is there a Ministry of Health Analysis of Statistical Data that shows the reasons for the disability of people? If so, what are the conclusions of the analysis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u135	Here you are, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, if the President of the Parliament gives me the opportunity, I can answer for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u137	No, I think you're quite right on time. If you take into account his recommendation... within the time of accuracy, even better. You have the floor from here on out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u138	I didn't understand what you said, but I'm starting to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u139	Do you want me to say it again? I said you're responding quite correctly within the time frame.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u140	Can I answer as much as Mr. Kadiev wants, or as much as the Rules of Parliament require?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u141	Not as much as the Rules require, but in the back and extra.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u142	Okay. To be as specific as possible, because the issue is important, I will not read the answer presented in writing. It is just as administrative as the question. I will respond only to the specifics of the number of disabilitys. We have 2013 data, as 2014 data will be summarised and published at the end of March 2015, i.e. by next week. The total number of certified and certified was 187,949, of which 68,778 first appeared at TelK. The number of disabled persons in the age group between 50 and 65 years and above is the largest. 14.1% of individuals over 65 years of age have primary disability. The highest relative share of persons with life-time disability is 40.4%. You'll get that answer. When I brought this up, I had at least the illusion that different organisations.. as you say will be happy or welcome this thing. I want this dialogue to be conducted publicly and openly, not because of organisations, but because of people who have such a problem - first; second time, because of the parameters of the possibility of the state financing the process. These are the two mastodons we have to fight. That is, what needs to be done first is the ability of people to get real medical expertise quickly and adequately. This is rooted in the possibility for doctors to be able to give such an assessment. Secondly, the mechanism for the correctness of these things must be cleared, for which there are also the corresponding sanctions provided. Third, to separate the purely medical expertise from some social gain that goes with it. The whole philosophy is related to this: the doctor gives the percentage of damage that you have, but this results in nothing but the competence of the doctor who says from the suffering, damage or trauma that you have received, in what percentage your health has been damaged. From then on, a social worker together with the doctor of occupational medicine, because every Bulgarian enterprise has one by law, should assess in relation to the specifics of the workplace what part of these arrangements are disabled and what should be done to reintegrate you to work and not receive a hickey pension, a tram ticket and something else and stay at home. In no way have we given up on this thing, on the contrary, a very active working group of the Social and Health Ministry is currently working on clearing the texts. When we are finally ready, of course, we will present them for public discussion, as the law requires.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u143	Thank you. Mr. Kadyev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u144	Dear Mr. Moskov, I don't understand why you said the question was asked administratively? It was actually set by the organisations themselves of people with disabilities, and I am simply their conductor in parliament in this case. People are really interested in this thing. You answered the question, does the Ministry of Health have a concept? You said that, yes, there is a working group currently working on this, and when it is ready, we will put it to public discussion. But the last thing I want, and I guess most people want, is to have a formal discussion within two weeks or as much as by law, and move on to a quick vote in parliament. Mr. Moskov, I'm asking you to include the organizations. These are people going through the system. They themselves are people with disabilities who experience all the glamour of the current system of the staples. They drive them around the country, wondering how to pass through Telk and how long they will wait. Please don't avoid them, don't make a formal public discussion. Thank you for the statistics you gave me. I'm also looking forward to the written response with the full data system. Thank you. [[Mister Moskov communicates the written answer to the MP Georgi Kadiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kadyev, we have no argument about this, nor does anyone intend to isolate anyone from this conversation. Once again, let me assure every Bulgarian citizen who currently needs this type of expertise, or, God forbid, he will have to in the coming weeks and months until we accept the changes that the system will work without obstacles, as it is until we change it. And the faster we change it, which means that the less we talk, the faster the objective problems, for example how we can make a person go to TelK tomorrow, and not after a year and a half we give a regulatory answer, the better for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u147	Thank you. We are moving on to the issue from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Emil Raynov on the application of Regulation No 30 of 2004 on the establishment of medical standard "Physical and rehabilitation medicine." Mr. Vigenin has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, Order of the Council of Ministers No 169 of 26 June 2014 amended and supplemented the provisions of the Rules for the application of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, one of them being art. 28 of the Rules on Balneotherapy and/or Rehabilitation Services to be carried out at sites meeting the requirements of Regulation No 30 of 2004 on the establishment of medical standard "Physical and Rehabilitational Medicine." The aim is the State to ensure that those services are used for the purposes of the rightful persons paid by public funds, as well as to regulate and control the sites that provide them. At present 147 Social Support Directorates have made written inquiries on each specific case to regional health inspections in the territory of which the relevant service provider is located. This makes it difficult for both DSPs and regional health inspections and often prolongs the time limit for the directors of the Social Assistance Directorates to issue the supplement under the Administrative Procedure Code. More importantly, the lack of the necessary regulations and public registers of medical institutions which can carry out medical activities in the field of physical and rehabilitative medicine is extremely difficult for citizens who need and right to the use of these services. Despite the claims made by the Ministry of Health that such public registers are available on the website of the Regional Health Inspections of the Ministry of Health, a reference shows that there is no information in 15 of them concerning medical establishments and individual establishments which meet the requirements of Regulation No 30, there is a register available in two regional health inspections which is not updated and in the rest there is data only for hospitals without individual establishments included and without real-time updates. Our understanding is that for people with similar needs maximum relief should be created, not additional difficulties for their treatment. Therefore, my question to you is: will the Ministry of Health take the necessary urgent measures to provide broad public information with a view to fulfilling the rights of disabled people under art. 28 of the Rules of Application of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u149	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister Moskov, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, Dear Mr. Raynov, allow me to clarify that your question does not concern the problem of implementing Regulation No 30 of 2004 on the establishment of a medical standard in physical and rehabilitation medicine, or at least the Ministry of Health has not received any signals from medical establishments and other of our structures. It is more about organizational problems when implementing the regulatory changes to grant an additive under art. 42, para. 2, p. 4 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and its commitment to the requirement that the rehabilitation paid to people with disabilities be carried out in medical institutions which comply with Regulation No 30 of 2004 to validate medical standard. "Physical and rehabilitation medicine." In this regard, as early as autumn 2014, the Ministry of Health organised a meeting with experts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which was given clarification on the possibilities of the ASA employees to receive up-to-date information on registered medical institutions that can carry out their activities. In accordance with the requirements of the Law on Medical Institutions, hospitals are granted permissions to operate and this is reflected in the Register of the Ministry of Health, which is public. Medical facilities for outpatient care and hospital care shall be registered at the level of regional health inspections and there shall be kept a register of medical establishments, which shall also be public and contain details of the medical institution, the person representing the medical establishment, of the types of activities for which it is registered, data for conversion, merger and so on other circumstances. The procedure for keeping the Register shall be determined by the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 283 of 3 December 2010. Ordinance on the keeping of the register of medical institutions for outpatient care and hospice, adopted on the basis of art. 141, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions. In addition, after the meeting of the Ministry of Health, however, the question was raised that the hospital hospital records are not kept up-to-date, you are right here, therefore their employees face difficulties. In this regard, the Ministry of Health took immediate measures. By written instructions, we have ordered the RGIs to publish in due time and update the list of outpatient care facilities operating in physical and rehabilitation medicine in accordance with the requirements of the medical standard. The operational interaction and communication with the Social Assistance Directorates shall be addressed by responsible persons in the relevant RGIs, who shall, if necessary, pay in writing specific information for each treated patient. We should emphasise that the regulation does not provide for an obligation for medical establishments operating in physical and rehabilitation medicine to issue a type-certification document that they meet or fall within the scope of Regulation No 30, as well as an obligation of the relevant RAI to consult and confirm the relevant declared information. Nevertheless, our structures will cooperate with the social structures without fail, precisely because we have a common philosophy that these people should not be put in front of administrative obstacles. I hereby inform you that, on the website of all RZIs in the section "Registers" as well as in the section "Up-to-date communication" (Up-to-date communication) is published and information is available on medical facilities for outpatient care on the territory of the area concerned, which are engaged in physical and rehabilitation medicine in accordance with the requirements of the Ordinance. If you wish, we can provide links related to the information. For all actions taken with a view to ensuring the lawful supply of integration legislation for people with disabilities, we inform the MLSP in due time. In addition to the support measures taken, we have also carried out an analysis of the existing regulatory requirements for keeping the Register of out-of-hospital hospitals. We intend to optimize the texts of the Regulation for keeping a register, but this is related to amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions relevant to the problem. In this regard, the Ministry will propose a package of changes to this law, which will be put to public discussion in a week's time on the Ministry's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u151	Thank you. Who's gonna make a line? Mr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u152	Thank you- Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I'm impressed with the timely intervention you've taken. I really hope that everything you have said will be done and that RZI colleagues will do their job, because this was a huge problem and the people with the disabilities had a problem with taking this supplement. I'm really glad you responded so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u153	Thank you. We can get to the other question, can't we, Mr. Moskov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u155	He is from the National Representative Emil Raynov on the activities of invasive cardiology and control over them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, according to the current regulations, and in particular Ordinance No 34 of 2006, already former because there is a new year to acquire specialties in the health system, invasive cardiology is a highly specialized activity for the exercise of which it is necessary to acquire professional qualifications under art. 2, para. 2 of the Ordinance. At the same time, as we all know very well, invasive cardiology is not only high-tech but also high-risk medical technology. Please answer me: which higher schools have issued certificates for the acquisition of professional qualification according to Invasive Cardiology and how many specialists have issued them? How many foreign doctors exercise invasive cardiology in Bulgaria and in what order have they obtained the evidence of this professional qualification? Finally: how does the Minister of Health control the activities of invasive cardiology with a view to ensuring their quality and safety for patients?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u157	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Minister Moskov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Raynov, in relation to your question, I would like to inform you: In accordance with art. 179, para. 1 of the Health Act the Minister of Health coordinates and controls postgraduate training to acquire a specialty in the healthcare system. The training for professional qualification of specialists for the acquisition of competence in highly specialised activities of invasive cardiology is continuing medical training after an acquired specialty, which is organized and conducted by higher schools and word organizations according to art. 182, para. 2 of the Health Act. According to the medical universities and faculties, the total number of acquired professional qualifications for performing a highly specialised activity in invasive cardiology in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is 167 Bulgarian citizens and 9 citizens of the Member States of the European Union. Currently, training for the acquisition of professional qualification in invasive cardiology is held at the Medical University of Sofia, the Medical University of Pleven, and the Medical Faculty of the Thracian University of Stara Zagora. 139 specialists are trained in Sofia. In Pleven, 26 specialists, Bulgarian citizens, and 9 citizens of EU member states; and in Stara Zagora, two specialists, Bulgarian citizens. The Ministry of Health shall maintain a Register of medical establishments authorised under the Medical Institutions Act. Doctors who exercise activity in them, as well as their citizenship, are not an element of this Register. In accordance with art. 3 of the Law on Word Organizations of Doctors and Doctors of Dental Medicine all dentists and dentists who exercise their profession are members of the BDZ, respectively. This also concerns foreign nationals who should, in accordance with the relevant order of the Health Act, have previously recognised professional qualifications. The control of the activity of invasive cardiology is carried out in accordance with the general order of carrying out quality control of medical activities The Health Act regulates the control of the medical care of citizens, which is carried out by the Medical Audit Executive Agency (IAMO). With regard to invasive cardiology activities in 2014, the Medical Audit Executive Agency has carried out a total of 15 checks on hospital care institutions active in invasive cardiology, eight of them planned, one thematic and six complaints. The checks require the finding that, with the exception of two hospitals, there is a trend for increasing the volume of activity in all others, as well as for two hospitals, there is no provision of 24-hour organisational and material readiness for activity. In this regard, the Ministry of Health provides for the necessary measures to be taken -- the old-timer. Currently, national consultants in invasive cardiology are developing: firstly, a new way of registering patients who have gone through procedures related to invasive cardiology. They will drop out, at least according to the initial data the specialists say a lot of unnecessary things, and will enter time monitoring... what happens to these patients. At the moment, the Register says that this patient has undergone such a study, but further on whether it was necessary second, third, whether it has passed through Open Heart Surgery, or if some serious disability occurred to him, this register does not hold. This will also be part of the weapons of the Health Fund and the Ministry... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. ...to be able to say, "This or this Center of Invasive Cardiology has one and such success, not just a number of things. The other thing national consultants are currently doing in this area is related to clear criteria based not only on the number of people passed, but also on the quality of those things with which the state will also arm itself in the disclosure or re-evaluation of existing such structures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u159	Mr. Raynov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I allow myself to decode the old man for my colleagues. You and I both know what this is about. Colleagues, behind this, the tree-tree is hidden: 18 thousand hospitalizations were reported on the four main clinical pathways for invasive cardiology in 2013. 170. The NHIF paid 68 million for their treatment and 39 million for the facilities. For next year, it's already 23,000. 464 patients, an increase of 64%, in which the amounts for this activity from the NHIF in 2014 already exceeded 180 million. In the checks that the minister so specifically quoted, it was found that 85% of the patients were healthy in some of the laboratories where they performed invasive cardiology, provided that 90% of them had received an emergency. Or, as there is an impressive sentence on these checks by the national consultant on invasive cardiology, neither the healthy had indications nor the emergency patients were emergency patients. Finally, however, Mr. Minister, according to the Acting Act until 3 February 2015, Ordinance No 34 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health care system "Invasive Cardiology and Cardiology" and cardiostimulation. These are highly specialized activities for the exercise of which it is necessary to acquire professional qualification according to art. 2, para. 2 of the Ordinance. According to these provisions, the qualification is acquired after the implementation of a curriculum and successfully passed a practical and theoretical examination in front of a state examination committee determined by your order. However, the new Ordinance No 1 of 2015 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system deleted the requirements for the acquisition of professional qualifications. There are no highly specialized activities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At the same time, in the LDC (National Framework Treaty) 2015 there are mandatory requirements for them to exist for the conclusion of the contracts. We are worried that these checks that we see them again, the door opens wide for bad practices related to the issuance of such certificates. This enables unqualified people to perform these manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. In fact, the Minister will answer both parts of your reply, as it turns out that it is far from just qualification, but whether in any case these costly procedures are necessary. Here you go, Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u162	In order to close the conversation about qualifications and the way in which this thing is being submitted, the Regulation provides for a radical change, I hope that you approve of this, of the way young doctors start their fellowship, the possibility of removing any administrative obstacles. She's treating this. In the way of obtaining the qualification there is no change. This happens again in the examination committee in the way it has been so far, including it is envisaged that the head of practical training of the young doctor will be next to him on the relevant exam. I mean, there's no compromise with quality. I said these are the three or one of the three best medical schools. Speaking of which, since you're giving me the occasion, I'm going to brag that up to date, the hospitals have announced 478 specialization sites. And otherwise the dog is buried elsewhere, which is not bad, but probably not in line with our options. A good specialist in invasive cardiology can use 10, 15, 20, 30,000. lv. a month's income, fair and square, that's not what we're arguing about, is the reason for a lot of the things you're talking about. Our national consultants are given the clear task, and within this month they will give this thing and there will be very clear criteria in order to avoid the things you have cited, and they must be medically not administrative, as you yourself know, or there is a very simple administrative way in which it will be said what part of the value of the clinical path paid for (an expression in English) or for some of the invasive ones may go for remuneration of the staff. And that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u163	Thank you. We move on to the issue from the National Representative Valentin Ivanov about the future state and development of the Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In the town of Balchik, in the unique area of the Tuzlata, diseases of the central and peripheral nervous system, diseases of the motor system, children's cerebral palsy and others are treated. The healing mud has incredible qualities, which is why there are many willing to be treated on a health path. Unfortunately, the capacity of the bed base of the medical establishment is very limited to 90 beds. In addition, the many hot mineral waters reaching 60-70 degrees cannot be used functionally due to the lack of the necessary investments for this state specialised hospital. There is information on the existence of a project to turn this medical facility into a modern balneological and healing centre worth 10 million. BGN, which is a donation, according to my information. Dear Minister, is it envisaged in the near future to make a proposal for the construction of a balneological and healing modern centre in this unique area, which will contribute not only to the opening of jobs but also to attracting foreigners from all over the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Moskov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation The same is a medical establishment supposed to a trading company within the meaning of the Commercial Law. It works according to a permit issued by the Ministry of Health for carrying out medical activities on diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of diseases in the conditions of fixed medical care. The activities are carried out in the Department of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine with a second level of competence, in accordance with the established standard of the relevant type of medicine. According to the NHIF information system, the SBR-Tuzlata is working on a contract for the implementation of seven clinical pathways for rehabilitation in primary muscle injuries and spinal muscle atrophy, diseases and contusions of central and peripheral nervous system, child cerebral palsy and support system diseases. The medical facility is located in a region with favorable climatic conditions and good opportunities to use the healing effect of natural factors such as limanian mud, warm mineral water and sea water. The combination of hydrothermal therapy, peloidotherapy and thalassotherapy with modern physical factors has an extremely good impact on severe debilitating diseases. Currently, the competent Directorates in the Ministry of Health do not have information on upcoming projects to finance the construction of a balneological and healing centre in the territory of Upon receiving a specific proposal for a developed project, the project will be considered and its implementation will be supported with proven effectiveness and efficiency. And otherwise, yesterday it was handed over and it's on my desk a report from the management of the entire SBI complex, which is part of the general concept of the government in this regard, that is, we inventory what it has, within this entire complex, what it is to be developed, where it needs to invest something further, what is purely natural characteristics. In parallel, in addition to having the entire list of requirements that each Member State of the European Union has to a certain country or a designated balneological resort, or a designated rehabilitation hospital, so that public funds, social or health, can claim the presence of other European or other citizens in them. Minister Angelkova and I are preparing a joint working group on the real promotion of this thing. In general, the concept behind which this team of the Ministry stands is that this resource can be, first of all, renovated, second of all, brought really in line with the modern understanding of how this type of treatment and this type of rehabilitation should look, and why not spa tourism, and this should be one of the comparative advantages that Bulgaria should even at European level barrage for itself because these things are indisputable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u167	Thank you. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm very glad you have good intentions, which I understand you started them as your intention. I want to tell you a few things: firstly, about the project I don't know why you're not aware of, but I have information that this project, which is not worth a little bit of money. BGN is donated. You might be interested to know that it was donated precisely to those investments to be made in the Tuzlata. I'll tell you a few things: infrastructure is in terrible condition. Part of it has become a dump. The beach is extremely contaminated and unsupported. In the lake used by the sick, that is, those who use caloric treatment, you should know that there are snakes in the lake and they walk quite freely. And that's what I'm telling you because I used these favours in the summer. There hasn't been a brick there for 30 years, which means there's no investment on the beach, on the lake. Everything's in a miserable state. So it is good to get acquainted, to go even to the place, to see how things are, because it is a natural resource, and it is, I would say, a resource that is not only in Bulgaria, but is from the few resources and can be done many things in this direction in a good desire from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Mr. Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Nikolov, the sequence of action should be such. Indeed, from the report that I will also provide to you, to the management of the SBI, we must have a clear estimate of what resources we have. I would be grateful if, with the relevant investment intention, you had the opportunity to introduce me, because really, on an official basis in the Ministry, or in the SBI, there was no such proposal for investment intention. On the other hand, let's say that for each of these rehabilitation complexes, which is related to either some unique natural location or natural resources related to healing activity, there are different interests. They are not always entirely altruistic and for the benefit of people. My deep understanding is that when it is actually about infrastructure that is based and actually brings a possible profit precisely in relation to natural wealth, with national wealth was mud treatment, was mineral water, was some type of specific climate, then the state as a whole must collect this resource and be able to guarantee both Bulgarian citizens and other citizens of the European Union that this is a state policy. Of course, there will be a lot of private interest in this, but first it is the question of the state being able to protect the interest of its own citizens, these places being accessible, part of a national health policy. Let's not forget that these are hospital complexes after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u171	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Tarnovalyski about specialized hospital for pneumatic and phthsiatric diseases for active treatment. "Dimitar Kudoglu" Ltd., town of Plovdiv. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! For years in Plovdiv is developing the saga with the fate of the Hospital of the White House, called Dimitar Kudoglu, named after the city's biggest benefactor, who in the 1930s built a House of Health for the treatment of tuberculosis and other socially significant diseases. Since 2011, the local authorities in Plovdiv have been looking for ways to close this medical establishment and only the early termination of GERB's first term preserved it. The latest solution for the hospital is from Minister Tanya Andreeva, and said in April 2014 that the Plovdiv hospital will not cease its activities. At the end of December last year, the mayor of Plovdiv announced that in February 2015, the city of Plovdiv stopped working and the patients of tuberculosis will be treated in a separate wing of the University Hospital. George. The main argument of Plovdiv town chief is the poor financial condition of the medical establishment and the refusal of the municipality to assist him. According to the three syndicates at the hospital, however, this is not exactly true. At the end of 2014 the hospital was full of patients, they received the necessary care of doctors specialists and even there are waiting lists. Even Mr. Nick Herbert, a member of the British Parliament of the Conservative Party, wrote about the role and importance of such health institutions. You also received his letter on an initiative for the International Parliamentary Anti-Tuberculosis Network. It says that attention to Bulgaria is a result of information from the World Health Organization, according to which our country is struggling with forms of resistant to medical treatment strain of tuberculosis virus. Mr. Minister, my question to you is this: will you give permission to close the medical establishment, which is only and of great importance in the fight against tuberculosis and with a strategic role in the healthcare system in Plovdiv and the district?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u173	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Minister, you have the right to respond within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, I will try to divide the answer into two. One shorter because I've already had the opportunity to answer questions related to the hospital's activities. Neither is envisaged nor has the Ministry of Health submitted documents requesting the principle of consent to the closure of the hospital. On the contrary, I have actively requested data from the Regional Health Directorate. They are right at the moment, and are in the process of concluding contracts with the Cassate on eight clinical paths. What has been done is the relocation of part of the microbiological laboratory, which is owned by the Ministry under the Global Anti-Tuberculosis Fund, in a really very modern, very qualitatively made pneumatic-Physiatrics department at the University Hospital. As well as the doctors who wanted to move, Phatisiatra specialists have entered into a contract for treatment. That is, Kudoglu Hospital will not be closed, there has not been such a request, the municipality has no intention of closing and they have the opportunity to work on eight clinical pathways. Otherwise, from the point of view of the information that your fellow respondents are handling in the English Parliament, let us say the following. In Bulgaria in recent years there has been a clear trend of reduction of the incidence of active tuberculosis from 39.1 to 100 thousand in 2006 to 23.2 to 100 thousand in 2013. The registered cases of resistant tuberculosis confirmed by the National Tuberculus Laboratory also decreased in 2013 compared to transitional years. This is a clear positive trend. It is due to the implementation of the National Tuberculosis Prevention and Control Programme 2012 - 2015, a programme financed by the Global Fund aimed at active screening among the most vulnerable groups, actively searching for contact persons. The Ministry of Health is the main recipient of a grant under the Programme "Strengthening of the National Tuberculosis Program in Bulgaria." Every year the state budget provides funds and diagnostics for first-order anti-tuberculosis medicinal products with all patients from tuberculosis, regardless of their health insurance status. Let us say that Deputy Minister Persenski signed a memorandum last week, which is to be officiallyized with my signature, with a new agreement with the World Health Organization precisely to combat tuberculosis for 6 million for the next four years. The state of medical aid and the statistics on tuberculosis should not be supported by the Bulgarian side as such. In this respect we have good achievements, the health system is working well and financing this problem is also solved.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two-minute line, Mr. Turnover, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u176	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, but it does not satisfy us. I do not need to explain to you that with the relocation of the microbiological laboratory, which is equipped under the Programme of the Programme for the Control of Tuberculosis in Bulgaria.The National Tuberculosis Programme is supported by the Global Fund, and with the relocation of the labists, the hospital will close itself. This will happen, and this medical facility in Plovdiv cannot exist, despite the eight paths that you say they have the right and will be able to perform. The staff has been moved. The revenue from them will not be enough, and without a laboratory they cannot perform even what they need to do at the moment. We are not satisfied with this answer and this will obviously be another hospital closed during the management of GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u177	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Two-minute dots.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnover, much shorter than two minutes. First, the quality and ability of the citizens of Plovdiv and the region against tuberculosis is guaranteed and a new level has been set, because the equipment, ventilation systems and the way in which the new pneumatic-physio-physiatric compartment is built is built. Georgy is very, very modern. He responds to the way this has to happen. Besides, the hospital is not closed. I repeat, it's not being closed, there are no such documents. As far as I know, the municipality wants to carry out its actions by turning the hospital into a branch of another municipal hospital. This is in the ptrimonium, of course, of the Plovdiv municipality, it has the right to do so. But I repeat, there was neither the intention of the municipality nor the intention of the Ministry to close the hospital, and please do not speculate about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Teodora Radkova Georgieva on the problems of the students acquiring educational and qualification degrees. Here you are, Mrs. Georgieva, within 2 minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u180	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Minister, the profession of Paramedics is a trained medical professional who serves emergencies and incidents by carrying out the necessary medical activities aimed at restoring acutely occurring, life-threatening conditions and maintaining the vital functions of the body. The paramedic alone or with the help of medical professionals must carry out an initial assessment of the condition and provide assistance to the patient at the scene and during his transport to the medical establishment. In the course of the practical training, lectures are related to a written part and practical classes are not present. As far as we are aware of the management of the institution, such training will be carried out in the near future in medical institutions such as the University Hospital of Alexandrovska and the Hospital of Tokuda. The Students have also informed the students that the Director of Pirogov is reluctant to enter into a contract with the Medical College of Jordanka Filaretova, a major in Paramedics, as he is reserved for this profession and its legal irregularities. With regard to the courses "Anatomy" and "Patoanatomy" there is not a single lecture hour in the pathological anatomy hall. With regard to the legal framework for the specialty of "Paramedik". The specialty has not yet been regulated and accredited. The set disciplines are extremely inaccessible in volume. Despite all the irregularities coming from the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health, in relation to the specialty are taken semester fees, study programs are prepared without regulatory standard and accreditation, higher education is completed with the educational and qualification degree of the Professional Bachelor and then there is no clarity whether this profession can be exercised by graduates, whether it will be legitimate. In the profession, Paramedics exists...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u181	If you please, your question, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u182	One more minute, if I may. I just want to make a reference. The educational-qualification degree of Paramedics has three years of training. To the extent that the education and qualification degree of the medical nurse has four years of training and the competences of the nurse, they can...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u183	Please, we're breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u184	Okay. Mr. Minister, when will a regulation governing precisely and clearly the competences, functions, duties and responsibilities of the paramedic be prepared to solve the problems with the practical trainings and the unwillingness of the Director of the Pirogov to sign a contract for carrying out the practical sessions? To be recognized the specialty of Paramedics in Bulgaria and abroad is the guarantee for the realization and exercise of this specialty. When will the educational-qualification degree be closed "Professional Bachelor" as recorded in the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020? What will be the minimum threshold of a paramedic's gross salary in grade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. 1.19 min. You delayed time and asked more than one question. In accordance with art. 93 of the Rules you are entitled to one question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, at present in the Republic of Bulgaria the occupation of Paramedics is regulated. Directive 2005/36/EC does not set minimum qualification requirements for training for that profession. It is apparent from the published information on the website of the European Commission that there are a similar regulated profession under different names from a total of 32 countries of the European Union and Switzerland in 13 countries. In 6 out of 13 countries, the training of this regulated profession takes place after a completed secondary education of 3-4 years. In 7 countries, training is carried out in the secondary vocational education system. The other 19 countries have not indicated to have such a regulated profession in their territory. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Health has proposed to the Minister of Education and Science to draft a proposal of the Council of Ministers for the inclusion of the profession of Paramedic on the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Bulgaria. It is only after the inclusion of the profession that the Minister of Health has a legal basis to propose for the adoption by the Council of Ministers of uniform state requirements for the acquisition of education in the specialty of the Ministry of Health. State requirements for the acquisition of higher education in educational degrees and in specialties are validated only in regulated professions. You should keep in mind that higher schools enjoy academic autonomy, which also includes academic self-government. It is expressed in the self-development of study plans and the choice of specialties in which training is to be carried out. Currently, training in the qualification degree is held in the medical colleges at the Medical University of Sofia, and the Thracian University of Stara Zagora. The recognition of a qualification acquired in Bulgaria for the purpose of carrying out a regulated profession in the territory of another Member State of the European Union, or Switzerland, is carried out in accordance with Chapter 1 of the General System for the Recognition of a Training Certificate of Directive 2005/36/EC, i.e. by making a comparison between the training carried out in Bulgaria and the training carried out for that profession in the host country. In recognition, the professional experience of the applicant should also be taken into account. Regarding your question as to when the qualification degree will be closed, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister of Education and Science is the state body for the implementation of national policy in higher education. In relation to the question raised about the salary of paramedics, it should be stressed that the Ministry of Health is not a party to a collective contract. The collective employment contract by industry and industry shall be concluded between the relevant representative organisations of employees and employers under an agreement between their national organisations, defining common positions on the scope and procedural framework of industry and industry contracts. The agreement setting out the scope and procedural framework of these contracts shall be concluded between the national representative organisations of employees and employers. At industry and industry level, initial and basic monthly salaries and minimum amounts of additional wages may be agreed if they are not determined by preliminary legal rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Georgieva, you are entitled to a 2-minute line. You're giving up. Under art. 99 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we are going to ask the MPs Christian Vigenin and Maya Manolova about the personnel policy of the Ministry of Health regarding hospitals with predominantly state participation. Here you are, Mrs. Manolova, to develop the question within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u188	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Moskov, the personnel policy of every government always provokes great interest and excitement among Bulgarian citizens because it is a true indicator of the mentality of any power, and also because it affects the fates, the lives of tens, of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, I have to say this - political dismissals in our latest history are part of the business card of any power. We can argue about who the champions are. According to ABB, according to me, the reformers, according to you probably DPS or BSP. We can argue, but I think we'll agree on a first time in power, in the quadruple coalition, one of the political subjects comes up with the claim of a moral corrective. It comes from the street, from the protest and says: "We will not make political appointments. We will appoint only professionals. You must know it's the Reformation Block. I can quote dozens of statements from the chairman of your parliamentary group and your leader Mr. Kanev, who swore regularly that party appointments would not be made. But it turned out that he was acting on the principle too. Don't look at me, listen to what I'm saying! Mr. Kanev, who spoke against the party appointments today, turned out to be speaking with his mouth full not only because he had appointed his associate's wife as Deputy Minister of Energy, but because it is already a fact that whole sectors, whole ministries are feudal domains of reformers. I mean the security services, I mean the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, the regional government. This is probably why the citizens have already named the movement "Bulgaria" of the citizens in the Movement of Regional Managers, the Ministry of Economy in the Ministry of Democratic Forces, and as it has gone, soon the Ministry of Health will be the Ministry of Party Jobs or Democrats for Party Health as you like. The fact is that you are far from the achievements of Minister Lukarski, who is said to have made more party appointments than is the membership table of the UDF and that the entire national leadership of 15 people, or almost all, is already on a state feeder. But the pace at which you started is more than disturbing. I'll give you a few examples...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u189	Mrs. Manolova, I'm sorry, but the limit of your speech is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u190	Several examples from the past weeks: Dr. Panitza from the State Hospital in Plovdiv, Dr. Kitov, prominent right-wing farmer on the board of the same hospital, Dr. Kondudzhiev, former head of Sofia, on the board of Alexandrovska Hospital, chief of emergency care in Pernik, from the UDF, recently appointed, also reformer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u191	Mrs. Manolova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u192	My question to you is: what is the personnel policy of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Minister, you have the right to answer the question within 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I will allow myself to read only part of the prepared answer. At present, I have used my right to change to the management bodies of the managed health care facilities, as follows. In 22 hospital care facilities, only one holding company with 100% state participation AD, five changes were made to the Board of Directors, including one executive director until a competition was held in Pleven. In 18 hospital care facilities.. sole liability companies with 100% state participation Ltd. were made two changes in the managers until the holding of competition appointments. There have been four changes to the Board of Directors including the Executive Director in 26 hospital care facilities with a majority participation of more than 50% AD. Assuming that the question you have raised concerns only the last group of medical institutions.. 26 with a predominantly state participation because it is formulated, I am left to you to compare the changes made in four hospitals with 15 changes made to executives in the previous term. And now, because your question contained something very different from a conversation about hospitals, I'm going to start it from hospitals. The hospital, where I have very aggressively replaced the CEO, was the hospital in Blagoevgrad. I can say it quite honestly from this tribune now. The entire file on this man's activities and his wards is in the D.A.'s office, which remained amazed. By the way, as far as I can see, Mr. Vigenin, I don't know what the reason is for changing the principle, because it's a state hospital, part of the party management to go and protect the current director. I do not understand the reason why party leadership is in support of a hospital director?! This is supposed to be a state structure, not a party structure. Isn't that right? That's just my question. Otherwise, the official records of the hospital with the signature of Chief Accountant, Director and Chief of Clinic, which contained the names of Lemony and Orangey, were for this hospital. These are official documents against which the Cashier paid money. And they were taken inside the hospital records. Do you understand?! This isn't about funny notes. Mrs. Manolova, there are no party appointments in the Ministry of Health system. If there is someone somewhere, you are referring to Mr. Panitza and Mr. Kitov. Let me say that in the last three years, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Kitov is a member of the board of directors of this hospital is not my appointment. If someone in Plovdiv or at all in the medical or public public has any doubt about the qualities of the professional and management, of Assoc. Pancake, that's another question. I don't do party assignments. And I won't! The Reformation bloc also does not make party appointments. Anyone who does this thing on their own is responsible. Again, please do not speculate on things that you have applied to, what is currently happening seems like a pioneer camp.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In accordance with art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 you have the right, Mr Vigenin, to ask no more than two supplementary questions within a total of two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, we are MPs and we will protect anyone who we believe is unfairly fired. Under your pressure, a series of illegal actions were taken in the hospital. After a series of periodic checks on the work of the Executive Director Dr. Pandev, no administrative acts have been issued. However he was forced to convene a general meeting for his shift, the date being set for 17 March this year. Instead of following the legal procedure, on 22 January two of the three members of the Board of Directors released Dr. Pandev and appointed Dr. Goshev, who did not meet the legally required qualification to take up this post. On the same day he applied for leave, notice, 17 March "The date on which the General Assembly was scheduled, and for acting as Executive Director was appointed Doctor Mitev. Meanwhile, no action has been taken to implement the decision of the Board of Directors Dr. Goshev to be entered in the Commercial Register. However, actions have been taken to force Dr. Pandev out of the cabinet, although by law he should perform his duties until entry into the Commercial Register of a new CEO. On this issue there is also an opinion of the Ministry of Justice, signed by the Deputy Minister of Justice. At the same time, the illegal management of the hospital Dr. Mitev performs in conflict with the law on a full scale the functions of executive director. I use the platform of the National Assembly to refer to the prosecution to carry out a full examination of the circumstances surrounding the change of the Executive Director and of the actions of Dr. Mitev after taking over the management of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. My two supplementary questions are: what imposed the circumvention of the legal procedure and will you take personal responsibility for the legal mess that has been created, or will you take measures against the employees who misled you for this procedure? Are you aware that with the actions taken, you blocked the possibility of upgrade of the hospital with a new unit of invasive surgery, which is in the interest of a private structure offering the same services to the direct detriment of the citizens of Blagoevgrad and the district. All kinds of political pranks here, I think they're inappropriate, and I believe in your answer we'll get a little more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u197	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you are entitled to a three-minute answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Manolova, Dear Mr. Vigenin! I'm not taking three minutes. Of course, you have the right to refer to the prosecution, but I say again: I have done so two weeks ago. Please take a look at the facts. Let it be known that you are currently entering into protection of a person who has signed under documents in which Achik-achik writes: "The sick one has one disease, we will hand it over to the Health Insurance Fund under another diagnosis. That, if it wasn't, how can I say, damaging the public fund in serious proportions would be just funny, because that's a little bit dumber than Zlatanov's notebooks, I mean, you have to be so simple to do it. These are factually proven things.. documents with outgoing and input numbers. Please don't stand up for such people. I will use every opportunity on the edge of the law, beyond the law, so that such people do not have access to the Bulgarian hospitals anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Manolova or Mr. Vigenin, you are entitled to two-minute treatment. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u200	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Moskov, you are not honored that you are trying to launch a former, although the Ministry of Interior, and to deliver sentences from the parliamentary tribunal. I'm letting this affect your ratings. What I want to tell you is that the Moskov model is already in place and it is manifesting itself in full force in the hospital in Smolyan city. After the December shift of the CEO and the management of this hospital, there really became a pandemic. The difference between all previous governments and you reformers, and this quadruple coalition is that you clean up all the footage that is not related to you, all the way down to the last person. In the Smolyan hospital were carried out over 30 dismissals of cleaning women, of laundry ladies, of nurses, of ordinary staff, of drivers, of ordinary citizens who are not related to political parties, but were not appointed by you. You've come so far as to fire entire families. Errol's family, who was a chauffeur, his wife was a laundromat, is currently out of a job fired by the management that you hired. I think that the presence of the Reformation bloc in the quadruple coalition in terms of chamber policy is indeed a disaster. And you haven't unfolded, as far as I can tell, because of one fact, the Ministry's rules of procedure are not ready, but you're bypassing it anyway. I will use the words of Mr. Radan Kanev, who cried out from this tribune that years ago, you see, a korav saddler at work hadn't stayed. Yes, the fact is that for 14 years you have been on duty and praying out of power. Your prayers have been answered, but I don't understand now...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u201	Mrs. Manolova, the minutes are running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u202	... why instead of God, you see Boyko Borisov and instead of Christian Democratic values, which are the basis for every right-wing party, you see power.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u203	Mrs. Manolova, thank you for your political dialogue. In spite of my sympathies, I'm going to have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u204	Why do you overeat during Easter fasts, including in the field of health care?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u205	Thank you. [[Heckling]] I'm going to ask you to calm down in this room, regardless of the number of members.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u206	And Batashki? Batashki, should we fire him from the Ministry of Interior Hospital?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u207	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Please don't! We move on to a question asked by the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov about hospitals with the biggest debts. You are welcome to develop your question within two minutes, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u208	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my question is related to what Mrs. Maya Manolova has just said. The biggest debts were accumulated during the management of the BSP. Fact, if we run the analysis and run a background check. On this point, I would like to ask a clear and precise question. The accumulated out-of-control duties of a large group of hospitals have been overlooked by previous governments and ministers who continue to generate losses. This will have a negative impact on future reforms set by the Ministry of Health. For me, it is a stumbling stone not only for the minister, who has a great desire to do some work, and the government, but also for the National Health Insurance Fund. If the people who have to take money from hospitals decide to put a backlog on the accounts of those hospitals that are large debtors, many of them will have to close doors and stop working. This is not a political issue, it is a matter that needs to be dealt with in the past tense and understand who are the culprits who brought hospitals to obligations of 60-70-100 million and so on. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: what healing measures do you intend to take regarding the financial situation of hospitals with the greatest debts, including personnel? [[Heckling]] I don't want to politicize the issue, but I very much want to make personnel changes where there are already more than 10 years of bloated directors who continue to generate obligations........................... whether this will be a political issue, or will be quite on the part of the management of hospitals and the Ministry, do not hinder the reform that started the Ministry and the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u209	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I would like to say and I will use cleverly because the procedure does not allow me that when part of the Bulgarian hospitals are turned into social services for finding jobs on a party line and when then the manager of this hospital, in order to comply with the Minister's order to reduce the duties and make plans to repay the outstanding debts, starts to leave only staff directly related to the hospital's activities that is good, it is not bad and I do not care who hired these people. While we talk about the hospital being assigned drivers, gardeners, launderers, cooks, and I don't know what kind of people we're gonna be at, and I'm gonna be asked questions like this: why do hospital debt grow? The hospital is not a social home where some party-line people get an assignment. Period. Mr. Shishkov, the obligations of state hospital care facilities as of 31 December 2014 amounted to 342 million. And 430,000. lv. As of 31 December 2014, the municipal hospital care facilities' obligations amounted to 54 million. 355,000. lv. The total amount of the overdue liabilities of these hospitals is 147 million. 856 thousand. BGN, including the public health institutions' claims amounted to 119 million. 480,000. BGN, and the municipal medical institutions respectively amount to 28 million. 376 thousand. lv. There are them by breakdown, you will get the specific contract... what we do specifically. Anexis are prepared for the management contracts of each of the directors of hospitals, which includes new reporting clauses, respect for financial discipline and commitment, such as the implementation of the management contract, for non-accumulation of new liabilities. That is, from now on, the possibility of the hospital's management taking on some type of obligations which are not compatible with the possibility of being paid on an ongoing line will be quasi-impossible, or this will be sanctioned immediately, regardless of how the opposition accepts this sanction. I say again that at the moment it is not interesting to me, it is really not interesting who is the director of the hospital under the patrimonyum of the state, i.e. where the state is the principal at whatever political time it is appointed, and with which person we are currently doing the shift. As soon as one of the directors of these hospitals comes out of financial discipline, it will be replaced immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Shishkov, you have the right to reply within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u212	Thanks for the answer. I want to ring the bell this way, because what I hear here, from this tribune and from the pre-talkers, and the attacks that are in advance to the minister, I'd probably label it as Gandalf the Grey for a second, and maybe it'll become Gandalf White at the end of management, not for another reason, but for that, because it'll make his hair whiter completely whiter, because, first, the desire is for a month or two to overcome all the problems accumulated in the years. It is precisely so that there are no such statements and attacks on the Minister, who is from the Reformation bloc and who is purely willing to carry out the reforms, as well as the entire government, of course, I want these issues to be cleared. Let us know by all who are the people who have accumulated the greatest debts, why and for what reason. Again, this isn't about some political hustle of my question, but I'm going to keep these people informed all the time. I will initiate any action that will help the minister and the government to clear the system of these very thefts. Those are thefts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u213	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get me a jacket in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Shishkov, you know that I am at least a person who will hide these things. The largest hospital on duty is from 41 million.. St. George's Hospital in Plovdiv. There have been changes in management. Second under obligation "24 million," Hospital "Stoyan Kirkovic" "Stara Zagora." Where's Mrs. Manolova?! [[BSP LB.]] The director of the Hospital, Stoyan Kirkovich, appointed during the previous management, had been able to negotiate from everything she needed as equipment, had also been able to negotiate a kitchen block. She was able to stop the activities of the State Invasion Cardiology so that a private hospital next door could operate this. Should we have left her?! Currently, the plan to implement the debt restructuring of the new management works in a structural hospital, such as Stara Zagora District Hospital, people are starting to repay the debts. Where is this Mrs. Manolova?! That woman had brought him to a state in which she had stopped at the peak of Christmas the heating of the sick. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Why? Because she's so fit, that's why.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u215	Now we're gonna see the new...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u216	The new guy provides all this, really. I can go on with the hospitals, Dr. Shishkov, but beyond that, let me say that I will have a particularly strict view of each of the hospitals, who had allowed herself to violate the instructions of the Minister of Finance and hold a serious amount of money in a bank. They had to be diversified. First of all, I don't understand what it means for a hospital not to have money to pay better salaries or better treatment for its patients with a five, six, ten million book?! After that, I really don't understand the possibility of not following direct orders on the principal. Each of these people will also be sanctioned, whatever Mrs. Manolova thinks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u217	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Emil Raynov on measures to prevent and establish conflict of interest of the Board of Directors of the Multiprofile Hospital D R Bratan Shukerov. Here you are, Mr. Raynov, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I was informed by a group of municipal councilors from Smolyan city that by your order you have replaced the composition of the Board of Directors of the Hospital Dr. Bratan Shukerov., Smolyan, as the same members of directors, according to the signal, are partners in commercial companies with similar activities and engage in private medical activities. I take note of the urgency with which the Board of Directors was replaced in Smolyan, if I am not mistaken in December last year, despite the positive result of 200,000, unlike other hospitals that you are finally quoting. I am a little worried about what you mentioned in the previous statements of the questions - two differing signals - it is not interesting who I replace. It is important who you replace with and whether there is a conflict of interest. As well as the other, which was very frightening for me, because you come from reformers, I will also change on the edge of the law. Minister, do you think that these directors are in conflict of interest and please inform me what follow-up actions, if they are conflict of interest, will you take in accordance with the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u219	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u220	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Dr. Raynov! I start in the middle of the answer without the introductory sentences. On 2 December 2014 was held such an extraordinary General Assembly of the Shareholders of The initiative for holding the meeting was by the Municipality of Smolyan, which by letter of 9 September 2014 deposited a proposal for the release of the current Board of Directors in the composition of Dr. Nina Shehova "Yankova," Dr. Mariana Metodieva and Mrs. Lydia Stojkova "Chorbanova" and for the election of a new council in the composition: Dr. Stefan Dimitrov Raykov, Dr. Marin Dimitrov Darakchiev and Dr. Krasimir Mitkov Sabev. It should be noted that two of the proposed new members, Dr. M. Darakchiev and Dr. St. Raykov, were on a previous board of directors who managed the period 2011 - 2014. The Ministry of Health decided to support the municipality of Smolyan and to empower its representative to vote for the proposed new composition of the Board of Directors. In this way, the Board of Directors of the medical establishment is recovered in almost the same composition, managed for 3 years and replaced at the beginning of 2014 by the Minister of Health, without finding any violations and with a positive financial result of the medical establishment for 2013. The persons proposed and elected as members of the Board of Directors have submitted the corresponding required declarations when they are entered in the Trade Register and subsequently the declarations under art. 12 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. It was subsequently found that one of the members of the Board of Directors is the manager of the subsidiary Devin Medís Hospital Ltd. The sole owner of the University Hospital Devin Med is Dr. Bratan Shukerov JSC, namely the hospital in Smolyan. Devin Medhos Hospital Ltd. was founded in 2013 in search of a solution to the problem with the municipal hospital in Devin. The subsidiary was registered in the Commercial Register on 25 February 2013 with capital 2 BGN, management address in Smolyan, Blvd. "Bulgaria" No 2, with manager Dr. Krasimir Sabev, but has never started and has not developed activity. Nevertheless, by letter to the Board of Directors we have requested that Dr. Krasimir Subev be written off as the manager of the In the declarations submitted, the Executive Director, Dr. Marin Darakchiev, stated that he owns 20% of the shares of another limited liability company and that he is the sole owner of the "Ambulatory for Specialized Medical Assistance in ENT Diseases'. The holding of shares in a non-performing company is admissible and is only declared to the General Assembly if it holds more than 25% of the capital, before the election of the person as a member of the Board of Directors, and whether the ownership of the Ambulatoria, as a hospital institution, constitutes a conflict of interest, has already been pronounced by its decision the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflict of interest, inc. No MH-37-0076 of 8 July 2013. The Commission's decision is that no conflict of interest has been established for Dr. Marin Darakchiev as a member of the Council and Executive Director of the University Hospital Dr. Bratan Shukerov. The third member of the Board of Directors Dr. Stefan Dimitrov Raikov has stated that he owns 20% of the shares of another limited liability company, the Ambulatory [[The President signals that time has expired.]] By analogy to the signal for Dr. Darakchiev, checked by the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest, the holding of 20 percent of the capital of a company with an activity in the field of hospital aid should also not constitute a conflict of interest. Finally, to recall that anyone who has evidence that a public office holder has infringed the provisions of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest may submit a written alert to the Commission for the prevention and establishment of a conflict of interest which carries out the relevant verification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Raynov, line in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u222	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, since there is a letter from the Commission for Conflict of Interest, it acts as an indulgence, there is no problem at all. However, I am facing the question of a hospital with 200,000 positive results somehow very quickly in December, at the same time you have known from November about those hospitals that you are currently quoting, and 5 months nothing is being done. Finally, a truly administrative council. Look around your Legal Directorate or appoint a good legal counsel as a consultant so that you can finally validate your decision and sign the Board's change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u223	Thank you, Dr. Raynov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head. Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u224	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u225	There is a question of the MP Maya Manolova, who has been withdrawn. With this, Mr. Minister, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control and wish you a successful day and a smiley weekend!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u227	We are going to answer questions to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP Borislav Iglev about the state of the road Topolovgrad "Stara Zagora." Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u228	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! In my polling area, I have been repeatedly alerted by the citizens of Topolovgrad about the state of Topolovgrad road. The road in question hasn't been repaired in years, there's no asphalt. There's only holes and stones. Carriers are definitely refusing to travel along the line and using bypass routes! This is a 24-hour route for over 600 workers working shifts in the tets and mines to Stara Zagora and Galabovo, while children living in the surrounding villages travel to the high school in Topolovgrad. The Road Infrastructure Agency is aware of the problem section for which 18 million were allocated several years ago. leva, but the project is not approved! In this regard, I ask you to answer me when will the project for repair of the Topolovgrad road be approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u229	Mr. Iglev, although the map wasn't placed on you, you were accounted for less than two minutes. Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the right to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u230	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iglev! The direction of Stara Zagora is undoubtedly an important strategic direction because this time it serves the territory and work of the tets and mines in this region. That is why, taking into account the importance of this important road direction, the road connecting Stara Zagora with Topolovgrad is part of the priorities that we have set in the Operational Programme. It comes first because it meets all the criteria set for funding with European funds. In this respect, 40 km, its indicative value is 26 million. BGN, and I hope that after the final approval of the Operational Programme by the European Commission, which we expect by the summer of this year, the Travel Agency will have the opportunity, and it has its technical readiness, to present and apply with this project for funding under the Operational Programme and to take the necessary action to implement this path accordingly. Apart from that, I suppose that you are referring specifically to a third-class road, namely the road from the Polish town of Topolovgrad to the village of Ustrem, which is the third-class road, part of the direction, which serves these 600 workers, which you refer to and who work in the Tesses and in the mines. This time is also foreseen in this direction, so its rehabilitation, not only of the second-class, but also of the third-class route, is intended to be rehabilitated as part of the overall component of rehabilitation of this direction. At the time, however, until this happens, we realize that the road is in a bad enough state, unfortunately, what we will do after the winter period is over, as every year, in May we are doing an analysis of Republican roads. Within the budget at our disposal, we prioritize the available funds so as to make at least a large-scale or partial patching of the road network so as to ensure safe movement of travelers to the period in which we can now and will be able to finance with the 26 million that are necessary for overall rehabilitation, reconstruction and good drainage including on the road and its basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Iglev, you have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer and the exact amount you said and that the third-stage road from Polish Gradec to Topolovgrad will be corrected, which is also included. This is a satisfactory response for the inhabitants of Topolovgrad and for my area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u233	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Madam Minister, you don't have an ass. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov concerning problems for people who have developed in relation to the actions of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre in the preparation of a cadastral map of the region of Lozenets. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question concerns the preparation of cadastral maps for a number of metropolitan areas and the problems encountered in these procedures. Dear Minister, since the end of last year the Cartography Agency has started procedures for the preparation of cadastral maps for the capital area of Lozenets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Activities under the order of art. 35 and the following of the Cadastral and Property Register Act are entrusted to external contractors commercial companies. As a Member of Parliament since 23. A multi-mandated electoral area in the city of Sofia contacted me about a number of citizens of the districts above, with complaints that there was no adequate notification of the procedures for the preparation of a cadastral map. It is also noticed that the time limits laid down by the Director of the Agency's Order to indicate the boundaries of the property of the owners are the minimum permitted under the law, namely 30 days from the promulgation of the relevant order of the Director of the Agency. In addition, citizens from the region of Lozenets informed me that the requirement of art. 35 of the Law on the Announcement of the Order by the Director of the Agency in two central daily newspapers and in appropriate places in the regional administration within 5 days of the publication of the Order in the Official Gazette, the notifications were placed only a few days before the deadline for providing data and documents by the owners. Last but not least, the question arises as to why, for such large areas, the Agency has provided for the minimum period permitted by the law to state borders and provide documents; and why are documents only accepted at one or two desks within the regional administration or contractor? All this has to do with a number of inconveniences and tensions for the inhabitants of the above-mentioned areas. Dear Minister, please answer the following question: do you think that the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadasta Agency has established a good organization for the preparation of a cadastral map for the capital areas, including for the area of Lozenets. If there are gaps, what measures will you take as the principal of the Agency to overcome them and to create a normal environment for presenting documents and to familiarise yourself with the maps of property owners in the areas, including the failure to raise additional costs for them due to the inability to comply with the initial deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u235	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, you have the right to respond within 3 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u236	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! I am certainly aware of the situation in relation to the activities assigned by the Cadastre Agency for the preparation of a cadastral map for the regions. Analyzing the situation, the actions taken over the last nearly one year, I see that indeed the deadlines you mentioned, the way the campaign was conducted, do not meet in fullness the requirements and expectations of the residents of these areas, including the 30-day period for indicating the boundaries and publication of the materials. Including me, because you have referred several times to the region of Lozenets, as living in the area I can confirm that yes, we have been informed, but indeed at the last moment. As a citizen, I can confirm that there are gaps in the work assigned. What have I done in recent months, analyzing the situation and work of the Agency? First of all, you know, the leadership of the Cadastral Agency has been changed because we have seen that work, pace and organisation do not meet all the requirements they should meet. Secondly, specifically on the development of the cadastral maps of the city districts, I ordered that, after receiving a signal from the mayor of the region, a minimum of 1000 information messages should be distributed, as well as the signal I have from you. I extended the deadline for adoption of documents to 13 February and then a second time to 16 March, i.e. the deadline is still valid. We also made it possible for all those willing to submit further information on the meaning of the borders, additional information relating to their properties to be provided in the services of the Cadastre Agency in the regions of Sofia Municipality, so that we could ensure and support the capitalist citizens of Sofia to provide their information to the maximum extent. After all, our goal is to have an up-to-date and well-developed cadastral map that includes the actual and correct information that is necessary. You commented that the Cadastral Agency's orders from the autumn of last year were not officially announced and the law was not respected. However, this is not the case. They're officially announced. One is announced in a daily newspaper on September 12th, the other on November 18th, so I want to reassure you, the law is Another point is that the information campaign itself by putting on buildings of schools, kindergartens, public buildings was obviously not good enough. That is why our additional instructions are in this direction to release more information, including on the Internet. I can assure you that we will continue to monitor the work. The work of the teams is done, it is done to a large extent, but the cards must finally be handed over in April. I hope that despite the situation in which the Agency turned out and the citizens of Sofia, the performers will develop the maps in due time, quality and reliable. Otherwise, we are ready in daily communication with the Cadastral Agency to take the necessary action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u237	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Slavov, come in. You're entitled to a two-minute line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u238	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As soon as the question was asked, perhaps a week later I noticed, as I too live in Lozenets, posted the notices that the Law requires, in many places, i.e. this gave a result at that time. Now I understand why it worked. Obviously you intervened and the contractor has taken adequate action. The problem is that there is a problem in other areas as well. And for the bloating, and for the Renaissance, a lot of people signaled me. It is not a bad idea to extend the deadline, as was done for Lozenets. I have no doubt now that after your response from this tribune, the broadest possible range of people will learn about the problem and who has not understood that the deadline for providing documents is over, this time will be triggered and will meet the requirement of the Law. Regarding the requirement of the Law, I did not mean and did not state that there was in practice a formal violation, but I found that the absolute minimum required by law is fulfilled, which for such large areas of Sofia, some of which larger than a medium-sized Bulgarian city, at least is disturbing. Here was also my reproach on the previous management of the Agency for not having complied with these facts and circumstances, because this is the minimum legal period provided for small towns, perhaps even smaller settlements, but not for the major administrative areas of the capital. I am glad that asking the question has also resulted in your actions. I certainly hope that the necessary preparation of a cadastral map is not at the expense of the citizens of Sofia and the big cities, but to do it in a way that does not hinder them, and that the contractors can do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u239	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, you're entitled to the backrest within 2 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Slavov, yes, I want to assure you, because you specifically asked the question about Lozenets. The period for the region of Renaissance was also extended. I would like to appeal once again to all residents of Sofia that they can submit their up-to-date information on their properties, including the dividing borders, to the offices of the Cadastral Agency in the areas of residence, in order to achieve the maximum sought effect of the current, quality and reliable cadastral map of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u241	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a general answer to three questions. One of them is withdrawn. The question of the MP Maya Manolova. The answer is therefore two questions and we enter into art. 102, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first question by the MPs Mihail Mikov, Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski about the National Program for Sanitation is the order of the question. Mr. Boychev, please develop your question within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, with colleagues Svilenski and Mr. Mikov we asked this question as MPs from each of the three electoral regions in Sofia. You know that on the territory of Sofia Municipality there are concentrated large residential complexes that fall within the scope of the announced by you and launched the National Program for Sanitation. At the many meetings we hold in our electoral districts, perhaps the most frequently asked question about the National Sanitation Program is what is happening and how it will proceed with this type of residential buildings, where there are built constructions, upgrades and glazings, most often on the balconies, which, within the meaning of the regulations in Bulgaria, are illegal constructions. I have followed several of your media appearances, but I would like to ask this question to you from the tribune of the Bulgarian Parliament to clearly answer and explain to the people who have a number of concerns, does the National Program for Sanitation for Application provide that they can also submit housing blocks with such a type of essentially illegal annexation? How and in what way the audits assigned will take into account essentially the different volumes that will be subject to energy audits essentially on its façade in locations, essentially the structural changes made to the building. These are the issues that greatly concern thousands, I can say tens of thousands of citizens in the capital when deciding to join the National Sanitation Program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u243	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. The second question is from the MP Vili Lilkov on the energy efficiency programme of multifamily residential buildings. Mr. Lilkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Pavlov, Dear colleagues! My question also applies to the Sanitation Program, and it is the following. In addition to asking a question with the case of glass terraces to call it, I ask you a question: once the renovation of these buildings is carried out, will a class of energy efficiency C be achieved? Will the Law on Local Taxes and Fees be applied, in particular Art. 24, para. 1, t. 18, which requires that in achieving such a class of energy efficiency of owners be exempt from property tax? Another question is added to it, namely: the implementation of the renovation will increase the property tax assessment? And another question I've also asked in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u245	You're only allowed one question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u246	They are within this question that I have asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u247	Within a common question, let's say, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u248	Accordingly, how is the number of 36 apartments determined as a minimum in order to be able to apply from one floor property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u249	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, you have the right to a common answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Boychev, Dear Mr. Svilenski, Dear Mr. Mikov, who is not present, Dear Mr. Lilkov! Thank you for your questions. I am pleased to have the opportunity to specify once again part of the parameters and requirements of the National Programme, which I have also had the opportunity to present to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly during the hearing and the decision taken to support this programme. I will start by asking the questions, starting with the question of Mr. Boychev and a group of MPs in relation to the balconies of the glass balconies, balconies that are built up, upgraded and so on. What we have clearly and categorically foreseen as a requirement in the programme comes from the possibilities and requirements provided by the Law for a structure in the territory, namely all balconies that have been glazed, respecting at that time the rules of construction, namely inconsolable, non-obtrusive gauge of the building and inconclusive of its construction as such, can be accepted and are adopted, according to the Law for a construction on the territory as tolerated constructions. This means that all of these apartment owners who have glazed their balconies or have incorporated these balconies, apart from glazing they also make one insulation, join these balconies into their kitchens, into their premises, will be able, receiving this mode of tolerance, this tolerance certificate as part of the overall building renovation project, they will also fall within the scope of funding of the programme. Including, if an old type window is installed, namely only an aluminium frame with glass, replace it with one that meets the requirements and the energy efficiency criteria, namely aluminium and PVC windows with the corresponding thermal bridge. As will be measured in the framework of the energy survey whether the insulation made on these balconies meets the energy efficiency class and, if necessary, within the framework of the programme's eligible funding, will be renewed, expanded and further isolated on these balconies. Of course, an important element is the inspection itself, the audit itself, the constructive audit of the building. The construction inspection and technical passport of the building will show this glazing of the balconies has led to a aggravation of the construction, endangers the construction of the balcony, creates a risk to those living and as part of the design itself, from the work, technical, investment project itself, which is being done, will be taken into account if further strengthening of this balcony or easing the construction is taken into account so that it does not protect those living in the building. In this way I think I also answer your question in general that: yes, the balconies, which are glazed, built-in, as long as they do not aggravate the structure, as long as they do not go beyond the dimensions of the building, because the facades are the ones that the municipality, by decision of the municipal council, accepts the general appearance, the general appearance of the buildings, so that when they are embedded in the overall vision, including the facade, the glass balconies can and will be accepted and funded within the programme. With regard to the second issue of tax preferences, in relation to the opportunities that the Local Taxes and Fees Act gives us at the moment, namely, when a building has made its overall energy efficiency with the own resources of the owners of this building, they receive tax relief and are respectively exempt from taxes for these renewed parts. What, in and within the framework of the decision adopted by the National Assembly to adopt the programme, in point 3, of this decision, we explicitly said and made a commitment to support the National Association of Municipalities in support of the proposal of all municipalities participating in the programme, namely to avoid a double tax preference. And then, when a building is renovated with public funding under the public energy efficiency programme, it is not subject to tax exemptions for those properties that have participated in the programme. What is to come is the Council of Ministers to adopt this amendment to the Local Taxes and Fees Act, which will enter into force as of January 2016 respectively, because from next year we will actually have to pay taxes for 2015. There is no problem in this regard with the implementation of the programme and those who have received funding under the public programme will not be exempt from taxes. For everyone else, however, this preference is also an opportunity for those who wish to do so by their own means or who have done so by their own means. This offer will remain. With regard to the issue of the property tax assessment and the potential tax increase respectively, no doubt any citizen, whether under the public programme or by his own means he has renovated or sanitized his residence, must declare it in the municipality of residence and this updates the tax assessment and increases the value of his property. From the point of view of tax increases, this leads to a minimal increase in taxes, because according to at least the established rates and values, according to the methodology and software programs that are currently applying municipalities, tests that have been carried out for Sofia and Blagoevgrad show an increase of an average of 1.50 to 3 BGN. an increase in the tax payable for the property concerned. So this is accepted within the normal tax increase. The third question concerns the number of apartments as a minimum, as an application criterion in the program. What we have said is that given that most of the multi-family residential buildings panel type are located in the territory of the 28 district cities, where more than 80% of this type of buildings are located, our desire, our incentive after an analysis of the building fund was in the first year to stimulate the largest buildings, to start with the oldest and largest buildings, as they have a huge need and the most difficult floor property can be collected for them to participate in the programme, and from the next year to January 2016, they will be able to participate in the programme and all other buildings, including those under 36 apartments. This was the basis of the decision to make a time division. In no way will this lead to discrimination, as everyone will have the opportunity to apply literally in a few months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u251	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP... [[Replying from the hall]] I'm sorry, I'm looking at 2:00, and I'm trying to get through one more question. The first line is Mr. Boychev. I apologize, since I wanted to go through one more question, obviously we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u252	The last thing we can charge you with, Mr. Tsochev, is censorship. Thank you, Minister, for your concern and the effort to include a maximum number of Bulgarian citizens in the National Sanitation Program. From what you have answered, I understand that you will try to apply a broad interpretation of the Law on Device in the Area and give a tolerance regime for this type of arrangement and glazing. However, my request to you is to sign these rules of the National Sanitation Program much more detail so that we do not fall into the following hypotheses. I can comment on one. It is clear from your reply that the floor property decides to apply, empowers the mayor, from then on begins the relevant procedures for conducting the energy audit. If this energy audit, as you claim, finds that certain constructions constructively violate the characteristics of the building, should essentially fall away from the renovation. [[Replicate from Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]] You said that the mode of tolerance would only include those that do not violate the building's structural changes. There's no way that any of the people who have that kind of built or glazed balconies would know that. We can get into a hypothesis in which floor property will apply and it will turn out that there are such types of structural changes or such illegal constructions that will not be able to make the building admissible. That's where the questions will come from. Does this mean that the entire residential building will have to be removed from the program? What will happen to the costs that have been incurred for this constructive investigation that needs to be done? At all, we can see a situation where there will be inequality and tension between the neighbors in a residential building. So my request is more detailed to sign all these hypotheses.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u253	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Lilkov, please come in for your reply within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your comprehensive response.. I am satisfied. I will only express some skepticism, without being a lawyer, that we may have a problem with making a decision by the National Assembly with regard to tax relief, after the floor property has concluded a contract and the sanitization is fulfilled. As far as the tax benefits are concerned, that's my guess. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u255	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, you have the right to a common duplicate within four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Boychev, you misinterpreted my statement. What I said is that the Law on Construction of the Area provides a regime for when there is a glazing of a balcony when there is upgrade or isolation and inclusion of the balconies within the housing of the owners, they are to be in this mode of tolerance. This, of course, does not in any way mean that the municipality concerned at the location of the property will have to allow if the owner of the property has upgraded or built this balcony, but we have seen such cases.... two or three meters ahead, and has further aggravated the construction of the balcony or the building. On the other hand, when carrying out the technical and constructive investigation and not the energy audit in this case, the constructors will assess whether what is built, upgraded or upgraded in this balcony is aggravating the construction and what part of it must be taken within the project, within the framework of the funding, so that the balcony can respond and not endanger, not be constructively dangerous to those living in the building, respectively, for those living in the apartment. The municipalities have a commitment through their teams, which will work together with the constructors, with the designers and architects, to propose such an architectural solution so that the balcony can fit into the vision, in the common facade, including taking the necessary measures to bring it into its safe parameters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u257	What if the man doesn't want to?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u258	If the person does not want and wants to live in a dangerous home or inhabit a balcony that is dangerous to him and his family, I hope that there are no such people who will endanger their lives and the lives of their family. However, this does not lead to the removal of the building itself from overall funding. On the contrary, it leads to constructive changes and to the necessary construction and installation activities to ensure that the building is safe. After all, the objective of the Programme is to first make buildings constructively sustainable and extend their lives, and only then reach the energy renovation stage of this building in order to achieve the specified characteristics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-13.u259	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Fourteen hours and one minute is the end of the day. Due to the expiry of the working day, I close today's meeting and announce on Wednesday, 18 March 2015, at 9:00 a.m. regular meeting of the National Assembly. [[PHONE RINGING]]
