ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Abort registration. The next attempt at 11:15 p.m. Opened at 11:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u2	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of Parliament, the agenda for this plenary extraordinary sitting was adopted on Friday as part of the points in today's programme were also included in the agenda for Friday. Due to the adoption after debate and vote, some of them are dropping out of today's programme, which is why I will recall what remains for our programme today in the extraordinary plenary sitting: 1. Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the Draft Amendment and Supplement Law on Air Cleanliness. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act. Importers Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Two messages: On 1 October 2015 the National Assembly was provided with the analysis adopted by the plenary session of the Economic and Social Council on the topic: the migration attitudes of the graduates of secondary education young people in Bulgaria. The document was developed on the basis of a survey conducted by the Economic and Social Council covering over 2130 students from all over the country ending their education in 2015. The material is presented to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. On 2 October 2015, an updated annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. The updated annual programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the Members of the National Assembly. We're moving to point one for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCESS TO PUBLIC INFORMATION. Report of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Mrs. Marinska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u3	Dear Madam President, please allow them to enter the Chamber of Anton Ginev "Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications," and Krasimira Stoyanova "Head of the Department of Legal Affairs" at the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u4	Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u5	At its regular meeting held on 28 May 2015, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015 In the meeting took part: Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Janeta Rogova Head of the Legal Department. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. In its reasoning when presenting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access to Public Information, it was noted that the changes were related to the introduction of requirements of the amended directive on the reuse of the information. It has been in force since 2013. Also with some changes concerning the general regime for access to public information aimed at providing more information from public sector bodies. The scope of application of the Law is extended with the inclusion of some cultural institutions such as libraries, including university ones, museums, archives. The possibility of free provision of reusable information at the discretion of public sector organisations shall be provided. An upper limit of the fee is established to be paid for the reuse of the information, and it is important to note here that this fee will not exceed the material costs of the reproduction of the information and its provision. The requirement is introduced for public sector bodies to provide information on re-use in open and machine readable format and to publish it in the open data portal. The possibility of access to public information may also be made electronically upon request of the applicant without requiring an electronic signature. By removing the electronic signature requirement, we believe that access to public information will be greatly facilitated and will increase transparency in the work of administrations upon request of the public sector. A new form shall be introduced to provide access to public information by means of copies provided by electronic means or by an internet address to store the data subject to the relevant interest. The administration of the Council of Ministers shall be established and maintained a platform for access to public information by which applications for access to such information may be submitted. In this platform, public authorities will publish, in addition to the applications submitted, the decisions on them and the public information provided. Each head of administrative structure in the executive will annually announce a list of categories of information to be published on the Internet for the field of activity of the administration concerned and the information to be changed in the relevant administration will be updated within 3 working days. Last but not least, the administration of the Council of Ministers will create a portal for open data, in which the information is updated annually, and access to this information will be free of charge. Under the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, an opinion was received by the Foundation...... access to information... that the bill was created with the very active participation of non-governmental organizations in the summer of 2014, when the working group was formed as well. It is also stated that the draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers introduces the European Directive 2013/37 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98 EC on the reuse of information in the public sector. This is also a serious step with regard to access to information, because this is where electronic access is strengthened. An electronic application shall be made available without requiring an electronic signature, which will solve many problems in practice and will greatly facilitate the receipt of information. The Public Council of the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints has delivered its opinion, supported by over 150 organisations, that the Commission should support the Draft at first reading. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed their opinion that they supported the proposals for amendments to the Bill. In their speeches, they expressed their readiness to submit texts for editorials on specific texts. Following a vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, with 12 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Grozdan Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will introduce you to the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015. The draft Law was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 27 May 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act introduces the provisions of Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the reuse of information in the public sector. The Law extends the scope of application of the Public Information Act with the inclusion of some cultural institutions, such as libraries, including university libraries, museums and archives. The bill provides for an obligation for each head of administrative structure in the executive power to annually announce a list of categories of information to be published on the Internet for the field of activity of the administration concerned, and also lays down the time limits for updating the published information and formats in which it is available. The order and manner of publication of the information will be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. We will now hear the report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Who's gonna give us the report? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u9	Madam President, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015. At its regular meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Communications, Ms. Zheneta Rogova, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs, as well as Mr. Vasil Velichkov and Mrs. Kalina Cherneva, Counsellors to the Political Office of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration; Mrs. Nusha Ivanova and Mr. Iskren Ivanov from the Directorate of Administration of the Council of Ministers. I. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act (CIP) aims to transpose the requirements of Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the reuse of information in the public sector. II. This Public Information Access Act was adopted in 2000 and defines as public any information relating to public life in the Republic of Bulgaria and enables citizens to make their own opinions about the activities of public authorities and other public bodies. In 2007, the Law was amended in order to determine the conditions and arrangements for the provision of information for reuse, as laid down in Directive 2003/98/EC. A distinction has been introduced between the two modes of use of information and the different objectives for which this information is sought. Reuse concerns information from the public sector which is used for commercial or non-commercial purposes other than the initial purpose for which it was established under the powers or functions of a public sector organisation (Art. 2a of the ADA). III. Directive 2013/37/EU amends Directive 2003/98/EC by making substantial changes as a detailed definition of exemptions from the regime of re-use of information, extending the circle of mandatory entities with the inclusion of museums, libraries and archives, establishing a more detailed regulation of standards and procedures for determining re-use fees. This bill aims to transpose these provisions by establishing an upper limit of the fee to be paid for the reuse of information and not exceeding the material costs of reproduction and the provision of information. The issue of a methodology by the Council of Ministers is also envisaged to further regulate the pricing principle. IV. The proposed changes encourage public organisations to provide information in an open, machine-readable format together with relevant metadata to comply with official open standards. The bill also aims to facilitate multilingual search for documents and electronic access to public information. For this purpose, it is proposed that any information from the public sector established after 1 October 2015 be maintained in electronic form. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u10	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. We remain to hear the report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u11	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 14 May 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 April 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and civil organisations took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act introduces the provisions of Directive 2013/37/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 amending Directive 2003/98/EC on the reuse of information in the public sector. The amendments and additions provide that documents falling within the scope of the Directive are to be made available for reuse under the conditions of reuse laid down in the Directive. An upper limit of the fee to be paid for the reuse of information not exceeding the material costs of reproduction and the provision of information shall be established. The exceptions to this rule follow the directive and are clearly defined. The draft Law provides that the fees for the public authorities are to be determined as ever by a tariff adopted by the Council of Ministers. In compliance with the rules of local self-government, the fees collected by municipalities shall be determined by the relevant municipal council in compliance with the principle of limiting the costs of reproduction and the provision of information. Such is the authorisation for other public sector organisations. There is a legal possibility for free provision of reusable information at the discretion of the public sector organisation. The scope of application with the inclusion of some cultural institutions, such as libraries, including university libraries, museums and archives, is extended. Those institutions shall be subject to specific rules differing from those applicable to other entities, including charges. Changes relating to national practice and peculiarities, including any public sector information established after 1 October 2015, to be maintained electronically; the possibility of access to public information to be made electronically upon request of the applicant; a new form of access to public information In the committee were presented opinions by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and by the Foundation................................................................................................ Opinions and proposals from representatives of the Movement were also expressed. In the course of the discussion, the speakers supported the amendments proposed by the Draft Law, with attention to the need to take into account the proposals made by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and by the Foundation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes,...................................................... and 4 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u12	Thank you. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! We, with our colleagues from the Reformation bloc, will support these proposals. As you have heard, they transpose European directives, they are really useful and may be somewhat late. I want to tell you something else. In fact, the Law on Access to Public Information is very important for civil society. For me, this is actually their instrument of parliamentary control, that is, what we MPs can do in the order of parliamentary control, this is what citizens do in the order of this Law. Therefore, the changes must be encouraged so that there can be no state or municipal authorities or companies subject to such authorities and that they refuse public information, and such precedents are not lacking. One of the key things of this Law is that it is possible, in accordance with the order of the appeal, that by means of this mechanism of coercion, such unscrupulous persons or bodies to be forced to provide this information. I'll give you a very fresh example here. If you remember, my colleague Martin Dimitrov and I asked the Minister of Finance about the salary of the former head of the Bulgarian National Bank. He came out here and from this tribune said that there was no information, after which we, in the order of this Law, in all its imperfections at the moment, asked such a question to the new President of the Bulgarian National Bank and received a refusal, after which we brought a case and since then almost every week we have received official messages from the Bulgarian National Bank with information on this topic. So all of a sudden, they're very friendly and agreeable, but you see what had to happen in order for this to happen. So it is really worth supporting these changes. Even between the two readings, with colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and, on the idea to a large extent, of NGOs, we will submit further proposals for changes so that no longer, as I have already mentioned, state or municipal authorities, i.e. companies in which a municipality or state has fifty-fifty percent participation, refuse to provide public information with fictional motives and directly circumvent the Law. That is, clearly, in black and white, there to be a record that they are obliged to provide this information and not to justify that it was a commercial activity or an activity outside their subsidy from the state budget and so on. I think this should also be supported, but this will now be between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u14	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u15	Thank you, Madam President. The law on access to public information is indeed an extremely important and valuable law. Moreover, this Law is an instrument for combating corruption. My fellow Members, I'm addressing you for a reason. However, sadly, the presented bill continues to contain its vices, and more so, it also reproduces new ones. First, a strange concept of a material document is introduced. By the way, I keep one of the importers to stand up and explain in which norm, which legal document, which law contains this unknown concept of a material document. I was hoping to see it as an explanation in the Additional Provisions of the Bill, but, alas, it's missing too. So, first, we need to get an answer to this question: what is this miracle a material document? In addition, honourable Members, a very strange new vice is being introduced. In order to gain access to public information, you will have to study its new internal rules to each public organisation, as this Bill now provides for each public organisation to draw up internal rules for access to public information. What is this miracle? We will adopt a law, and then some internal rules will amend the Law as they are comfortable with it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u16	They will be in accordance with the law, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u17	Please don't interrupt me. [[Radio.]] This means that you cannot in any way access such information. The other serious vice remains, and I am telling you this from experience, because many times I have asked for access to public information, I should normally have come to court and the most interesting thing is that even after a judgment I still did not receive it. Why? Because there is another concept, a description of the information that you want. However, you have no chance to describe the information for the simple reason I will give you an example: firstly, you want to control the proper use of European funds under a specific European programme. In order to carry out this control, you need to get the so-called Q-value account, which in some cases represents 70, 80, 100, 200, 300 pages and you need to describe each individual item. Only you have to be some kind of magician to know what each feather contains on this quantitative-value account. Because practice shows that it is not enough to write that you want a quantitative-value account. This vice continues to exist in this Law and in this proposal, that is, you will have no chance as a civil organisation, as an active citizen, even as a MP, of getting the desired public information. Be assured that this particular one will not be uploaded to any site, because in art. 31 The other terrible vice continues to exist. This terrible vice is: imagine a third person who handles, operates public funds, with European funds under operational programmes, you see, decided that he did not want to provide this information. What are you doing from there? There is nothing more you can do, because even in the proposed Bill para. 4 reproduces in exactly the same way. From there comes the question: is this Law still good, does it really respond to the European directive, which actually says that citizens must have absolute, normal, unobtrusive access to any kind of public information that enables them to carry out their civil control? I think it is not responding, and it is only well veiled that we are synchronising the Law with the relevant European directive. More than that. I ask: since citizens in their controlling activities in most cases do the work of investigative bodies and save a lot of costs, why is it necessary for citizens to pay for this public information? I also ask: how many times have you bothered to comply with the fees with art. 2 of the State Fees Act, which says that the fee should not exceed the cost, the costs in this service? It turns out that the provision of public information makes even a profit, and citizens have to pay serious amounts when they have to receive huge packages of documents in many cases. So the big question arises: will this law benefit, will it be a working mechanism for really implementing effective civil control, or will it continue to act with the same vices with new ones added to it? Here's the big question. I personally will not support this Bill, because it reproduces everything old, but unfortunately the evil practice in one year has already taught me that whatever you propose in the second vote, it is not accepted because, you see, everything is good, useful, very good, but we will not accept it, as happened with the changes in the Energy Act. Now there I will present you very soon the whole package of documents to see what you have created as MPs, but this is in a subsequent period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u18	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I will support the Bill at first reading with the clear awareness that the latest amendments to the relevant European directives are being adopted and that access to public information is being improved in general. However, between first and second reading there are some cases that need to be cleaned up. I'll give you a few examples. Currently, my colleague Slavov and I have two cases for access to public information. One is against the BNB, which provided partial information, but until now did not answer the most important question, namely what were the salaries and bonuses in BNB before the case for KTB, i.e. for the first half of 2014. What did not partial information provide us, including public, but the question was not answered. So there is a need to refine the Law so as not to give partial information but to respond in the necessary entirety and accordingly to sanctions when the full information is not provided. Another more interesting case is our request for access to public information, which we have sent to the Commission for Protection of Competition. We've also requested the salaries and bonuses. They do not give us any information, notice with what argument they say this was personal data and therefore do not respond. However, we are also doing a case there, and I believe that given the fact and one of the last amendments to this Law, when we, the blues, introduced the so-called "supervising public interest" which means that when one information is of public benefit and public interest, it cannot be a business secret or a business secret, and I believe that we will get to the truth here too. I am most interested in the third case when it comes to subsidiaries, often the principal says that he does not have the necessary information. I will never forget again our question with colleague Slavov, which we made to the Ministry of Energy then regarding South Stream. The ministry replied that the Ministry of Economy and Energy then, during the time of Prime Minister Oresharski and Minister Dragomir Stoinev, there is no information about I mean, if you don't understand me, colleagues, they didn't have any information on the subject, they didn't know anything about it. But we, as people who have faced such answers many times, have requested an inventory of the documentation contained in the Ministry of Economy and Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u20	Mr. Dimitrov, please specify on the Law, not to say about bad practices with a view to obtaining information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u21	Quite specific. What we need to change, because in the end we have received information thanks to the good experience we have gained in such responses, but the principal cannot not disclose information about a subsidiary and answer that he does not have this data. He'll ask for them and answer. On the other hand, when the subsidiary is not subject to this Law and it cannot be questioned, it becomes an enchanted circle. These questions, honourable Members, we must resolve them. Because good access to public information is ultimately in European practice one of the strongest arguments for combating corruption. When state organizations and services know that by their actions they will be questioned and will provide this public information to anyone who wishes to have it, they are much more aware of compliance with the legislation and are careful about what they are doing. They know that they are subject to public control. So I call on you to support this Bill at first reading and between first and second votes, to further refine and extend the possibility of public control over the state. Because that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u22	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Mrs. Yankova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, the submitted Bill on Access to Public Information by the Council of Ministers transposes a European directive on the reuse of information and on the reuse of business and citizens. It was good that all of us in the committees in which we debated, and in the debate that is now going on in this House, we found that there is an open question which, in this bill, does not find its solution. I think that between first and second readings we are obliged to make improvements in the following direction. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, § 14, is the question: what is this...................... and commercial and industrial secrecy............................................................................. Undoubtedly, the lawyers in the word game, taking advantage of the possibilities that it refers to the Commercial Law, that it refers to the Law on Protection of Competition, if we leave the issue as unsolved as it is proposed in the Bill, the public authorities of which spoke to all negotiators are under one pressure. You get a request for information, you ask the partner, so he says it's a manufacturing, commercial or industrial secret, so they can be interpreted differently. This is a waste of time and pressure on the public authorities, whether they are state, or local, tensions and expectation of opaqueness are created. The bill itself has good sides. The good countries are in terms of the fact that the re-use is free of charge, that it is expanding access to libraries, museums, archives, but ultimately the bill itself, the fact that it enters Parliament and enters into debate in all committees and today it is in a hall at first reading, perhaps between first and second readings we will use as a parliamentary group to make a proposal to make the regime easier, to be more accessible information, to be more open to local authorities and not to use the interests of traders to hide the local authorities. I am aware of what the reformers colleagues have said, that when they have already gone to court and are talking about a dominant public interest, the court will say yes, open and say is this information or is it not. In the society we live in, we believe that everything must be open and transparent. It is necessary that we, as a national representation and representatives of the Council of Ministers, give between first and second reading something that will be much better for the citizens of Bulgaria for publicity in the action of the authorities, and therefore for that interpretation, which will give peace that the local authorities will not be under the pressure of the business, traders and, respectively, of the civic interest. That is why I wanted to draw your attention, because I believe that once again, if we silence this issue, it will remain closed, unresolved and we will wait for some other things, and people and the non-governmental sector will go to the carousels and court cases. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Any lines to Mrs. Yankova? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I can't see. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the Public Information Access Act, No 502-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLEANNESS OF ATMOSFER AIR. There is a report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. To prepare the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, then the Regional Commission, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. The resumes, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote the admission procedure in the plenary of Mr. Boyko Malinov.. Deputy Minister of Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u26	We vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guest. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u27	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. At its regular meeting on 2 July 2015, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Water attended the meeting: Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva Minister, Mr. Boyko Malinov Deputy Minister and experts from the Ministry. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Ivelina Vassileva. Main objectives of the Bill: Transposition requirements of Directive 2012/33/EC amending Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels, and the intended changes shall determine the persons who make the relevant notifications to the authorities of the Executive Agency of the Sea and to the European Commission about the presence or absence of marine fuels in the ports of the country in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 8, para. 1 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Penalties for infringements committed by ship fuel distributors shall be introduced. Secondly, ensuring the implementation and control of the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 for fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No 842/2006, identifying those responsible for setting up and/or adapting certification and training programmes, establishing reporting systems under the Regulation and updating enforcement administrative measures, fines and penalty payments. In addition, updating and clarifying terminology and provisions regarding emissions from fixed sources, as well as establishing a legal basis for introducing emission limit value regulations in accordance with the best available techniques conclusions adopted by a decision of the European Commission on industrial emissions and repealing current provisions. There is also a legal opportunity for municipal councils to adopt measures to reduce air pollution, which have not been applied in the country and are not present in the measures of municipal programs under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. The expectations of the implementation of the Bill are related to: - harmonisation and alignment with the European legislation and suspension of the initiated infringement procedure No 2014/0308 against the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as the fulfilment of obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to introduce national measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No 842/2006; - establishing a legal basis for the introduction into the regulations of emission limit values corresponding to the best available techniques conclusions; - reduction of the administrative burden with regard to the requirement to submit different types of information; - taking additional measures to reduce air pollution by the municipal authorities and implementing amendments and additions to the Biodiversity Act relating to the implementation of two new EU regulations. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Borislav Velikov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Manol Genov. People's representatives Stanislav Ivanov and Chavdar Georgiev, as well as representatives of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Vasileva and Mr. Angelov answered the questions raised in the speeches, after which the President closed the debates and put to the vote the draft to be discussed. After the vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 15 votes for..................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015 Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Who will read the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Stock Exchange? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova. I'm going to ask you for a summary of the report, because there are four more reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! "COMMODITY" on a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. At a meeting held on 8 July 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Ivan Angelov, Director of the Department of Air Cleanliness in the Ministry of Environment and Water. This bill aims to transpose part of the requirements of Directive 2012/63/EU amending Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards sulphur content in marine fuels. The objectives of the bill include the establishment of conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 for fluorocarbons and repealing Regulation (EC) No 842/2006. The application of additional measures to reduce air pollution is of particular importance given the reasoned opinion of the European Commission concerning infringement 2010/2109 on the violation of the limit values of Directive 2008/52/EC for fine, particulate matter content in the ambient air. By means of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the IDE Project of the Air Cleanliness Act, amendments and additions to the Biodiversity Act relating to the application of two new European Union Regulations are proposed: Regulation No 511/2014 on measures for compliance by users arising from the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and fair and equal sharing of benefits arising from their use in the Union and Regulation No 1143/2014 on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. In view of the above and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds with 13 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 23 July 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The proposed changes are aimed at transposing requirements of Council Directive 2012/33/EU amending Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards sulphur content in marine fuels. The amendments and additions to the Law define the persons who make the relevant notifications to the authorities of the Executive Agency "Maritime Administration" and to the European Commission about the presence or absence of marine fuels in the country's ports. Penalties for infringements committed by ship fuel distributors shall be introduced, the application and control of the requirements of Regulation (EU) No are ensured for greenhouse gases containing fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No 842/2006 by determining the persons responsible for the establishment and/or adaptation of certification and training programmes. The establishment of reporting systems under the Regulation and updating of forced administrative measures, fines and property penalties is envisaged. The terminology and provisions relating to emissions from fixed sources shall be updated and the provisions relating to emission from fixed sources shall be clarified and legal basis established for the introduction into the regulations of emission limit values corresponding to the conclusions on best available techniques adopted by a decision of the European Commission in the field of industrial emissions. There is also a legal opportunity for municipal councils to adopt measures to reduce air pollution, which have not been applied in the country and are not present in the measures of municipal programs under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. The expectations of the implementation of the bill are related to bringing national legislation into line with the European legislation and suspending the initiated infringement procedure No 2014/0308 against the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With the adoption of the amendments to the Law, it is also expected to reduce the administrative burden with regard to the requirement to submit different types of information. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing principle support for the proposed changes, while making concrete proposals on separate provisions of the Bill. The members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government supported the need to adopt the proposed Draft. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the 14-vote vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government proposes to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Air Cleanliness Act, No 502 01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The President of the Commission is the People's Representative Grozdan Karadjov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 8 July 2015, a bill was discussed to amend and supplement the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill amending and supplementing the Air Cleanliness Act concerns harmonisation and alignment of national legislation by transposing part of the requirements of Council Directive 2012/63/EC amending Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards sulphur content in marine fuels and, as a consequence, reducing emissions of sulphur oxides from the maritime transport sector. The envisaged changes shall identify the persons who make the relevant notifications to the authorities of the Executive Agency "Maritime Administration" and to the European Commission about the presence or absence of marine fuels in the ports of the country in accordance with the requirements of the Ordinance under art. 8, para. 1 of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, and the order and manner of these notifications is intended to be arranged by order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency "Maritime Administration." In addition, penalties shall be introduced for infringements committed by ship fuel distributors. The other requirements of the Directive have been transposed by Decree No 327 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 amending and supplementing the Regulation on the requirements for the quality of liquid fuels, the conditions, the procedures and the way they control the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act. The adoption of the bill will stop the initiation of infringement procedure No 2014/0308 against the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the non-transposing of the Directive. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously, with 15 votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u34	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Who from the Commission will present it? Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u35	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. At a regular meeting held on 15 July 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Boyko Malinov On behalf of the importer, the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Boyko Malinov. The main objective of the Bill is the transposition of the requirements of EU Directive 2012/33 as well as the application and enhancement of controls, as required by Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 for fluorocontaining greenhouse gases and the repeal of Regulation (EU) No 842/2006. The legal terminology has been revised and the suspension of current provisions is envisaged. In addition to the existing powers of the Ministry of Interior with regard to certification under the current Law on Air Cleanliness, it is also possible to strengthen control and signalling functions when detecting violations. Measures are also provided for to reduce the pollution of atmospheric air cleanness and with the legal opportunity to take concrete action by local authorities. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Yordanova, I see that you are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u37	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. The bill was presented by Mr. Boyko Malinov Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. Objectives of the Bill: transposition of requirements of Directive 2012/33/EC amending Council Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels, and the intended changes shall determine the persons who make the relevant notifications to the authorities of the Executive Agency of the Sea and to the European Commission of the presence or absence of marine fuels in the ports of the country in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 8, para. 1 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Penalties shall be introduced for infringements committed by ship fuel distributors, the application and control of the requirements of the Regulation with the identification of responsible persons for the establishment and/or adaptation of certification and training programmes, the establishment of reporting systems under the Regulation and the updating of forced administrative measures, fines and penalty payments, updating and clarifying terminology and provisions regarding emissions from stationary sources, and the establishment of a legal basis for the introduction into the regulations of emission limit values corresponding to the conclusions of best available techniques adopted by a decision of the European Commission on emissions from industry and the repeal of earlier obsolete provisions. There is also a legal opportunity for municipal councils to adopt measures to reduce air pollution, which have not been applied in the country and are not present in the measures of municipal programs under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. The expectations of the implementation of the Bill are related to: - harmonisation and alignment with the European legislation and suspension of the initiated infringement procedure No 2014/0308 against the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to introduce national measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No 842/2006; - establishing a legal basis for the introduction into the regulations of emission limit values corresponding to the conclusions on best available techniques adopted by a decision of the European Commission and as a result of the improved air quality and updating of legislation by repealing or correcting certain obsolete and obsolete provisions; - reduction of the administrative burden with regard to the requirement to submit different types of information; - taking additional measures to reduce air pollution by the municipal authorities and implementing amendments and additions to the Biodiversity Act relating to the implementation of two new EU regulations. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee supported the proposed Draft. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva has the word for the opinion of the person responsible. Here you are, Minister Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, undoubtedly an important bill relating to the quality of the air, directly related to ensuring the healthy environment for all citizens of Bulgaria. I am grateful for the support of the phase "Discussion in the Committees" and hope for the support of the Members of the National Assembly for this Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Air Cleanliness Act, as the expected results of its implementation are as follows. Firstly, and above all, harmonised and brought into line with European legislation, national legislation by transposing the requirements of the Directives relating to sulphur content in marine fuels and by reducing emissions of sulphur oxides from the maritime transport sector. Second, fulfilled obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to introduce national measures with a view to ensuring the implementation of the fluorocarbons regulation and repealing Regulation No 842 of 2006. Third, a legal basis for introducing emission limit values regulations in accordance with the conclusions on best available techniques adopted by a decision of the European Commission and as a result of an improved air quality. In addition, a reduced administrative burden regarding the requirement to submit different types of information, as well as additional measures taken to reduce air pollution by the municipal authorities and to stop the infringement procedure against Bulgaria for overweight particulate matter to go into a judicial phase. The Law creates a legal opportunity through the specialized Law for municipal councils to take additional measures to reduce air pollution. This is extremely important given Bulgaria's commitment to tackle the main challenge we are facing, related to the quality of the air, namely the overnormal levels of active particulate matter. At present, there is a positive trend in reducing the number of excesses of the mid-day limit for fine particulate matter and the annual average concentration of fine particulate matter in the ambient air. These results are a step in the right direction, but further efforts are needed by all who, in one way or another, relate to the problem in order to achieve the requirements laid down by law. In order to maintain the tendency to reduce levels, funds are also provided under operational programmes to assist municipalities in implementing specific measures in their municipal programmes. This Bill is another step and an opportunity for municipalities to use European funds, to make use of the opportunities to apply modern methods to improve the state and quality of the atmospheric air in the municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u40	Thank you, Minister Vasileva. Dear colleagues, debate regime. Anyone who wants to make a statement? The People's Representative Borislav Veliev has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, such a good one and, I would say, a relatively indisputable bill, and not a single statement on the substance, would be disrespectful to our minister, who still respects us here, unlike many other ministers who do not always do so. Now get to the point. I have three notes I'd like to make. If the Minister wishes, she may take an attitude or at some point next, during the second vote in the Commission. Here, in art. 9 An obligation of the Council of Ministers or of the Minister of Environment and Water, together with the other ministers, to establish emission standards for harmful substances in the atmosphere shall be imposed. There is a certain question here that arises. There is no distinction between when the regulation will be adopted by the Council of Ministers, when the minister, how the cases will be distinguished. In the Act in force, it seems that it is only the Minister's duty, and here is the rank of the regulation. If there is a reason, of course, it is good, but it is good to be clear when the Council of Ministers will intervene, perhaps in a separate text, if it is judged by the Ministry that this is reasonable. What was also mentioned in Minister Vasileva's exhibition is also to be welcomed. 28a, which gives the municipal councils the right to introduce restrictive measures regarding air pollution with fine particulate matter in particular. I would remind honourable Members that fine dust particles are those particles in the air that are hard to spot and with the naked eye, as their size is less than 2.5 micrometers or with the old dimension unit of dimension, of 2,5 microns, can also penetrate the alveoli all the way into the circulation and cause a lot of suffering, so it is good that municipal councils can introduce such restrictive measures, especially in relation to this criminal procedure. What do we mean that not all municipal councils act as one, even when it comes to something outpartisan and unripe in some political colors? There are contradictions very often. Whether this would be an obstacle to a timely solution and whether the mayor could have this power with some internal co-ordination procedure, so that it would not possibly be cumbersome and difficult to achieve the majority in some municipal council. The last thing I think I mentioned at the Commission's meeting, but I would also like to make a slight remark here as regards this extensive amendment to the Biodiversity Act, which is inserted into the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Amendment Act and Appendix to the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act. I assume that it may have been in a hurry because of some regulations or so on, but still preventing and managing the introduction and spread of invasive alien species sounds too different from the clean air, and maybe it shouldn't be here. Either way, this has been done, and we of the Reformation bloc will support the bill of first voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u42	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. A line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. Please let the Quaestors invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter into voting mode. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting at first reading on a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Air Cleanliness, No 502-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2015. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The bill was passed at first reading. Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva, for participating in today's parliamentary day. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS. The bill is with importers Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov from 4 June 2015. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The President of the Commission Mr. Grozdan Karadjov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Anton Ginev to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u44	Voting regime for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Anton Ginev. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the Quaestors to invite Mr. Deputy Minister Ginev to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Road Transport, No 554-01-110, submitted by the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov on 4 June 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 17 June 2015, a Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act was discussed, No 554-01-110, submitted by the MPs Tsvetomir Mihov and Ivan Valkov on 4 June. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by the MP Tsvetomir Mihov. The draft Law amending the Road Transport Act proposes that the taxi transport of passengers should only be carried out by traders holding registration certificates. Mr. Mihov explained that according to the current text of art. 12, para. 1 of the Road Transport Act, a taxi transport of passengers may be carried out by traders holding registration certificates or by drivers operating on behalf of a registered carrier but on their own account. The Law also provides for the registration of persons carrying out taxi transports of passengers as a condition for carrying out their activities. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications said that they supported the Bill and explained to the members of the Commission that the State had regulated this activity by establishing conditions and arrangements for its implementation by means of the Law and regulations. It has been stressed that the administrative authority checks the existence of comprehensive regulatory requirements and, when establishing compliance with them, authorises, without discretion where appropriate, the conduct of the business. During the discussion by the importers, it was argued that the submitted Bill would also remove the difficulty in carrying out the control of compliance with the requirements of the Law. It has also been stressed that, in the current situation, persons who carry out taxi transport of passengers are placed in a disadvantage to one another, some of them have to meet the requirements laid down by the Law and register, while others are carrying out this activity without registering. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 15 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u46	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. An opinion from the importer? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be as brief as possible. My colleague Valkov and I have introduced the amendments to the Car Transport Act. The President of the Commission has also read part of the reasons and the discussion in the Commission. Just to remind you that the amendments to the Law were adopted by a full majority, and there was no opposition to the Law. All colleagues were convinced of the need for a change in the Road Transport Act and rather the part that regulates the relationship between the so-called Transporter and Driver when it comes to taxi transport, because the current legislation is not clear the responsibility and we all see what happens when we do not know who is responsible. Competent authorities shall find it difficult to impose any penalties or penalties. In fact, the legislation currently allows an entity to obtain a licence for a taxi ride and pass it on to a self-insured driver, and hence the responsibility is being washed away. With the change we make in art. 24, para. 1, we already allow taxi transport to be carried out only by persons who are registered as such traders and have a license. They have no right to hand over their license. It's the shortest. Once again, the bill was adopted unanimously in the Commission. If there are any questions, we're here with colleague Valkov to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Dear colleagues, debate regime. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate and we're going into voting mode. Dear colleagues, we are voting at first reading Draft Law amending the Law on Road Transport, No 554-01-110, submitted by Tsvetomir Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov and Ivan Stefanov Valkov on 4 June 2015. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously at first reading was adopted the Law amending the Law on Road Transport. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 87, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the bill amending the Law on Road Transport, which was adopted at first reading shortly before, be considered at second reading as it was unanimously voted in the Commission and was voted in the Chamber as well. We are talking about two paragraphs, which are basically the same text. There are no proposals made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u50	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to move to the second reading of the Draft Law amending the Car Transport Act. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u51	The Law on Road Transport is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u52	Colleagues, we vote on the name of the Law amending the Law on Road Transport, second reading. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u53	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 after the word "Receiving', the text to the end shall be deleted. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 the words or by drivers engaged in the activity on behalf of a registered carrier, but at their own expense, the words shall be deleted. Final provision. § 3. The law shall enter into force one month after its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u54	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote § 1, § 2, and the Final provision -§ 3, from the paragraphs just presented to us by Mr. Valkov of the Draft Law amending the Law on Road Transport. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. With this, the Law was passed at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVE DISCLOSURES AND DELEGATION. The bill is number 502-01-19. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u55	Mr. President, honourable Members, I present to your attention a Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 502-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015. The Law on Administrative Violations and Penaltys is amended and supplemented by the Law on Administrative Violations and Penaltys. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Yavor Notev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83a The following 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words. 162, para. 1 and 2 164, para. 1 and a comma is added after the number 3, 248a " and a comma' is added, the number "s' is deleted, after the number "s'255a "s' is added, the number "s' is deleted and the number "s' is added after the number "s' is "sixty' is added "sixty' and the number "sixty' is added, and the number "sixty' is deleted and the number "sixty' is added "sixty' is added. (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." a worker or an employee to whom the legal person has assigned a particular job where the crime is committed during or on the occasion of the performance of this work is imposed a penalty of up to BGN 1 000 000, but not less than the equivalent of the benefit when it is paid; a penalty of up to BGN 1 000 000 000. it is also necessary where the benefit is not of a property nature or the amount of the benefit cannot be established. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The property penalty shall also be imposed on a legal person who does not have a registered office in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria if the offence under para. 1 was carried out on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the word "perpetrator" is replaced by "participants in carrying out." 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: It shall be withdrawn in favour of the State which the legal person acquired directly or indirectly benefits from the offence under para. 1 if it is not to be returned or recovered or withdrawn under the order of the Penal Code. Where the property or property subject to the offence is missing or alienated, its value shall be awarded. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposals for the name of the Law and § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted. Paragraph 2, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, since I missed the start, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u58	Voting regime, fellow Members, for admission to the Chamber. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The Quaestors, please invite the Deputy Minister of Justice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u59	Paragraph 2? a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83b. (1) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words "the appropriate prosecutor to the administrative court" shall be amended by the prosecutor who is competent to examine the case or file of the relevant crime to the district court at the seat of the legal person and, in the cases referred to in art. 83a, para. 2 to the Sofia City Court. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the words the act shall be a comma and a statement shall be added with a proposal to exempt the persons from criminal liability by imposing an administrative penalty or an agreement to resolve the case in court. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 letters shall be created: (e) there is no grievance from the victim to the prosecutor in the cases of a general nature provided for in the special part of the Penal Code; (e) the child shall be exempt from criminal liability with the application of educational measures; (g) a transfer of criminal proceedings to another State has been made. 4. They're creating a t. 3 and 4: "3." where criminal proceedings are suspended on the grounds that: (a) after committing the offence, the accused has fallen into a short-term disorder of consciousness which precludes insanity or has any other serious illness preventing the conduct of the proceedings; (b) the examination of the case in the absence of the accused would prevent the objective truth from being disclosed; c) The child is a person with immunity. 4. after the entry into force of a decision under art. 124, para. 5 of the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are voting on the import text for § 2 in the version of the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u61	Paragraph 3? a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: Article 3 83d is amended as follows: Art. 83. (1) The Court in closed session shall rule by order by which: 1. return the proposal to the prosecutor when it is not motivated or does not meet the requirements of the law; 2. terminate the case where the legal person is removed from the trade register due to liquidation or bankruptcy. (2) The Court shall examine the proposal in the Chamber of a Judge at an open hearing with the participation of a prosecutor and with the call of the legal person. (3) The absence of a representative of the legal person, where the summoning is regular, shall not prevent the hearing. (4) The Court shall collect evidence in its own motion or at the request of the parties. (5) The Court shall examine the case and, on the basis of the evidence collected, shall assess: 1. has the legal person received an unlawful advantage; 2. is there a connection between the perpetrator of the criminal act and the legal person; 3. is there a connection between the criminal act and the tax on the legal person; 4. what is the type of the benefit and the amount if it is paid. (6) The Court of Justice shall rule by a decision which shall: 1. imposes a financial penalty; 2. refuses to impose a financial penalty. (7) The decision under para. 6, p. 1 contains: 1. the details of the legal person; 2. the details of the origin, type and amount of the benefit; 3. the amount of the penalty imposed; 4. a description of the property to be taken in favour of the State, if any; 5. fixing the costs. (8) In cases which are factual or legal complexity, the reasons may also be drawn up after the decision has been given, but not later than 30 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting § 3 by importer in the version of the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 67, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u63	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 83f is amended as follows: Art. 83f. (1) The proceedings in which a decision of the district or of the court of appeal has been brought into force shall be resumed where: 1. it has been found that some of the written evidence on the basis of which the act was issued is false or false; 2. it shall be established by a judgment or judgment that a judge, prosecutor, party or participant in the proceedings has committed a crime in connection with its participation in the proceedings; 3. after the entry into force of the decision imposing a financial penalty on the legal person, the person under art. 83a, para. 1, t. 1-4 shall be justified by the entry into force of a judicial act or the suspension of pre-trial proceedings shall be terminated by the prosecutor in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; 4. circumstances or evidence which were not known to the party and to the court and which are essential to the proceedings shall be disclosed after the entry into force of the decision; 5. a decision of the European Court of Human Rights has established a violation of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is essential for the case; 6. a substantial breach of procedural rules has been committed in the course of the proceedings. (2) The request for renewal may be made within six months of the knowledge of the basis and in the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 6 Since the entry into force of the decision of the district or of the court of appeal. (3) The request for renewal shall not suspend the enforcement of the decision entered into force unless the court decides otherwise. (4) A request for the reopening of proceedings may be made: 1. the district attorney; 2. the legal person to whom a penalty has been imposed. (5) The request for renewal shall be examined by the Court of Appeal in the judicial area in which the authority issuing the decision entered into force is located. (6) The Court of Appeal shall examine the request in a Chamber of three Judges. In cases where a re-trial is sought pursuant to a decision of the Court of Appeal, the request shall be examined by another Chamber of the Court of Appeal concerned. (7) The case shall be dealt with in an open session with the participation of a prosecutor. The legal person shall also be called for the hearing. (8) Where the Court of Appeal finds the request to resume the proceedings justified, it shall revoke the order and refer the case back to the case for retrial, indicating the procedural act from which the new hearing must begin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u64	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u66	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission for paragraphs 4 and 5, the name of the division Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u67	Mr President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I would like to rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u68	Thirty minutes of rest. Until 1:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u69	Dear colleagues, we are continuing today's session. Before the break, we reached § 9. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There's a vote coming up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u71	Are there any speeches, honourable Members of Parliament? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted. Before you introduce us, dear Mr. Kirilov, to the proposals for new paragraphs, a message. Today, October 6, 2015, has entered and is due to be distributed to the MPs A general draft of the Draft Laws for amendment and supplement to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code adopted at the first vote on 2 October 2015. The draft has been drawn up by the Budget and Finance Committee on the basis of art. 88, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Christian Mitev: A new § 10 shall be created with the following text: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 84 words are deleted and the current text becomes para. 1, by producing the following species: In so far as there are no specific rules in this law for summoning and serving subpoenas and communications, carrying out inventory and possession of items, calculating deadlines, and for the proceedings before the court for handling complaints against criminal orders of appeals before the administrative court and proposals for renewal, the provisions of the Criminal Code shall apply. The Commission does not support the proposal and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u73	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will briefly present these proposals with colleagues from the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Block and the next paragraph, as they are both linked. It is about the so-called costs in the proceedings where a citizen or a legal person has appealed an illegal act of the administration and it, respectively, cancels it. Unfortunately, at the moment, apart from the nerves that waste citizens in such processes and all the costs they incur in terms of involving themselves with a procedural representative, to pay property experts and so on, remains at their expense in the Zahn trial. You know that in the administrative process this is not the case, and there they are awarded to the country that made them when it proves the legality of its claim and, respectively, cancels the illegal act. Of course, the opposite is true: if a person has unduly appealed an administrative act, in the case of a criminal decree and has consequently lost the case, then the relevant administration will be able to recover the costs that it has done for a lawyer, whether for another in the process. Once upon a time, we had imported such things, and then the Chamber split up and almost reached the votes for support. So here I really appeal to all my colleagues, to all the groups to think carefully and really support these texts, because in practice they restore a justice that is often lacking in these legal proceedings. Here, to illustrate things more clearly and more clearly, I will tell you one more thing. Bear in mind that before what we had proposed, there were two main remarks. One was that a state appeal fee for many people said it should not be due in these proceedings, as this would hinder access to justice. We have taken that into account and this will not be due, i.e. these proceedings, as at the moment before the court, will remain free of charge with the agreement, however, that when the case and the losing party that lost it will have to pay the costs incurred in the budget of the judiciary. The other important thing that was reproached and unfortunately heard was that there were so many illegal acts of the administration which were annulled before a court that it would have negative consequences for it. I cannot accept this argument, and I think that the best medicine here is the administration simply to write less and, if possible, not to write illegal acts, which will accordingly not be cancelled. My main argument against this argument is that they have an opportunity under the order of the opposition which is lodged before it is brought to trial in these cases, that is, the citizen or the legal person has submitted an objection to the administration concerned and says: "People, you have issued an illegal act. Be so good as to correct it yourself, cancel it or as you think is right. However, if they do not do so and the person concerned is forced to go to court, then it seems fair to me that the way in which this is settled in the Administrative Procedure Code can be awarded his expenses. It is clear that the tired nerves and efforts remain at his expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Christian Mitev to create a new § 10 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 21, Against 6, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, come in for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u76	Mr. Chairman, there is a proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Christian Mitev to create a new § 11: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 84 is created a new para. 2 containing the following content: The rules of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to a judicial appeal for the determination and award of the costs of the parties, witnesses and remuneration of persons of interest for the judicial phase of the process. Against the unsuccessful party, the court also awards the state fee due in favour of the budget of the court concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u77	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Christian Mitev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 12, against 16, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 502-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015, was adopted on a second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF DIVERSITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015. Adopted in the first vote on 26 June 2015. Mr. Atanasov, come in for the report. The Chair of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee shall report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on the Protection of Disasters is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Disasters. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u79	You have the floor to speak on the name of the Law, Mr. Bozhinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor on the title of the Law to announce that our parliamentary group will vote against the Law and thereby express its overall attitude in this short in volume and very poor in content Law. At first reading we made proposals for an extension of the Law and a very substantial amendment and development of the problems in this area. Our proposals were met with disapproval. The parties supporting the government have expressed strong support for the text tabled and have practically made the proposal of amendments at second reading. Why do we have such a firm attitude toward this Law? Firstly, it does not meet public expectations and promises made to people who have suffered severe disasters and accidents in recent years. I ask the representatives of the parties who support the Law: how will they go to Miziya to campaign for a vote when they promised to support amendments to the Law, according to which the benefits will not be based on a tax assessment, but as a basis will the market valuation of the property be sought? They promised amendments that not only compensation for recovery would be allowed, but compensation for completely lost properties, as were the cases in Miziya. In what is the amendment that we consider insufficient, unnecessary and non-solving problems in this Law? You importers propose an amendment to art. 34, where it is said that each natural person is in debt at eight points to list his duties, now with this grand amendment in the law you add that the person is obliged to take measures to prevent the damage of his property from taking measures to protect him and to limit the impact. Perhaps this is appropriate, but I ask: when all the scientific expertise has proved that in Miziya the damage is due to an unpredictable coincidence of circumstances, the prosecution confirmed it and has not accused anyone of these natural unpredictable events, who is the citizen who will predict the unpredictable and even more? a flow of factors in order to protect his property from such things?! If there are such cases in life, then the Law must provide that society will be solidarity with those who have suffered if you cannot predict what will happen. That's why I call the Law poor. That's the first idea. The second idea is that the restoration aid will only be for repair and restoration of the property. At first reading we and Cornelia Ninova pleaded that in life there are cases in which it is not only necessary to repair and repair. The whole house isn't on the people of Miziya, the whole houses are gone! These people aren't in the Law! The law says that it will amend, supplement and regulate public relations in the interests of people and protect them in the event of disasters. That's why this two-ideas piece of paper [[shows bill]] It is absolutely inadequate to the needs, to the problems, to the suffering of the people who have encountered natural disasters! I will not say that the second amendment already wants social authorities to prove how poor you are, and only when you are poor and you are not insured will they give you help. Dear colleagues, this Law is worthy to be denied even with its title! Therefore, the parliamentary group of our coalition will vote against the title and will no longer participate in the adoption of the two texts of which the amendment consists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I remember very well the speeches of my fellow Members on the left on this bill, only I have a simple question: why didn't you make any proposals between first and second readings? There are no proposals made, only a naked denial of the bill. If you had made suggestions, let us consider these proposals and let the House take note. Otherwise, it's the easiest thing to do just to criticize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u84	Dear colleague Atanasov, you have not listened carefully. I have touched on this point in my speech and stressed that our proposals and arguments towards them have been rejected so strongly by the importers and supported by the majority that they, as people realistics, have made any formal involvement meaningless in our face. For example, Cornelia Ninova proposed a moment, which is in the election platform of GERB. Isn't that right? What did the Minister of Finance say from this tribune? Don't offer it because it won't work. What? We offer it and you reject it because the minister rejected it? So, Mr. Atanasov, this Law is so incompetent that it doesn't deserve to be repaired.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u85	Are there any other lines to the speech of the MP Atanas Atanasov? I won't. Come in, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're arguing about how many devils are at the tip of the needle. Mr. Bojinov, there is a division of authorities and what the Minister of Finance may have said should be interested in this House, but the Chamber must make its decisions on internal conviction. And don't tell me what suggestions you've made in the hall, because they're not in black and white. You should have done them accordingly, fought for them in the Commission and then in the Chamber, and not nakedly deny what was proposed. That's my douche. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Voted 101 MPs: 82, against 18, abstention 1. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u88	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is Nine. take measures to protect its property from damage and to limit the damage caused by the disaster, as well as to comply with the requirements of the competent authorities for the removal of sources of danger for damage; 10. allows the authorised officials to carry out the relevant assessments and polls necessary in connection with the granting of the assistance under art. 33, para. 1, t. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u89	Continue with the other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. ............................................ The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-06.u91	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 1, § 2, § 3, the name of the section of the Law, as well as § 4. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 83 against 3, abstention 1. Paragraphs 1 to 4 including, together with the name of the division, the Final provision and thus the Second Voting Act have been adopted. With this, we have exhausted the scheduled agenda for today. Tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. regular plenary session. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
