ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. One message. By letter entering No 554-00-645 of 23 July 2015 Mr. Velizar Enchev informed me that he withdrew the bill for amendment of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank on 20 July this year. Honourable Members, according to the Programme we voted on Wednesday, as point one today, we should be debating and voting at first reading the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In connection with the collection of signatures by constitutional majority for the introduction of a new Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, I propose that we vote on dropping point 9 of our weekly Programme and continue with the remaining points that we have adopted on Wednesday. [[Noise and line from BSP LB.]] Inverse proposal Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! We are making a counter-proposal of delaying consideration of the paragraph relating to amendments to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u3	There is no such proposal to postpone, there is a proposal to drop the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u4	Thank you for correcting me for dropping out of the agenda. You can see that society is already excited about what the ruling majority will produce. You have announced that there is a historic, big compromise, a triumph of victorious reformism. Give this triumph a chance to appear. After all, we think this is a simple failure. This failure needs to be seen, to clarify the reasons why it came to this and whatever mess you're in, let me get it out. Therefore, we insist that there be an examination on item one, as provided for on the agenda, because, on the one hand, you have reduced the process of amending the Constitution, something extremely important, related to the state's foundations, to the basic public contract, to a Mahlenian bargaining table, and we cannot tolerate this anymore. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have to put an end to this farce and from now on, whoever claims to have achieved something is responsible. As is the bill tabled, let us examine it and rule on it by the National Assembly. That someone intends to submit another bill, these are simple intentions. Let us not lower constitutionalism and parliamentaryism to simple political bargaining. I ask you very much that we do not postpone this point and that we can freely express each one, according to their understanding, their opinions on the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u5	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to remove the item from the agenda. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 197 MPs: 167, against 27, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on our program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PEOPLE LIVING OUTSIDE THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Two Bills The first is with importer Volen Siderov and a group of MPs; the second is Mr. Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. Reports have been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. I'd like Mr. Kirilov to brief us on the Legal Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-19, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015, and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. At its meeting held on 8 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed these two bills. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Krasimir Bojanov, Director of the Directorate of Legal Affairs, and Mrs. Mariana Gerchanova, Class III diplomatic officer, expert at the Directorate of Consular Relations and by the Ministry of Interior: Mrs. Rositsa Grudeva, Senior Legal Consultant at the Directorate of Migration and Mr. Todor Dragnev, Expert at the Directorate of Migration and Mr. Radoslav Punchev, Director of the Specialized Directorate. The bill submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs was presented by Mr. Yavor Notev. The Law provides for an explicit inclusion in the scope of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria of the right to acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship under the conditions of art. 15 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. In order to facilitate the regime of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship is proposed an amendment in art. 15 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, creating a legal opportunity for a certificate of Bulgarian origin to be issued by an organization of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, recognized by the competent Bulgarian state authority, as well as by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The bill submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs was presented by Mr. Julian Angelov. The proposed Bill aims to ease the regime for recognition of nationality by origin in the presence of an explicit interest in belonging to Bulgaria by people of Bulgarian origin or self-consciousness. It is also possible that in the event of failure to provide the necessary documents proving Bulgarian origin, Bulgarian origin can be proved by written declaration within the meaning of art. 39, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code with certified date and signature. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, opinions have been received on the draft laws by the State Agency (National Security Agency), the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior. Members of the National Assembly Julian Angelov, Emil Dimitrov, Yavor Notev, Philip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Danail Kirilov and Cetin Kazak took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, the MPs agreed that the amendments to the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria should be supported in principle, with separate provisions being subject to clarification. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ With 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 1 vote abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement of the Bulgarian Law for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Yonchev, come in. There are two reports from the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad, respectively under the Bill submitted by Mr. Siderov and then under the Bill submitted by Mr. Angelov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u8	Mr. President, our Commission has issued two reports because it has been voted separately on both bills. I'll introduce you both.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u9	Maybe on a resume.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u10	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. At its meeting on 3 June 2015, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Rakovski Lashev, Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ms. Mariana Gerchanova, Senior Legal Consultant at the Department of Migration, Mrs. Eva Veneva, State Expert at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, Mr. Todor Dragnev, Expert at the Department of Public Migration and Bulgarian Citizenship, Mrs. Eva Veneva, from the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Petko Petkov Deputy Minister, from the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Oleg Petkov President, Mr. Anna Gochkova, Head of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Petko Petkova. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria No 554-01-20, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Julian Angelov. The bill envisions Bulgarian citizens to acquire Bulgarian citizenship in a relaxed order by introducing the concept of a related relative to the purpose of documents certifying Bulgarian origin to serve as proof for a relative in a cross-border line to the sixth degree. A proposed amendment provides for the possibility that, in the absence of official documents certifying origin, one may be proved by a notary certified declaration. The proposed amendments aim to create a flexible and effective system for the protection of the rights and interests of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the possibility of increasing the Bulgarian population, in the presence of an explicit interest in belonging to it by individuals of Bulgarian origin or Bulgarian self-consciousness. In connection with the Bill in the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad, opinions have been received from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad, the State Agency of National Security. There are arguments that the extension of the circle of kinship relationships, which serve to prove Bulgarian origin, would lead to difficulties to establish the trueness of the claimed relations, as well as to abuse and illegal practices. The amendments provided for in the Bill extend the circle of individuals who will be treated as such of Bulgarian origin for the purposes of naturalization and documents through which such origin will be proved. The State Agency for Bulgarians abroad expressed its positive opinion on the Bill. The Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security is expressing negative opinions. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov. During the discussion Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov expressed his support to the Bill, noting that without changing the Law the practice of acquiring Bulgarian citizenship was changed. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov noted that if amendments to the bill are adopted, the Law on Foreigners should also be amended. Mr. Petko Petkov expressed his opinion that the amendments to the bill were a mixture of the two approaches for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Mr. Oleg Petkov expressed the negative opinion of the State Agency on the draft. Mr. Krasimir Bogdanov expressed his support for the amendments to the bill. Mr. Julian Angelov supported the Bill, adding that the texts are subject to clarification, changes and precision in the process between the two votes. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad agreed that regarding the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20, submitted by Julian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015, express their principle support, noting the need for precision. After the discussion, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 12 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here's the second one: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-19, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. At its meeting on 3 June 2015, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-19, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Rakovski Lashev, Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ms. Mariana Gerchanova, Senior Legal Consultant at the Department of Migration, Mrs. Eva Veneva, State Expert at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, Mr. Todor Dragnev, Expert at the Department of Public Migration and Bulgarian Citizenship, Mrs. Eva Veneva, from the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Petko Petkov Deputy Minister, from the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Oleg Petkov President, Mr. Anna Gochkova, Head of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Petko Petkova. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-19, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015, was presented by Mr. Ilian Todorov, who expressed his support for the submitted Law, noting that the proposed changes will remove the administrative burden and relieve the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. A legal opportunity is created for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, who are not Bulgarian citizens, to be able to acquire Bulgarian citizenship under the conditions of art. 15 of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. It is proposed that Bulgarian origin can be restored not only with a certificate issued by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, but also by organizations of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, recognised by the competent Bulgarian state authority or by the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. In the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad were received opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, who expressed negative opinions, the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad and the State Agency for National Security, which also gave negative opinions on the bill. There are arguments that the proposals will lead to a change in the philosophy of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria (ZBZIRB) and in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship (ZBG). Easing the order for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of Bulgarian origin on the basis of documents issued by non-governmental bodies would increase the risk of violations of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed changes thus do not solve the main problem of the Bulgarians from the historical communities living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, which is related to expanding the possibilities for certification of their Bulgarian origins. The People's Representative Ilian Todorov participates in the discussion of the Bill. In the course of the discussion Mr. Rumen Alexandrov expressed his opinion on the Law that the mention of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church only puts the other two most common religions in Bulgaria - Islam and Judaism. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov noted that if amendments to the bill are adopted, the Law on Foreigners should also be amended. Mr. Petko Petkov expressed his opinion that the amendments to the bill were a mixture of the two approaches for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship. Mr. Oleg Petkov expressed the negative opinion of the State Agency "National Security" under the Law. Mr. Ilian Todorov expressed his support for the amendments to the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 3 votes for the Bulgarians Against the Bulgarians, 2 votes against the Bulgarians, and 7 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplement the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-19, from 4 February 2015, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. On behalf of the importers? I don't see anyone in the room. That suggests you have no one to argue with. Mr. Julian Angelov, on behalf of the importers of the second bill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! What forced the change in the current law? In the last two years Bulgarians abroad have faced the problem of not recognizing their Bulgarian origins, given that the current Law is from the year 2000 and until two years ago there was no problem to prove their Bulgarian origin. In the last two years the interpretation of the Law, which gives them the right, has been done differently and a large part of the Bulgarian communities abroad cannot prove their Bulgarian origin............................ the Bulgarian Constitution and the Bulgarian Citizenship Act and the Bulgarian Law for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. From this point of view, we have submitted a consensus proposal signed not only by the Patriotic Front; it is signed by representatives of GERB, of ABB, of the BDZ, of the Reformation bloc; it is also supported by the committees and BSP left Bulgaria, as well as by the Ataka. There are few drafts and topics in the Bulgarian National Assembly that unite Bulgarian MPs. It was precisely the topic of the Bulgarians abroad and their rights that united the Bulgarian National Assembly and the two committees supported this bill. We offer several specific texts that will allow for easier proof of the Bulgarian origins of our compatriots in Ukraine, Moldova, Romania, Macedonia and Serbia. The problem is that the request for proof of Bulgarian origin on an ascending line has proved that many people who have received Bulgarian citizenship or Bulgarian origins in Bulgaria over the years, based on being Bulgarians of origin, cannot now prove that they are Bulgarians. There are these situations: their children have Bulgarian citizenship, their parents cannot take Bulgarian origin because their children are not ascending, which is a complete paradox. That is why we have proposed to be able to prove in descending, ascending and on the Bulgarian line the Bulgarian origins, i.e. the people who have documents of close relatives... we introduce this concept to be able to prove their Bulgarian origin and to enjoy the opportunities that Bulgarian legislation gives them. We come to the situation that much of the Bulgarians from Albania, Macedonia, Serbia or other countries who are currently applying for students in Bulgaria cannot take a certificate of Bulgarian origin and study in Bulgaria. Many Bulgarians who want to get documents for permanent residence in Bulgaria and not Bulgarian citizenship can not either. From this point of view, the different opinions of the institutions were commented on some were negative, other positive, third balanced. The practice at the moment for submission of documents for Bulgarian origin or citizenship, as at the moment it is required to submit declarations, and to have them in the Law. For this reason, we proposed between the two readings to be refined part of the texts that concern colleagues and institutions so that there can be more accuracy in the verification of Bulgarian origin, but not to take away the possibility of the Bulgarians to prove their Bulgarian origin. I hope that the Bulgarian Parliament will support these changes at first reading and between the two readings we will find the right texts and the right solution to protect the millions of our countrymen abroad and to be supported. I thank all those who supported in both committees the bills, and thank those who signed under this bill. I hope that one of the few occasions that will delight the Bulgarians abroad is precisely today when the Bulgarian National Assembly supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I'm opening the debate. I remind you that the debates can be parallel to both laws. Please make a statement. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-19, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. The first reading. Vote 128 MPs: 44, against 20, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, we are going to vote on the next Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-20, submitted by Ilian Krastev Angelov and a group of MPs on 4 February 2015. They voted 130 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 2. [[Applause.]] The proposal is adopted, with which this item on the agenda is also adopted. Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT AND FACTION OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY PROTECTION SYSTEM. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 11 March 2015 adopted on the first vote on 20 May 2015. Mr. Lazarov, you are welcome to present the Second Reading Report by the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u14	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. According to the name of the bill there is a proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u15	Are there any who wish to speak on the name of the Law and the name of Chapter One? I can't see. We vote on the name proposed by the Commission of the Law plus the name proposed by the Commission of Chapter One. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u16	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u17	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Vote art. 1 supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u18	Under art. 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Miho Mihov and Kiril Tsochev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 cancels the intended text and three new paragraphs shall be created: Art. 2. (1) The management and functioning of the national security protection system is the structure of the coordination and interaction bodies between the elements of the national security system of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Invasion against national security shall be targeted actions or omissions of persons, groups or organisations leading to processes or events that violate the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State, the unity of the nation and the constitutional order established in the country. (3) Violation of the equilibrium of society due to non-compliance with the established international and internal rules, due to natural disasters and production accidents, as well as due to violations of public policy and disregard for the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution affect national security. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Metodi Andreev, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Angel Naydenov, Dimitar Dubov and gentlemen of the Parliament, which the Commission supports. Proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov: Art. 2 to acquire the following version: The current text of art. 2 becomes para. 1 and create para. 2 and 3: The National Security System is a configuration of the state's interacting and interconnected security and defence capabilities that form an integral whole. (3) The National Security Protection System shall be a national security system subsystem. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Lyubomir Hristov and representatives of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. National security is a dynamic state of society and the state in which the territorial integrity, sovereignty and constitutionally established order of the country are protected when the democratic functioning of the institutions and fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are guaranteed, as a result of which the nation retains and increases its well-being and develops, as well as when the country successfully defends its national interests and realizes its national priorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u19	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Tsochev and I are defending the thesis that has been discussed in the Commission. I would like to protect her again before you that the Law does not need to define, a definition of this is national security. The very fact that six definitions have been proposed, and to a large extent different, shows that this issue has not been legally endured without claiming that I have experience in this field, but it is also argued among scientific and academic circles, as no one has ever defined the concept of terrorism. I am sure that you well imagine that terrorism is one of the main things that would and should fall into the subject of national security. So without attacking the definition proposed by colleagues, I will say that here the text brings me to Article. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act, where somehow the institutions were not involved as responsibilities. And all that as a combination of words are guaranteed, are protected, somehow comes higher or a priori. Therefore, I hold on to the three paragraphs that we propose with Mr. Tsochev because of the fact that they state the purpose and subject of the Law. That's why it's called the...... among us. It is nice and has received a great improvement between the two votes, which I am pleased about. In any case, when we are talking about definition and international arbitration, a person would have dealt with many difficulties if you asked just one rhetorical question: Who among us would have said during the Kosovo crisis, when Bulgaria was attacked with three NATO and one Serbian missiles, was our national security violated and could anyone use the definition to protect national interests? It is more important to me to point out as an object that this is a structural, organizational text which is subject to subordination and interaction of all institutions. Secondly, the attacks are an act and inaction of certain structures. And thirdly, the violation of national security and its violation are the product of broken international and internal norms, where we quote them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u21	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mihov! I'm doing a replica of what you said at two points. First of all, I understand the thesis with which you go out and argue that there is no definition of national security in this Law. However, as far as I understand it, the text is identical to the text recorded in Paragraph 1, point. 13 in the Classified Information Act, the Additional Provisions. The same text was proposed by colleagues to enter this Law. I'd like you to explain what you include in what you say about a framework law. This Law is not framework. This Law is like a regulation which regulates the activities of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. Let's make a difference, guys! The fact that some of the MPs who demonstrated with the desire to have laws in the sector of Security announced that there would be a framework law is not such a law. It's like a Council of Ministers regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u23	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My understanding is that the Law has been improved. Yes, in co-operation I had claims, and from the very beginning I said that this Law we define it as a framework, because apart from the Security Council, which enters a legal norm, the subordination and interaction of the other authorities are structured thanks to this Law. On this topic, I will tell you that this is almost a duplicate of Prime Minister Ivan Kostov's definition from the time of the first National Security Concept. But the concept is a theoretically appropriate document. You may not recall, but the National Security Strategy, which was adopted by the first government of Boyko Borisov, did not allow itself to introduce a definition where it is more acceptable. Definitions are made with scientific tools, in textbooks and elsewhere. Here the definition obliges. And let me be disproved with decades ahead, whether we have made a mistake. And thank you for the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Miho Mihov and Kiril Tsochev. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 11, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Krasimir Karakachanov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 102 MPs: 17 against 2, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 2 of the Law in its version of the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 87, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u26	Article 3. A proposal has been made by the MP Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev and Plamen Manushev. [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u27	You're withdrawing this offer? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u28	Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov, Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3. Art. 3. (1) The National Security Protection System shall consist of state bodies and bodies which carry out diplomatic, defence, intelligence, counterintelligence, operational, law enforcement, security activities and which shall be represented in the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. (2) National security shall assume and require: 1. analysis of specifics and dependencies in the security environment and early warning of risks; 2. preventing, reducing and preventing risks and hazards; 3. countering threats and violations; 4. crisis management and resolution; 5. establishment, designation and protection of critical infrastructure. (3) The tasks and activities of the bodies and bodies under para. 1 shall be governed by separate laws. (4) The bodies and structures under para. 1 in the case of protection of national security they shall carry out: 1. interaction and coordination in carrying out their activities and in carrying out specific tasks; 2. cooperation with other state bodies and organisations, with local government bodies and with legal entities and citizens; 3. cooperation with related institutions and other state and international organisations. (5) The heads of bodies and structures under para. 1 coordinate their activities in the protection of national security by issuing joint instructions setting out the order and manner of interaction. (6) The interaction between the bodies and the structures under para. 1 shall be carried out by written correspondence, working meetings, the establishment of joint working groups and the conduct of coordinated events, as well as other forms, in accordance with their competence. (7) For the purposes of interaction, the bodies and bodies referred to in para. 1 shall be informed and agreed upon in the course of any information of interest on the activities of another body or body. (8) The authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security and the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the National Security Service shall provide themselves with information and/or access to the database of data created, stored and used under the terms of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, under the conditions and by the order laid down in the joint instructions of their superiors. (9) The bodies and structures under para. 1 may conclude training agreements for employees and for the exchange of employees with each other and with other bodies and bodies under conditions and by order laid down by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u29	Statements under art. 3? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The unsupported proposal has been withdrawn, so I shall put to the vote art. 3 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u30	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov: "To add a new art. 4 containing the following content: Art. 4. (1) An integral part of the national security protection system shall be the intelligence community. (2) The intelligence community shall consist of state bodies which carry out operational and information activities to assess the risks and threats to national security, their sources and which plan and carry out countermeasures against them. (3) The state bodies referred to in the previous paragraph shall be: State Agency....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (4) For coordination of the issues of interaction and coordination of activities within the intelligence community and for the implementation of joint plans and tasks, a Board of the intelligence community shall be established. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u31	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 97 MPs: 13, against 3, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u32	Under art. 4 has a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreyev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and, in general, in terms of t. 4. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Proposal of the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Lyubomir Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The basic principles of the management and functioning of the national security protection system are: 1. compliance with the Constitution, laws and international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 2. political neutrality; 3. respect and guarantee of human rights and fundamental freedoms; 4. objectivity and impartiality; 5. cooperation with citizens and their organisations; 6. openness, transparency and responsibility in the formation and implementation of policies for the protection of national security; 7. centralized management and control of intelligence activities; 8. protection of information and sources for its acquisition; 9. timely provision of information by competence to another authority or body from the national security protection system or to another state authority; 10. coherent implementation of activities to protect national security and the combination of clear and secret forms and modes of work.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u33	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 4 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 82, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u34	"Chapter 2 "Management and operation of the National Security Protection System." Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u35	Statements by name? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter Two. They voted 91 MPs: 85, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u36	Under art. 5 has a proposal of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Angel Naydenov, Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: Art. 5 to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. [[Reply by National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u37	The proposal has been withdrawn from Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u38	Proposal of the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Plamen Manushev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. In the management of the National Security Protection System, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers according to their competence: 1. define national interests and priorities; 2. draw up and adopt regulations, strategies, concepts, doctrines and action plans; 3. define the main tasks of the state authorities and structures under art. 3, para. 1; 4. implement and organise the strategic planning, interaction, coordination and integration of the activities of the state bodies and structures under art. 3, para. 1; 5. determine the necessary resources for the implementation of national security protection activities, the mechanisms for their management and spending, their distribution between state authorities and bodies; 6. control the spending of resources under point 6. 5; 7. control the implementation of strategic objectives and priorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u39	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u40	Thank you, Madam President. We have proposed that this provision be dismissed because, in our opinion, it is completely meaningless. The authorities of which she spoke, namely the National Assembly, the President and the Council of Ministers, are constitutionally attached. It is there and only there in the Constitution that the competence of each of them can be determined by general instructions. In the end, it is about the fundamental principle of separation of powers. As this text is written, it can lead to a coup d'état that it is as if the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the President, although everyone in their jurisdiction, together define, prepare and accept and so on. This is not true because each body carries its own specific responsibilities. The National Assembly adopts laws, others implement them. What does it mean for the three authorities to carry out and organise the activities of the security services together? This is from the exclusive competence of the executive, which is exercised as any, under the control of the National Assembly. Those are our arguments, Art. 5 drop out, for which I ask the House to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u41	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take account of the proposals discussed? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Merdjanov and the dropout group. Five by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 96 MPs: 19 against 49, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 5 in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 80 against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u42	Under art. 6 There is a proposal from Lazarov, Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) The heads of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information shall provide the same in volume and content information acquired by them, to the President of the Republic, to the President of the National Assembly and to the Prime Minister. (2) The President of the Republic shall require and receive from the state bodies and bodies under art. 3, para. 1 their necessary full information to carry out its functions as High Commander.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u43	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are essentially already in Chapter Two, which regulates the possible activities of the services and institutions. I take this opportunity during the discussions to make an editorial addition. In Article 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 1 after the Ministry of Military Information to be added to the Ministry of Interior. My argument for this editorial amendment is that in the system of the Ministry of Interior there is also the Directorate General for Organized Crime, which has a butchery in relation to national security and must be included within the text and under art. 3, para. 1 with analyses and information to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly and the Prime Minister. We must not exclude those units within the Ministry of Interior. Fellow importers, I understand your view of unloading the Ministry of Interior from activities. This became clear yesterday with the adoption of amendments, amendments and additions to the Customs Act. But with the logic that you recognise the lack of capacity in the management of the Ministry of Interior and the Minister of Interior, we should not look at the situation as a momentary one. This law will act after this mandate of the government of Borisov and after the end of the mandate of Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. So please support the editorial amendment of the Ministry of Interior to be added to art. 6, para. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u45	Any lines to Mr. Iankov? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Iankov's proposal after the Ministry of Military Information to be added to the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u46	There's one that's getting away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u47	Final texts will correct the editing, as after your proposal it should sound like: The leaders of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence and the Ministry of Interior will become comma here if your proposal is accepted. We vote on Mr. Yankov's proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 24, against 61, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u48	Honourable Members, I call on you to reconsider this particular proposal! You're crippled by the law. The Ministry of Interior cannot be isolated when it comes to national security. Isn't that why we changed the Ministry of Interior Act so that a specific Directorate-General could take on functions that were previously in the counterintelligence, the strong office of the State Agency of National Security? And you claim that this law is framework in terms of national security...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u49	And you're getting to the point, Mr. Iankov! We get it. You want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u50	You're actually maiming and shutting down the Ministry of Interior. I'm asking for a re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u51	Revoting, coworkers. [[Reflections to the right: even redr!]] They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 69, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 6 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 83 against 11, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u52	Article 7. Proposal of MPs Miho Mihov and Kiril Tsochev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2, p. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Manage and coordinate the activities of the institutions represented in the Security Council, as well as between them and other bodies of state power. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Council of Ministers shall: 1. implement the overall management of the national security protection system; 2. propose to the National Assembly a draft National Security Strategy; 3. adopt and submit to the National Assembly an annual report on the state of national security; 4. adopt a decision to conduct a strategic review of the national security protection system on a proposal from the Prime Minister; 5. propose to the President of the Republic for the appointment and release of the heads of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence and the Office of Military Information. 6. adopt acts relating to the management and operation of the national security protection system. (2) The Prime Minister shall: 1. direct the coordination between the institutions represented in the Security Council, as well as between them and other bodies of the government; 2. implement the general management of the intelligence community; 3. approve the annual plans on the activities of the State Agency "National Security", the State Agency.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. submit to the Council of Ministers draft acts relating to the management and operation of the national security protection system and draft annual report on the state of national security; 5. submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal to the President of the Republic for the appointment and release of the heads of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior; 6. exercise general control over the international cooperation of state bodies and structures under art. 3, para. 1 with similar bodies and structures in other countries and international organisations; 7. implement the general management of the Security Council's international cooperation with similar authorities of other countries. (3) To assist the implementation of the tasks under para. 1 and 2 of the Council of Ministers is established Security Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u53	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u54	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2, p. 2 supposes a general leadership of the intelligence community and I propose that the editorial amendment be replaced by a board, because the expression "intelligence community" means a sum of countries or organisations, and the board is by leaders. The Prime Minister cannot manage countries or organisations other than the Bulgarian organizations or the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u55	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Miho Mihov and Kiril Tsochev. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 89 MPs: 10, against 22, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's amendment proposal. They voted 85 MPs: 12, against 51, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 7 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u56	Article 8. Proposal of the MPs Velizar Enchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 is created t. 13: "13." The President of the National Assembly and the Chairs of the Parliamentary Committees on Defence and Foreign Policy. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In certain cases and on specific issues in the work of the Security Council at the invitation of its Chair, Members of the National Assembly, Ministers and Heads of Administration and Organizations may participate. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Hristo Gazhev and Plamen Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u57	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u58	The offer has been withdrawn. Proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 t. 12 drop out. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 5 is amended as follows: The President of the Republic may attend the meetings of the Council in person or through a representative expressly appointed by his edict. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The Security Council shall be an advisory and coordinating body of the Council of Ministers on national security matters. (2) The Chairman of the Security Council shall be the Prime Minister. (3) Members of the Security Council shall be: 1. the Minister of Interior; 2. the Minister of Defence; 3. the Minister of Foreign Affairs; 4. the Minister of Finance; 5. the Chief of Defense; 6. the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior; 7. the Chairman of the State Agency 8. the Chairman of the State Agency 9. The Director of the Service "Military Information" (Military Information); 10. the head of the National Security Service; 11. the Secretary of the Security Council; 12. two representatives of the President of the Republic, expressly designated by him by decree. (4) A member of the Security Council may also be a Deputy Prime Minister authorised by order of the Prime Minister to coordinate and monitor the work of structures of the National Security Protection System. (5) The President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly may participate personally in the meetings of the Security Council. (6) In certain cases and on individual matters in the work of the Security Council at the invitation of its Chair, chairmen of permanent committees of the National Assembly, MPs, ministers and heads of departments and organizations may participate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Here's your speech, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u60	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! We are in a paradoxical situation for an independent MP to propose amendments to the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, which are in the interest of Parliament, in the interest of the parliamentary quota. What's this about? Article 8, para. 1 states that members of the Security Council are to remind you if you have forgotten the Prime Minister, who is chairing, of course, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary General, the Chairman of the SANS, the Director of Intelligence, the Director of the Military Information and the Secretary of the Security Council and two representatives of the President. What's missing here? It's very simple. There is no representative of the National Assembly. I therefore propose to supplement by right members of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers to be the President of Parliament, the Chairs of the Parliamentary Committees on Defence and Foreign Policy. It's in your best interest, not in my best interest. And another very controversial paragraph.............................................................................................. 6 in which we read that in certain cases and on separate issues in the work of the Security Council at the invitation of its President, the Prime Minister may participate the President of the National Assembly, chairmen of permanent committees of parliament, MPs and so on. Here directly the Council of Ministers eliminates with this text the legislative body in our person....................................... the National Assembly............................................... I ask the following question: what are these specific cases and questions? Who determines when representatives of the National Assembly will participate in the work of the Council? This is a scandalous paragraph, and it needs to be changed. I propose, more precisely, to ensure that MPs are invited, of course, in certain cases, as I said earlier in para. 3 by right members of the Security Council to be the President of Parliament and the Chairs of the two key committees in the National Assembly, because, honourable Members, according to the Constitution, which we have not yet changed, Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary rule. It is therefore not right in the work of the Security Council towards the executive power not to have legally representatives of the legislative power present. It is also appropriate, especially in crisis situations, to include MPs from all parliamentary groups in the work of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. I hope that common sense and, above all, yours, of our interest will support something that is in the interest of the National Assembly, regardless of who heads it and who heads the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u61	Mr. Enchev, you propose that the President of Parliament and the Chairs of the Defence and Foreign Policy Committees be members of the Security Council?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u62	Add to new item 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u63	It's in the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u64	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 of para. 6 that's there? First line, here you go, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Enchev, I'm using the procedural opportunity for a line to ask you this. Your proposal includes the Chairs of the Parliamentary Committees on Defence and Foreign Policy. Don't you think that since such a proposal is being made for representatives of the Bulgarian Parliament, the Chairs of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Commission for Control of Secret Services should also be included?! It became clear from those who support the members of the Bill that they exclude the Ministry of Interior from the scope of work of this Security Council as an opportunity for proposals, analyses to be proposed to the President, the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly. I think that, in relation to the sector and the responsibility these committees have in their work, they can be participants. My question to you as a line is: why are they absent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u66	It was a proposal for editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u67	In principle, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u68	Second line? Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Enchev, there is no doubt that the body which is constituted by this Law is an authority of the executive power. Where do you send the chairmen of the parliamentary committees to go to a meeting of an executive body?! Is he gonna run the executive?! In addition, there is a separate paragraph in which it is written that the President of the National Assembly, who represents the National Assembly, can participate at any time in the meetings of this Council if he decides that this needs to happen, but there is a separation of powers, please. We don't construct any authority over all the authorities. This is an executive body led by the Prime Minister, who is head of the executive power. We have no place there for the Prime Minister to lead us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u70	Third line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u71	I understand Mr. Enchev's good intentions to have more transparency, but one of the arguments has already been put forward by General Atanasov that this is an executive body. If we only bring in the Presidents of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Policy, the resonant question of colleague Jankov arises: why not just the two of them, and why not the Chairs of the Commission on the Control of the Services, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and so on? I can think of the chairman of another committee. It's going to be a big talk in an organ that needs to work more operaticly! By the way, there is a similar option in the Committees. It is written there, I repeat, because it is an executive body that: At the discretion of the Prime Minister, chairmen of other committees, MPs, representatives of all organizations can be invited. And to your question, by what criterion, very clearly! If we look at the security criterion on the subject of the conflict in the Middle East, you will invite similar people and public structures that are relevant and some competence on the subject, not anyone who wants to. I think that the logic of your proposal is largely covered by the Commission's version, which has made the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u72	A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u73	I do not agree at all with Mr. Atanasov that there should be no representative of the National Assembly in the Council, which is consultative and coordinating to the Council of Ministers. After all, we are the legislative body, the Council of Ministers is subordinate to the National Assembly. There is nothing wrong with the opposite, it is good in the name of democracy to have representatives of the National Assembly present. I fully agree with Mr. Iankov and I can make such a proposal to the Presidents of the Internal Commission and other committees concerned with national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u74	Any other MPs? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! With the texts submitted by us, we offer in art. 8, para. 1 t. 12 to be dropped and in art. Paragraph 8 shall be amended. The philosophy of our proposal concerns the role of the President in this Council, which is formed in the Law. We believe that the permanent presence of representatives of the President at the Security Council meetings is absolutely unfounded. Their quality as voting members also. This actually brings the president down, whose opinion will always be minority in a Council fully controlled by the Prime Minister. The Council is of 13 members and takes decisions by a simple majority, and the President will have two representatives. Why is it so incomprehensible to us?! What can they achieve and influence if there is any disagreement in this situation? Yes, of course, the President has the right to be informed about the Council's work, so we propose that he is entitled to attend in person or through his representatives at meetings, but without being a formal member and without voting rights, because this right to vote makes him a member of the Council chaired by another body which is incompatible with both the representative functions of the Head of State and his status as Commander-in-Chief. If he wants to participate in decision-making, then the President has a much more powerful instrument, such as the Advisory Council for National Security, which, through its diverse political composition, has much more serious and greater legitimacy than the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. Otherwise, how can the President seek consensus in the event of sharp opposition between the political forces if he participates in a vote or a controversial decision? It must be made clear here that our proposal is certainly not against the President. On the contrary, it is in his defence or, more precisely, in defence of the Head of State institution, which cannot simply be a member of any council, either he or the Security Council. Here in support of my argumentation I can point out the statement of Mr. Atanasov just now, who confirmed that this Council is an executive body. Why do we have to humiliate the president to enter as a permanent member of this body?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u76	Any lines to Mr. Ivanov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I vote on Mr. Merdjanov's proposals and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 15 against 61, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial additions that Mr. Velizar Enchev just made from the parliamentary platform. We vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposals. They voted 108 MPs: 11 against 64, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote art. 8 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 93, against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. However, we must now also vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, for changes in art. 8. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Mr. Velizar Enchev. They voted 110 MPs: 14 against 68, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 28 July 2015, Tuesday, from 11.00 to 17.00 on the following agenda: 1. Draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. Importer Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. 2. Draft decision on the election of the Commission to produce a secret vote in the election of the Ombudsman. The Commission shall be elected in accordance with Section V of the Election Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2015. 3. Proposal for the production of a national referendum with questions: - Do you support some of the MPs being elected majority? - Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and national referendums? - Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? Importer "The President of the Republic of Bulgaria, 3 June 2015 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Security Code - General project, drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at first vote by the importers - Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, and the Council of Ministers. Voting mode. Vote 119 MPs: 98 against 11, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, as soon as I announce the break, a photo exhibition dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Court of Auditors' recovery and 135 years since the establishment of the Supreme Audit Institution of Bulgaria will be opened in the northern lobby. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a break till 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u77	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 17 "July 23, 2015' A question came in from: - MP Georgi Kadiev to Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy on Government policy against disabled people. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 31 July 2015; - MP Svetoslav Belemezov to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior on a government strategy for resolving and preventing conflicts and tensions in areas such as the village of Katunitsa, the village of Garmen and the district of Orlandovtsi. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 31 July 2015; - MP Slavi Binev to Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Justice, on the policy of introducing electronic justice. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 31 July 2015. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on ten questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Volen Siderov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MPs Kalina Balabanov and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Krasimir Karakachanov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Mithat Metin; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. It's not an answer, it's a whole report. Mr. Boychev is absent; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Stefani Mikhailova; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Nikola Hadzhiyski; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a request from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Rumen Hristov; Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Kristian Mitev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Claudia Grigorova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Silvia Hubenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Gorov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev. That was the last written response to the service. Colleagues who didn't get them can do this later. Today's parliamentary control begins with the questions and answers of Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin "Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy." First will develop their inquiry by the MPs Mihail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova about the demographic perspective in front of the country. Mr. Mikov, we're waiting for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable MPs! All parties in parliament and outside parliament are aware of the severe demographic situation facing the country. Also, much of the parties in their election platforms pose this issue, and it should be a matter with which the government is committed to priority. Our feeling is that in recent months, a number of other issues have shifted the question of demographic perspective to the country, and with last year's budget of frozen payments, with reduced incomes, we know that Bulgaria is the poorest country and incomes are the lowest of all other countries, it is obvious that this will also negatively affect the demographic development of the country. About 15 years later, 2039. The Bulgarian population will be over 65 years of age, about 40 percent of the Bulgarian population. And that today you are proposing an increase in retirement age to 67 years will not help. After 15 years, we will surely have to pursue for 70, 75 years if urgent measures are not taken, clearly conscious, discussed in the National Assembly, to break the negative trends in the demographic perspective of the country. It is also the worst in the European Union. All this must be the subject of a very serious parliamentary discussion, but mostly responsible measures by the government, priority provision of funds and legislative, organisational measures of the executive, aimed in this direction. Our question with Mrs. Ninova, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is: what are these measures, what is to come, what can be done, where will we get to ensure the future of the country? This is an extremely big issue which, I think, interests all the political parties represented in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u79	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mikov, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully agree with the importance of the question that is raised by Mr. Mikov and Mrs. Ninova. It's not a new finding, it hasn't happened since yesterday or today with any negative developments. Even if we decide to look for some positivism, in recent years there has been a very small improvement in the demographic picture of the country. However, it is far from sufficient. The way our country copes with these trends, which are long-term and will have an effect after years, and a negative effect, if not taken on time, are efforts that are described in a demographic strategy in which there are annual plans and concrete measures and which I will hardly be able to state to you in detail within the framework of the answer to this question. Since you are putting the issue of its political importance, I would like to direct the discussion where I think it should be. The problem of poor demographic painting is not solved by one measure or another. It is decided only when the living level of Bulgarian citizens is better, when the working Bulgarian women are ready to give birth, to raise their children and to be able to develop in their careers, when Bulgarian families can provide a good standard for their children and the new generation, when our society can provide a good standard for people of higher age to increase their lives accordingly. These measures should actually be complex and related to the level of life. You said the incomes were down in 2015. The incomes have increased, but again here there is no way to say that what has been achieved should satisfy us in any way. My intentions are the strategy that is to solve the demographic problem, to become a parliamentary issue. You are right that these policies should be discussed in Parliament. Currently, in cooperation with experts from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, this demographic strategy is being reviewed again. Autumn I will most likely propose to the honourable Members that we adopt a different procedure in which the demographic strategy should be looked at, validated and debated in Parliament and that it should be an occasion for annual reports and discussions on the development of the demographic picture in the country. This, I think, will increase the opportunities of both the MPs and society to see what concrete measures can be taken, what resources our society is ready to separate and what is the result we expect from this resource, so I rely on your support. By the way, there were parliamentary groups that showed interest, and we have already had special talks related to the changes in demographic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Two supplementary questions, please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u82	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you are right that this is not a new finding. You will also offer a possible strategy, but many times such strategies are offered, viewed, discussed, concepts and plans have also been made, but the result is prominent. You are wrong that the demographic picture is improving since 2009 since 80 952 newborn children, in 2014 we have 67 585. You can see how drastic the reduction is. And the forecasts that are being made are that in 2020 we will have 25 thousand. Children less, and in 2025, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, children less, That is, the trend is clear, there is no need to question it. We agree that this is a horizontal policy. It also depends on the development of the economy, of healthcare, of social care for young families, but we believe that it is time to take concrete measures to address the problem of the demographic crisis. And in relation to these specific measures are my two questions. We submitted two bills from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. One provides that the tax rate for infant formula, follow-on formula, single-use diapers, household aid and child care is to be charged 5% VAT. My first question is: do you support this bill? Especially in autumn, when the budgetary procedure starts, and this should be a measure for helping young families, because, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for raising a child every year 6920 BGN is needed and the average annual income per household is 650 BGN. You see, even for a child, the entire income of a family is not enough. The reduction of VAT on children's foods is a means of supporting........................................................................................... And my second question is: we have introduced a bill with which we propose the non-taxable minimum of one family's income to be increased by 15 per cent for the first child and by another 10 per cent for the second child. That is, people with two children to pay less taxes for the first 15 percent less, for the second 10 percent less. Will you also support this particular measure so that we can have at least two solutions for helping young families this autumn?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, I will have to mention several numbers, since it does not start yesterday and will not end tomorrow the problem of supporting parenting and children. For 2015 By the way, the figures are comparable, with a very small difference between the figures, 568 million are envisaged. 683 thousand. lv. State budget funds that go to support the so-called children's supplements. They get them on a monthly average of 979 393 children. It's part of the resource that separates society. For 2015 under the Programme "Protection of the child through transition from institutional care to alternative care in the family environment" it is for reducing children who have been abandoned in institutions. 16 million are envisaged. Six hundred thousand. The Social Security Code also provides for amounts for monetary benefits for pregnancy and childbirth of 284,9 " 285 million' and 151 million, respectively, from the budget of the State Social Security. I mean, our society is spending a significant resource at the moment to help children, and this resource is insufficient. It is significant for the state's capabilities, it is significant for the budget's capabilities. You can see that only the numbers I mentioned are approaching a billion. lv. They don't get all the benefits. There's a family income test, and it's still a pretty big effort. These two specific measures that you are proposing are, in my opinion, measures in the right direction. Of course, I can only speak for myself, not on behalf of the government. The time to discuss laws relating to tax policy is around the adoption of next year's budget. I think we should look at different options, see how much each of these measures will cost the public, what effect it will have, and I am willing to support any such measures, respectively, given the limited resources of the Bulgarian budget, giving opportunity and more comfort for raising children, especially from working parents who are experiencing particular difficulties for raising their children.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Here's your attitude, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your support for these measures. I believe it will reflect in your position when discussing the draft budget for next year by the Council of Ministers. The cost of the reduced tax rate for baby goods is 56 million. lv. I don't agree that incomes have increased. You know that the income of the working poor has been reduced by the removal of the 10% non-taxable or those who have surrendered. So the income of the working poor is reduced! And when you say 568 million has been set aside. BGN, say that for a child there are 35 leva. We all know what £35 is. And how to raise a child with 35 leva. per month, in the country where income is lowest in the European Union! 35 leva. in the month.. consider them in euro and tell it to your colleagues in the European Union! I am absolutely aware that we need to focus parliamentary, and I agree with you. I agree that this needs to be discussed here, but not only as strategies, people are tired of strategies, but as concrete and clear measures to help families raise their children. There can be no limited budget resource when it comes to the country's perspective, the country's future. Because the demographic crisis, the declining birth rate, the democulation of raising children pose severe risks, and in one short term. It's not about horizons for 100 years anymore, it's about 15-20-30 years. We must be blind both the government and parliament, so that we do not direct funds in this direction. For this reason, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Mr. Chairman, I submit 57 signatures collected from the groups of the Patriotic Front, the Bulgarian Democratic Center and BSP left Bulgaria to postpone parliamentary debates on the measures on the demographic crisis in front of the country. Please, Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, schedule the debates on this matter. Here you go. [[Passing him a document]] Here, 57 signatures, count them. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u87	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. We move on to a common answer to two questions asked to Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor for procedure.]] I've already started, please, after. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u88	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u89	A general answer to two questions. The first question is from MP Desislava Valcheva Atanasova on unpaid remuneration. [[BSP LB insists they be given the word for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u90	But the chairman has already started!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u91	You are obliged to give the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u92	I had started, and then you asked for a procedure. After the question, I'll give you the right to a procedure. [[Loud noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Please sit down. When I decide, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u93	It's the rules, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u94	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the question I am asking, and I see that a colleague is also doing it, it is about guaranteeing the labour rights of the inhabitants of the poorest region in the Republic of Bulgaria and the whole of the European Union, namely Northwestern Bulgaria, which is also my constituency. Probably this question and this case looks like a private case. I really hope he's isolated. It concerns the employment relations of employees in front of a foreign investor residents of the city. Lom. For him and for this problem I was referred to in the conduct of my reception for citizens in the city. Lom, which received a signal of unpaid remuneration for workers in the company "Manifacturer Fortete" Ltd., Lom, Montana District. It's a little specific. By February 2014, more than 200 workers were in employment with the aforementioned company and after that date their employment relationship was terminated with one month's notice. Until now, the salaries due have not been paid, as well as their compensation before registration at the Bureau of Labour. In this regard, my question to you is: have any signals been received in the Labour Inspection in relation to the case described above, have measures been made and have the competent authorities taken with regard to infringements of labour law and non-payment of wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u96	Here you go, Mr. Mikov. Now I give you my word. [[Noise and shouting in BSP LB.]] Colleagues, I have due respect for you when I gave the floor to Dessislava Atanasova, then you requested a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And we respectfully urge you, perhaps after the answer is completed, to establish the 57 signatures I have said, and should be at least 48, and in accordance with art. 101 I will ask you, so that there is no tension, to schedule a debate on the subject. It is regulated, the procedure is known in parliamentary practice. It's not some hostile act against the Minister. Moreover, the minister himself said he wanted this subject to be put to a parliamentary discussion. A draft budget is currently under discussion for next year. If we go in the fall, the Treasury will tell us there's no money for the babies, no money left, they're distributed. That is why we insist on compliance with the Rules and on the grounds of art. 101 to set up these debates. I believe that there is no party in the National Assembly that opposes the discussion of such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u98	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. In accordance with art. 101 debates shall be scheduled for the next plenary session designated for parliamentary control. I will pass on to the Presidential Council and to the next parliamentary control we will announce debates on the agenda. [[Loud noise and shouting in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u99	How's the next one?! It has to be done now!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u100	I am calling for a subsequent parliamentary review to be called upon to debate on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] The second question is from the MP Emil Dimitrov Raynov concerning unpaid salaries and termination of employment of nearly 200 seamstresses from the town of Lom. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in recent days in the media space, repeatedly publicized the same disturbing case, which was quoted by colleague Desislava Atanasova with the employer's salaries "Manifacturer forte" Ltd. of nearly 200 seamstresses from the town of Lom and termination of their employment. According to the workers, the former employer owes them between BGN 1000 and BGN 2000. to each of them. Visible from reports broadcast even on national media, workers worked during working hours, which significantly exceeds the normal duration of work, at statutory working hours under the Labour Code. As we know, the tailoring industry is one of the main livelihoods in Northwestern Bulgaria, especially in Montana, which is also my constituency. It is also well known that wages in this area are very often close to the minimum wage for the country, and workers work under poor working conditions. In view of the above, please reply to the following: First: Is there a mass dismissal within the meaning of § 9 of the Additional Provisions of the Labour Code at the end of the labour force of the nearly two hundred seamstresses in the Forts and what actions have your subordinate bodies taken in relation to the mass dismissal and protection of the interests of the workers? Second: what actions has the Department of Labour Inspectorate taken in relation to the outstanding remuneration of the "Manifacturer Fort Forts" Ltd over a period of six months? Third: Have previous checks been carried out by the Department of Labour Inspectorate "Montana," for the alleged violation of the labour legislation by the "Manifacturer forte" Ltd. and what is the result of these checks? What actions will you take as Minister of Labour and Social Policy to improve working conditions and respect the working hours of persons employed in the tailoring industry?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Raynov? Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, for a general answer to both questions within six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps in half a minute of the six minutes I will say that I am very pleased that three of the parliamentary groups have requested a debate on demographic policy. It would be nice, as I will continue to suggest, that this debate is linked to the Strategy, to what is being done during the year and measures, and not one day to take part in a debate. I hope that we will enable people to understand what is being done, what is not being done and what the needs of the whole society are. It's not a party problem, it's a public problem. If the state decides to further stimulate the birth rate, then we will discuss whether 56 million should go through diapers or some other form. I am really pleased with the desire and the timing, Mr. Chairman, for such a debate. To Mrs. Atanasova's question and Mr. Raynov's question. The company "Manifacturer forte" Ltd has been working on the territory of Lom, Montana District for approximately 20 years now. For this period, it has been checked repeatedly by the Labour Inspection, and for the time prior to 2015, problems with delayed or unpaid wages have not been identified. At present, the company is not operating because in April there has been a mass dismissal procedure. It was launched in February of this year, and on February 27th the company informed the Department of Labour (Office of Labour) of the upcoming mass dismissal and, at the beginning of March, the Labour Bureau announced the initiation of a procedure of the Labour Inspection in Montana. On 10 March 2015, the Inspection carried out a verification of the procedure carried out which found that the basic legal requirements were met. A failure has been established in shaping the notification to the Employment Agency for the removal of which the employer has been given a mandatory prescription. Within that time limit, the same has been fulfilled and the non-compliance allowed has been removed. In relation to the main infringements relating to unpaid wages, the Labour Inspection has taken the following actions: an inspection at the beginning of March, which I have already mentioned, has found that the salaries of workers for the month of January due by the end of February have not been paid. In order to remedy the infringement, a prescription was given mandatory for the execution of a period of 20 March. Meanwhile, two signals for paid salaries have been received in Montana's Labour Inspection since March and has been signed by 122 workers and the second one by the employees' representative of the enterprise since the beginning of April this year. The subsequent verification carried out at the end of March found that the salaries for January 2015 were paid. Following this case, the Inspection carried out monthly control of the payment of the remuneration due. Six further checks have been carried out, where no remuneration has been paid for the months of February, March and April. Although measures have been taken by labour inspectors in due time and mandatory prescriptions have been given, the employer has not paid the due wages for which he has been subject to property penalties within the prescribed time limits. With effect from 4 March 2015, the workers of the "Manifactura forte" Ltd were in stay under the orders of the managers and were not employed. During this period they were charged a wage, but the same was not paid. At the end of April 2015, 198 workers' employment contracts were terminated in the framework of the completed mass dismissal procedure, which is why, at the moment, the labour inspectorate's options for action against the employer for payment of remuneration have been exhausted, as the company has already carried out the mass abbreviation and the workers have been released. For the workers, the possibility remains for them to file their financial claims in a court order and the possibility to make such claims is settled, including both in the general application and in the rapid proceedings provided for in the Civil Procedure Code. On your questioning of the measures to be taken as minister for improving working conditions, I should point out that the control tool is a Master Labour Inspection; as I mentioned, they have done regular checks, including work-related times when there have been signals. When infringements have been detected, appropriate penalties have been imposed on the management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. The people's representative Dessislava Atanasova has the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am partly satisfied with the answer and I cannot help but stress that the state, in the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Labour Inspection and all subordinate services responsible for violations of labour law, have done their job, as you have also stated in respect of the checks carried out on alerts and in respect of the checks carried out for violation of labour discipline and outstanding remuneration. I say I am partly satisfied because in practice the problem at the moment neither of us nor of you manages to solve it. In other words, the legislative and executive powers are powerless. Only those 200 women who have not received their wages and benefits for months have left to expect retribution from the judiciary. I'd say one more thing. They shared with me that they lacked the means to conduct such cases, although the work cases were free of charge. Here I can engage, I suppose, and the other colleagues would help with legal, legal services bringing these claims, because for a settlement such as Lom this means 200 families without livelihood; this means probably 200 children, 200 students who will be deprived of either a summer camp or will be deprived of the purchase of the most necessary for the new school year. I very much hope that this is indeed a precedent that this is a private case and that all the investors we are trying to attract, including with the new measures under the European programmes and the additional scoring and evaluation of projects in Northwestern Bulgaria, will have a different attitude towards the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased with the answer I have heard. I am also glad that I heard in the context of the previous question that this thing is not from now on, not from yesterday, not from the last 20 years. The problem is from now on, the problem is solved in part, but from here on really remains the commitment of all institutions in particular and the MPs with what we can help so that people can really get their rightful reward. Indeed, for the poorest region of Lom, 200 workers, 200 families is a big problem. I also hope that you, as you promised, will take the problem into your hands so that future cases of such cases will not be allowed by future investors, who most often under investment mean profit on the back of Bulgarian workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u108	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Kalfin, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Atanasova and Mr. Raynov, I would like to address investors in Bulgaria as well as national and foreign. It is about an investor who has been working for 20 years and has been impeccable and indeed in one of the regions with the highest unemployment rate. Perhaps if we asked him why he was shutting down his business, he would say, "Because the wages are increasing." You know about our efforts to increase minimum wage and minimum income. Massively in tailoring enterprises pay minimum wages. This effort, I would like to say to employers and investors, will continue because an economy that relies on low incomes, on minimum wages, on low qualifications cannot be competitive. There's always gonna be someone in the world who's even cheaper to produce something. So the trend must be very clear and it must be an increase in incomes and investors should therefore look for opportunities not through minimum wages and cutting labour costs, but through additional investments to be competitive in Bulgaria as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Before moving on to the questioning of Mr. Slavi Binev, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group "Ataka" has the floor of Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would not take the floor, but I am challenged by the historical events that are being played in the building of the Bulgarian Parliament. That is to say, the continuation of a search for what is called an agreement to raise 180 votes. Why? To make a judicial reform. What kind of judicial reform is being made? Together with my colleagues, we have checked, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, and in the smallest villages of Bulgaria. We've discovered that there is only one question that people are concerned about right now, nothing else. In every household tavern, in every village there people gather and discuss whether to vote secretly or openly in the Supreme Judicial Council. This is the issue today in front of the Bulgarian society. For this reason, I can no longer be silent and take the floor to express my attitude. My attitude to this is this. Let the Supreme Judicial Council decide whether to vote secretly or openly. But definitely, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the issue that excites Bulgarian citizens today. The questions facing the Bulgarian society are: Why does domestic crime continue? Why do those who work hard and try to feed themselves continue to be robbed? Why does the injustice in Bulgaria continue to have oligarchs and to have many poor people? Why is there no work for young people? Why are pensions so low and why can't you heal, and when you go to the hospital to heal you have to pay and you can die even in front of the hospital if you don't have to pay? These are the questions that stand before the Bulgarian society. However, the Bulgarian Parliament is dealing with Ve-Se-Se-Se on how many allowances to be divided, prosecutors and judges and who in an even place to stand, who is oddly divided. This is the question of the questions about which is constantly flowing behind the scenes at the moment. The shuttles continue from office to office, room to room, and voices gather. 180 pieces must be collected so that changes in the Constitution can be adopted, which do not excite any normal Bulgarians. I ask: Why bother and why waste expensive parliamentary time to bother the Bulgarian public with non-essential issues? Why do you represent this as a judicial reform? Why is this theater being played? Why does the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mrs Mogherini, come here and imitate a meeting with the parliamentary forces? Yesterday, a parody was played, which did not give the floor at all to the MPs and to us, as chairmen of parliamentary groups, to ask the lady in question. For example, I wanted to ask her when the European Union and the European Commission will pay the compensation of over a billion, which she owes us for the damage we suffer because of the idiotic sanctions with Russia that have been imposed on us by force? When and why will the European Union and the European Commission really intervene to put a barrier and not to forbid us from blocking the way of illegal immigrants here? These questions have remained unanswered because the Parliamentary President has recently stopped the meeting with Mogherini and these questions have failed to be asked. It was a travesty, a farce. A parody that is played by both sides from Brussels and Sofia. From Brussels, they say: "Make judicial reform! " Sofia says: "Yes, we are doing judicial reform. Why is that necessary? Who needs it, and why is there a hurry? To take account of some activity to say that here we are making reforms. At the same time, the police are a rotten structure. At the same time, we read every day about cops racketeering people to take money from them. We read about police officers perjuring themselves. Personally, I've seen this with my own eyes. We read about policemen beating up minors and girls or at the same time those policemen who, like Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde during the day are policemen, at night they are gangsters and we are talking about the Supreme Judicial Council. We see judges who are custom-made, we see a judge who is ordered to sentence me to pay a huge sum of 180 thousand. BGN because the Prime Minister was offended by one of my sentences. Well, the people's representative of the Constitution has the right to make a statement and he is not subject to a penalty for his statements. Also, I have said something that has already been mentioned in at least ten newspapers. But there's the judge in question and she's judging me. There is also a second, which also confirms this madness, this legal insanity. This absurdity in justice is played out every day and every hour, and it doesn't matter if you're a MP, a citizen without immunity or whatever. Justice isn't working right now, the police are more of a mafia than the police, and all we're talking about here is an illusion, an illusion. Who are we lying to? The Bulgarian people believe that we are making judicial reforms. I mean, you do, because we can't join those repairs that are even written in step, on the knee. How can you write a knee amendment in the Constitution?! Tell me! This is the most important law, the basic law of the state. Therefore, our attitude is categorically negative towards these amendments, which are trying to make the government and their satellites, to this agreement, which now gathers supposed opponents in the political space. We can see the DPS and the Patriot Front side by side. They were supposedly opponents, one would ban others, remove them from the political scene, now hug and stand behind these so-called changes in the Constitution. We see the same backstage, which was when this office was formed, when from room to room, from office to office were walking with the same shuttles, positions were offered, benefits were offered, and now this continues. All of this is called judicial reform. We call it deception, we call it travesty, we call it delusion of public opinion. Such delusion is not necessary and I think that it will only disgust the Bulgarian society, will make it believe even less in the political system and even less to go to vote. After all, there will be only those paid votes with which the managers work very well with the groups, the brokers are ready and the local elections are also prepared. We'll be witnessing an election in the fall. There's no doubt about that. We will be witnessing an already confirmed purchase and manipulation of the electoral vote and we will be witnessing a parody of democracy. This will lead to questions among the Bulgarian voters, the Bulgarian public: Do we even need elections? Is such a political system even necessary? Because here the owners and their satellites and satellites are very afraid of the phenomenon of Syriza, and have written and spoken many stories about how this is a populism and not to delude ourselves in this way, I think that I do not know whether Syriza is going to succeed in Greece, but the Bulgarian Syriza "Siriza" or the Bulgarian attempt to break the scenario of political oligarchy may prove much more successful, although not so externally stated as with the Greeks. The Bulgarian experience is known for being patient, only when he gets angry and goes, then he really goes and there is nothing against him. He conquered the impregnable fortresses of Edirne, 1913. So, ladies and gentlemen of government who think that you are now making reforms and because of them you will be pat on the shoulder, will accept you in Schengen as if this could be a political goal, and will leave you to rule because you will prove your obedience, you make a curved account because you do it without the pubman. The innkeeper is in all cases called the Bulgarian people. He looks at you, sets up your hat and waits for the day when he will say his great not Ohi. He will not, the Bulgarian, not the rotten, corrupt political system. That's what I wanted to tell you, although the room is empty. The cameras must be showing it. There are no 180 agreeators here who now want to sign and tell Brussels how obedient they are. Because yesterday's meeting with Mogherini and the disgraceful act for the award of the American ambassador with the Order of the Old Mountains...... for making us part of the front line proves the fall of the Bulgarian ruling class. I don't know if it can go any further down. From now on, there is only a lifting of the Bulgarian spirit, and from now on there is only resistance, from now on a process for changing the political system. We will, as always, be in the vanguard of this trial. We've never run away from this, we've proven it, we're consistent and we'll still be there in front when we have to show what needs to be done in Bulgaria in order to be a decent people. We can still do this. In a year or two, it might be too late. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u112	Thank you. Asked by the MP Slavi Penchev Binev about demographic policy and measures to deal with youth unemployment. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop the questioning within three minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I know there will be a duplication of questions because they have already been asked by the BSP group, but this is a topic that was extremely important and is part of the Patriot Front Programme. So I'm going to try to add some of the details that my colleagues may have missed. I will not dwell on the horrific demographic crisis that rages across Bulgaria. However, it is born of two facts: not only are no more children born than people unfortunately rest, but just many people leave our country. Over 70-80,000 people leave the country annually. A question must already be asked here, which may not be solved only by the Social Ministry. This is the complex of measures that must be taken by the entire government. Because it's not just social bonuses or social benefits that can hold people back. There are also justice, there is crime, there are also many other problems that actually create the attitude of young people towards the life they need to live. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we, in fact, together with some of the other parliamentary groups, have initiated a debate on this issue, which must be held in the National Assembly, as this must be a complex of measures that must be taken and seek the solution not only through the Social Ministry, but indeed at a broader level. To have a real strategy. My question to you is much more simple. In an understandable language, I want you to tell the cameras of the entire television station which, in your opinion, are the measures that need to be taken and implemented as a government strategy to resolve this problem. I do not think that, with various decorative measures, it can be a set of bonuses for children or the removal of VAT, it can only be a set, it can be a detail of a much larger, much more serious strategy. But the strategies seem to be in a more understandable language. Therefore, I ask you in a really popular language to say what the first three points you think the government needs to make so that people can not be detained here but be attracted and remain in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u114	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Kalfin, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u115	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am glad that the subject of demography is really starting to become more important to Parliament. I would like to thank you for the question and your parliamentary group that invited me, and I mentioned it just now, without saying its name, to discuss particular topics related to demographic policy. There were many good ideas that I think could be included in future plans. Mr. Binev, I will start with some statistics, which is why you will probably smile when you hear it, as I did when I saw it, but this shows the statistics. In fact, from 2001 to 2011, the population of Bulgaria decreased by about half a million. 331 people. The difference between mortality and birth rates is two thirds of the reduction. This is due to about 390 thousand. Souls. And just notice,.... 175 thousand. 244 people are believed to have emigrated from the country. We are talking about the ten-year period from 2001 to 2011. We are all witnessing that there are still extremely many young people, and it is young people who are either educated or looking for a good education that connects both education and their realization with going to another country. I'm glad there's going to be a debate on that next Friday. It is difficult for me within the five minutes I have to give a detailed answer, but if we try to put ourselves in the shoes of these young people who leave the country and do not stay here, we will see that there are several problems ahead of them. One problem is the opportunity for them to see career prospects and good pay in the country. Therefore, the subject of wages and wages, I will not stop talking about it. The salaries in Bulgaria, their overall level, should be increased. I know all the considerations of employers related to competitiveness and so on. The previous question about the Montana seamstress is a good example. It cannot be because of the increase of the minimum wage suddenly the employer says I am uncompetitive, with the low wages paid in Bulgaria. There's no way this thing can be stable. From a young man's point of view, it is indeed an important incentive. Second, education should be prestigious enough in Bulgaria. When I say prestigiously, I mean with education in Bulgaria to be able to convert it, to be able to go out, to work abroad, to go back. There are professions where our education is very good. I'll take medicine, for example. There, for the moment, in the government, we are making huge efforts, including with special programs, to keep the young medics who are now completing their education, not to go immediately abroad, at least to specialize in Bulgaria, to start working and so on. The same applies to medical personnel, average medical personnel. These are specific examples that show that the level of pay, perspective and education that provides such quality of life is very important. Next, especially in working young families, is the issue of raising children. This morning I opened a conference organised by the Council of Women in Business, with a very interesting presence by leading American organizations in defence of women's rights. There are extremely many problems for a working mother to decide to give birth and to be able to raise her child, starting from the lack of places in kindergartens and nursery. I don't really know if by reducing the price of diapers this issue will be solved. Women want to have the opportunity to work and the child to be raised. We know that in Sofia and in large cities this is extremely difficult. We are now trying to take measures related to flexible working hours, with help at home, with vouchers and so on, to release time. On one statistic of the European Institute for Equal Rights, which explores six criteria for women's equality, Bulgaria is last in relation to the so-called unpaid work. It's homework, homework, and all kinds of hard work. There are five countries behind us in this ranking, but especially in terms of time that women have for career development, we are last. Here is another question that should be resolved and which we are trying to solve with all forms of more flexible and working hours, and help to raise children in the home. Since I'm starting to flash my light for five minutes, I think we're going to continue this debate, but there's an awful lot of things. I can also tell you specific figures about youth employment. Indeed, income, prospects, education, and children at school may be in the same sentence, saying the things our country really needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. I give the floor to the MP Slavi Binev to ask up to two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, your answer makes me believe that right now really was the time to raise this question, because I see that there is virtually no clear and specific strategy on this issue for solving these problems, because we all really know and are wandering around in their solution. Personally, I think it is important to take extremely bold measures, to seek some sort of Solomon solution, and only with small measures will not be able to solve this huge social problem at the moment. I think that we need to look for a very large funding for young couples and people who want to raise children in general. This can happen when there is really European support, and not only financial support, but also logistical support. That is to say, the measures that will clearly be discussed at the next parliamentary control should be linked to a delegation of opportunities to seek out at all the options in which it is through youth programmes, whether through other opportunities, to seek the solution to this huge social problem, at the moment which is unfortunately extremely valid for our country. I think that's what needs to be done. I do not have much of a question at the moment, and I have more recommendation to look for a complex of solutions to these problems because, I think, the whole social sphere can solve the problem of posing is not just the fall of prices or additional funding and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u118	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Kalfin, you are welcome to answer the supplementary questions that were not quite well formulated, but as a perspective it was well put.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For one thing I disagree, Mr. Binev, that the government does not know what it is doing. I think we know what we are doing and in terms of income, the tool is raising the minimum wage, which we are doing very vigorously; and in terms of opportunities related to the free time for raising children that we are doing in the Labour Code that you have adopted; and in other measures that we will offer you. See also birth and mortality data from last year. Last year, around 109 thousand died in Bulgaria. people, and they were born about 67 thousand. 500 kids. Almost half are the children who are born in relation to the deceased. Changes in the health care system. Of course, they should lead to better healthcare and address this problem, because in Bulgaria the issue of mortality, especially with early mortality, is related to a really better health system. At the moment, a number of programmes are being implemented for young people. I wasn't going into numbers, I'm just going to mention a few in the latest employment agency data. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in six years since 2009. Last year, jobs were provided that led to a total reduction in youth unemployment by 14 700. Last year, it was 72,000. Young unemployed, and now 58,000. There are programmes that relate to youth employment under European programmes. At the moment, three such programs are open. About 19,000 young people have started working on the primary labour market since the beginning of this year. Another five thousand are included in subsidised employment. The share of unemployed young people to 29 years of age fell to 6.3% of total unemployment, last year was 7.4 percent. There are three open European programmes and another one is to be opened in the autumn, which is related to training and employment for young people specifically aimed at youth unemployment. So measures there are, they result, but then when we talk about demographic processes they are much heavier, slower, clumsier. Here I would not say that we should share in large and small measures, but in long-term measures and perseverance in the policy of the state. Only then will we see the good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u120	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to express your attitude towards the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be as clear as I can. It's about this. In fact, at the second reply of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have received the desired answers: what are the real measures that I intend to take the government, because the first time we have only stated the problems that there are, and we all know who they are, and what would possibly lead to their decision, and not what the steps that the government intends to take. I know about the operational programs that are currently running and I'm crossing your fingers to really deliver results, because in the end maybe this is a large part of the panacea that we should be looking for when solving these problems. Certainly many of the results that can be obtained are in your ministry. I hope this will be done in a most understandable way for the audience, which can be used by European funds. This is extremely important. I believe that the next time there is a debate on this issue, the issues will be resolved at a cardinal level, where we will ultimately know which levers we will have to move to move this problem. These are definitely the levers of operational programmes and funding from Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u122	Thank you, Mr. Binev. I thank Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for demographic and social policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Answer to a question from the National Representative Slavi Penchev Binev about the annual program will give Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy. Mr. Binev, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! I would like to ask: what is the annual programme for 2015 in relation to the information campaign called the Communication Strategy of your ministry? What goals has she set, and how can she prove to be effective? I hope this time you will really understand the questions and give an accurate answer to these questions, because in fact this is a rephrased question from the last time I did not get the real answer. On the website of the Managing Authority and the Ministry of Economy there is no such program or is in a highly inconspicuous place where it can hardly be found. Should it not be at the end of each calendar year or at the beginning of the calendar year that such programme should be adopted and published, at least in order for different media and advertising agencies to be auctioned, if any. Also to describe the objectives to be achieved by this advertising campaign. I would like to know, after the tragic experience of the previous programming period, whether the employees of the Managing Authority have passed further trainings and whether new employees have been employed to ensure a more qualitative, more accessible and more understandable Information Strategy? In view of the many mistakes and problems of recent years, it is important to begin to bear personal responsibility by those who have not done the tasks, because I do not want to hear how everything has been done, but the results have not been achieved. I want to hear how it's done so that everything is done properly. My question to you is: do you share this idea that there should be penalties for employees who have not achieved efficiency and have not achieved the goals of the ministry that they have set themselves? And is there even such a purpose? After all, do you not think that you should be responsible if the systems in your ministry are not functioning? Why are millions spent on communication strategy and people don't know anything? That's the question. We can go out with you and ask the people outside if they know who the operational programs are at the Ministry of Economy. I would like to have an answer to all the questions asked, because people know very well that if it is corruption, it is treatable in some way, but if it is not understood, I can tell you that this is absolutely incurable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u124	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! At the beginning, I would like to make a very important clarification. During the new programming period, unlike the old one, where each operational programme had its own communication plan, all operational programmes now have a single national communication strategy. They are approved by the European Commission and are coordinated by the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers. Within this common strategy, each operational programme shall develop an annual action plan describing specific information and communication activities during the calendar year. The Annual Action Plan of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness 2014 " 2020" was developed in the implementation of the National Communication Strategy for the Communication Period 2014-2020 as well as in the implementation of Regulation 1303 of 2013. At the end of May 2015 the OPEC's annual plan was agreed with the Central Coordination Unit of the Council of Ministers and on 11 June at a meeting of the first OPEC Monitoring Committee the same was approved and published on the website of the managing authority of the operational programme in the "New Programme Period 2014 " 2020." The annual plan for 2015 also lists the following information and communication activities: organization and implementation of information events, seminars and training in relation to open grant award procedures, development of information materials promoting the implementation of the programme, promotion of the operational programme in electronic printers and Internet editions, conduct of sociological surveys and development of a new website for OPIC. Information on all upcoming operational programme events shall be published regularly on the website of the Managing Authority in the section "News" as well as on the website of the Ministry of Economy. For example, as soon as the first production capacity approval procedure with small and medium-sized enterprises was announced, a broad information campaign for its presentation was launched, which took place throughout the country from 11 May to 21 May. A team of experts of the managing authority was in place in the cities of Vratsa, Tarnovo, Varna, Burgas, Plovdiv and Sofia. A second day was held in the capital because of the great interest. Regarding the possibilities, here I quote a sample of your question, various media and advertising agencies to appear at auction, if necessary, I will explain to you that the information for opening public procurement procedures is published in the public procurement register on the website of the Public Procurement Agency, as well as the buyer's inspection profile on the website of the Ministry of Economy. All information and communications activities are subject to the Public Procurement Act and in particular to the buyer profile. At this stage, two procurement procedures have been published in the implementation of the annual action plan that we are talking about. About the training of information and publicity officers. Each year, the Management Authority shall draw up a training plan. In 2013 and 2014 employees of information and publicity have passed two specialized trainings. In conclusion: I share your view that each employee should be personally responsible for his actions. As a lawyer, I would like to make it clear to you that the guilty violation of the duties is grounds for imposing disciplinary measures under the Law on the Civil Service Officer. The implementation of disciplinary liability, including mine, could be cumulative with the application of administrative or criminal liability in the event that it is established in the proper order that an act constitutes an administrative infringement, [[the President signals that time has run out]] And through it, a criminal offense has been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You'll have plenty of time to finish up if you like. Mr. Binev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! I'll try to be even more specific, though I don't know how to do it anymore. It's a matter of necessity. It's about this. This money may have been spent right by the rules approved by the European Union. I'm talking about appropriateness. What is the effect that has been achieved? It is clear that they have been spent, it is clear that you have done so by rules that you will not violate because you are a lawyer. I'm talking about what effect has been achieved. The effect is just as much! You and I can go out and ask, and here we'll even ask the people in the parliamentary room who should be one of the most informed people! Let's not talk nonsense! It's worth millions! If people find out what this is about, they will understand that every single person needs to be informed in person, to have a personal assistant inform him about the information programs, and not to throw them into any hard-to-reach sites or hard to find. They should be friendly! To be done in ways that lead you in the right direction. I want you to come out with your hand on your heart and say: yes, the goals and effect that we have wanted are achieved! Because it doesn't matter if the money is spent by the rules, here we'll talk about statistics, about approval from Europe, so I don't know what you are and so on. The goals that have been achieved have given really this money a few million that are in your... A few tens of millions, by the way, which will be spent by you. This basically means that every resident of our country needs to be informed about the programmes that are ending, which are starting, about the ways in which it can apply, what is the profile that it can meet. And I can guarantee you here with my hand on the heart that these goals have not been achieved! And I want you not to read me the answers, but to answer me from the heart and say: we have problems, we have not achieved the goals and effects that we have set. At the moment, it's the same for me. I guess it's different for you. We watch different TVs. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u128	Thank you. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger. I want you to finish the answer as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Binev! I respect your personal subjective opinion regarding the appropriateness, but when we are talking about appropriateness, we must, when we are talking about administrative violations and penalties, talk about whether the legality has been respected. Now I will take my subjective opinion on the appropriateness with my hand on the heart, as you have emotionally spoken. I will try to be more cool and I will tell you: whether the objectives have been achieved during the programming period and whether the sites are difficult to access in a noticeable place, this, of course, is still a personal assessment, but the recommendations from the European Union, not to say the mandatory recommendations, are that we need to go to electronic application on all operational programs. Obviously, the people who apply should deal with the so-called sites that were hard to access. And as for the hand of the heart and the judgment, I will tell you only one thing: on the first axis we have nearly 1,000 proposals submitted despite all black forecasts. It seems that people manage to cope, the appropriateness seems to be good, and we seem to have more effect on the campaign than expected. Now that's the unsubstantiated judgment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Since this was the only question to the Minister of Economy Mr. Lukarski, let's wish him a pleasant job. We move on to questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov on the expiry of the deadline provided for in the Energy Act for buying-in from the ERPs of energy sites and facilities, which are an element of the network, which must be owned by licensed energy enterprises. Mr. Bojinov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u132	You should have waited for me to give you the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman! The last few weeks there has been a lot of talk about curbing electricity prices, and attention has been focused mainly on electricity producers and mainly on restrictions and options for price reduction have been sought in state-owned companies for electricity production. It is strange for me that out of this public effort remained the field of transmission and distribution of electricity. My question was asked two months ago. It states that on 9 December 2015 the last time limit for buying up old energy facilities and facilities from the ERPs representing an element of the network expires. Under the Energy Act, these elements of the transmission system, which belong to other entities and were not owned by the seller of electricity companies, had to be redeemed by the new investor by 9 December 2011. Eight years gave the law. This did not happen, the law was not implemented and the Bulgarian Parliament extended this period to 12 years, so at the moment those built before 9 December 2003 have another 3-4 months to be bought out. The question is what happens after this deadline. Twice changes the deadline in the interest of the ERPs. The law does not provide for any sanctions if the obligations are not met. Thus for 12 years the ERPs have used foreign facilities to provide services for which their customers pay, and the owners of facilities are subjected to humiliations, sometimes to abuse. Dear Minister, I am a Member of Parliament from the Vrachanski Election Region. This is the territory where CEZ works. This company does not comply with the statutory terms and conditions laid down. After 12 years of foreign ownership use, the ERPs state to some of the owners that these are depreciated facilities that are no longer of interest to them and they will replace them with their own when they consider and have the opportunity to do so. This set-up opens up a new cycle of abuse. In other words, they have no interest in spending their own money to modernise the facility The losses are paid by consumers. I ask you, one sentence: do you consider it appropriate to regulate by law that after the ERPs have not purchased the facilities within the statutory period, pay rent or fee for the entire period during which they used these facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u134	Mr. Bojinov, I'm addressing you and all my colleagues! I am tolerant of the question that you have asked is extremely important, but let us still fit in in time. Come on, 10-15 seconds, but a minute and a half more... Due to the importance of the matter, I have left you. I call on all my fellow Members to observe the Rules of Procedure. There have been old questions for many months, colleagues are waiting, and because some are talking longer, there will be colleagues who will not be able to ask themselves the question in today's control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u135	I accept, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u136	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bozhinov! The obligation to purchase equipment forming part of the electricity distribution company network is regulated in the relevant regulations. It's the Energy Act. According to § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Energy, Energy and Facility Act, representing elements of the transmission or distribution network concerned, which, at the time of the entry into force of this Act, namely 9 December 2003, must be owned by the licensed energy undertakings, but are owned by third parties, that provision provides that they are bought out by the transmission or distribution undertaking concerned within 12 years of the entry into force of the Energy Act. In other words, as you rightly pointed out by 9 December 2015 they should be acquired by licensed energy enterprises. Such an obligation does not exist if those energy undertakings build their own facilities in exchange for existing ones. Energy objects and facilities under § 4, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Energy Act are purchased at their market value. It should be borne in mind that the acquisition of energy facilities and facilities is entered into the terms of the licences issued to each electricity distribution company and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory is the institution which controls the performance of that obligation. If the Commission finds that the electricity distribution undertaking concerned does not fulfil that obligation, it shall be the same on the basis of art. 206, para. 1 of the Energy Act is competent to carry out administrative criminal liability, with the intended financial penalty of at least 200 thousand to 1 million. lv. To date, the term of § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Energy Act have not expired and the obligation of the electricity distribution companies to purchase energy objects and facilities has not been exhausted. In addition, it should be stressed that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has an obligation to control the development of electricity networks for the benefit of all participants, ensuring sufficient and available for all capacity. Regarding the payment of rent by the energy undertakings which have not fulfilled § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Energy Act, as you know, the obligation to pay rent or compensation for the use of foreign property is the subject of a regulation of civil law, respectively of the Law on Obligations and Contracts and the Law on Property. Claims for benefits under this order for the use of foreign goods may be lodged after the expiry of the statutory time limit for the purchase of energy objects and facilities, i.e. after 9 December 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u138	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Bojinov, line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u139	Dear Minister, everything you said was true. It's nice, but it doesn't happen, even though it's prescribed by the law. That's not true. No Civil Procedure Code is acting as art. 117, para. 8 of the Energy Act has defined the order to pay rent to these facilities and when no agreement is reached, it goes to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, it deals with silent refusal and the court refuses to deal with these issues. We discussed this yesterday in your absence. As for the fact that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission imposes sanctions, here I am looking at an audit report on the activities of the ERP which I strongly urge you to read. There it is written that only one ERP is, well, notice, it saved 142 million. 948 thousand. BGN that predicted and KEWRC approved him in the price of electricity, which the Bulgarian consumers paid, technological expenses and after they had not spent these funds, which were recognized to him, it saved 142 million. lv. Now it has saved them well, but tomorrow when the poles and the wires start to fall, the question arises who will pay for this money saved by the ERP?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u140	Who?! The state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u141	And the Bulgarian people will pay them again. See what else they've saved, only here they call it the additional revenue of the company.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u142	I'm reminding you of the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u143	Since they are recognized as costs of technical losses, they are greater than the actual ones, and now by not buying up the facilities, Madam Minister, these losses will increase and will be paid again by the people and companies will win. Praise them that they pursue the interests and bitterly and woefully of the Bulgarian people, that their ministers and MPs cannot defend their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u144	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojinov, I'm fully solidarity with you. I fully agree with you, and I will be the last person to welcome this failure to comply with the law. However, there is still time until this provision enters into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u146	Okay, we'll live that time too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u147	Let us also wait from now on if these ERPs fail to fulfil their obligations under law, I believe that the entire burden of the Law should be applied to them so that the real Bulgarian consumers are not harmed in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u148	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Petkova has a lot of questions for her is from the MP Martin Dimitrov about the measures for implementation of art. 84, para. 2 of the Energy Act. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Recently, parliament and the government have taken a number of measures to limit the deficit of the National Electricity Company, first and second, measures to prevent the appreciation of electricity. The main measure was the condition that only high-efficiency cogeneration, i.e. when producing both electricity and steam, should be purchased from the power plants and from the plant plants in a highly efficient way, otherwise they would not receive the high price. Unfortunately, so far over the years it does not matter what and exactly when they produced, they received very high prices, which burdened not only NEK, but it was also a reason for increasing the price of electricity in Bulgaria. For this reason, we wrote in the Law the condition that appliances should be installed to monitor in real time the production of steam from the thermal plants and from the plant plants. The most important question to you, Madam Minister, in this regard is whether such appliances are installed everywhere and whether these appliances have a real connection to the energy system operator, i.e. a real-time connection, so that for each period the amount of steam and electricity produced and paid at the high price only this part, only this component produced in a highly efficient combined manner can be traced? I ask you this question because you were in the Chamber and were witnessed that during the last amendments to the Energy Act, we introduced monthly certificates from the beginning of 2016 and the..... by the end of the year, so it is now urgent that there is control and the meaning of the Law be fulfilled, that there are such appliances to be paid for, as the electrometer of every person at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u150	Thank you. Minister Petkova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Dimitrov! According to the amendment of the Energy Act of 6 March 2015 and in particular Art. 84, para. 7 The Ministry of Energy shall draw up a draft Ordinance on the conditions and manner of fulfilling the obligations of electricity producers from thermal power plants with cogeneration of heat and electricity. The draft regulation went through a public discussion, after which it was promulgated on 14 July 2015 in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 53. The Regulation lays down an obligation for producers of electricity in thermal power plants with cogeneration of heat and electricity to allow for operational control of production parameters by the operator of the network concerned. The electricity system operator is currently receiving real-time operational data only for the electricity produced from cogeneration plants. The production of electricity is consistent with the production of heat and for the same heat load a certain range of electricity production is possible. In order for the electricity system operator to have a physical ability to control in real time whether the production of electricity from these plants is the minimum corresponding to the instantaneous heat load from the thermal power plants, data on steam consumption, pressure and temperature should be transmitted to the network operator, respectively water at characteristic points of the technological scheme depending on the type of cogeneration installation. In order to effectively implement this control, it is necessary for thermal power plants by assignment from the network operator concerned to supply, install and implement appropriate upgrades of existing measuring instruments or replace them with new appropriate and specialised software to enable the transfer of data from them to the network operator. According to § 3, para. 1 of the Ordinance the deadline for compliance with these requirements shall be three months. Allow me only to make one clarification about your question in the part, I quote: to buy only electricity obtained in a highly efficient combined way. Whether the production of electricity from cogeneration plants is highly efficient is determined only after demonstrating a fuel saving of not less than 10%, which is certified by certificates of origin for electricity issued by the Commission for energy and water regulation. As you have mentioned, according to the latest amendments to the Energy Act, starting today in practice by the end of this year, the regulator will have the obligation to issue the abovementioned certificates for a period of three months, as of 1 January of next year respectively, the Law provides for the issuance of monthly certificates. Therefore, according to the Ordinance, such a three-month period is to be given for the relevant public procurement by thermal power plants to supply the necessary software and equipment, they will be installed and the process must be finalised within three months and the electricity system operator must receive from all this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u152	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Mr. Dimitrov, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u153	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I would like to engage you with the following question. The heating is not interested in introducing these appliances because their interest is to produce steam as part of the heating during the winter season, mainly summer, which is contrary to the idea of high-efficiency cogeneration. It's the same as there was an anecdote: one man ate chicken, another cabbage, averaged chicken with cabbage. Well, unfortunately, that works with the tecs. I ask you to engage in the installation of these appliances, i.e. to personally track for the tecs and plant plants the three-month period in question. This means in October 2015. This year, each power plant and each plant plant installed these appliances and paid only what was produced in a highly efficient combined way. Everything else will be paid, but at a much lower price in times lower. That is why I am addressing you because legislative things have been fulfilled. The regulation adopted by you, on which there were notes a number of experts, had a public discussion, was also in good form, but now the implementation of the Law must be monitored. If you are not the controlling authority to remind of the implementation of the three-month period, I am afraid, again, I say that the tecs and plant plants will do everything possible for the entire winter season to not be fulfilled and to continue the old practice of producing steam in winter, summer electricity and medium-term electricity to say that this is their annual production. This seriously damages the National Electricity Company, i.e. the state, and is also a prerequisite for electricity appreciation. The time has come for the Law to be implemented and must be fulfilled, for which your role is very great! In October 2015, the mandallo fell when everyone had to have installed the appliances so that electricity would not have to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I fully support your proposal for control, as only the control that has a function to monitor whether the legal provisions have been implemented is the measure that can force the obliged persons to take the necessary action. I assure you that the Ministry of Energy has initiated and we have an action plan after the expiry of the statutory deadline for the installation of these appliances and we will carry out mass checks at all sites that are committed to carrying out acts under the Law. I assure you that this will be done and I will report on the results of these checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u156	Thank you, Minister Petkova. A question from the National Representative Georgi Todorov Bozhinov concerning the technical condition of the national network and in particular the northern semi-ring from Valchi dol to the gas warehouse. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The national transmission network of Bulgaria is built in the form of two semi-rings of gas pipelines with a total length of 1700 km, with a design working pressure of 54 bar and three compressor stations. The northern semi-ring is 363 kilometers long. With all options, Madam Minister, for a new gas strategy of the country now existing gas network will have a high relative weight, and by 2019 it will still have a defining role for the economy of the country and the standard of living of the Bulgarians. The mature expansion of the gas repository in Chiren, apart from the unbiased.. I stress, the implementation of the technical project of the Czech company, is also necessary for the complete restoration of the project crossing power of the northern ring. By my estimation, the current technical condition of the northern half-ring is disastrous! The working pressure that can be achieved is far below the project "54 bars." I believe that when determining the means and planning of the activities to be carried out, it is necessary to take these realities into account mercilessly! My question to you is as follows: the partial and half measures that are being implemented at the moment by the Bulgartransgaz. Do they ensure the solution of this task, or is the situation toweling and acting primarily for the purpose of the absorption of funds? That's my opinion. If you could convince me otherwise, I would be extremely pleased.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Minister Petkova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, Bulgartransgaz is implementing a support strategy for both the northern semi-ring and the entire National Network for safe operation and provision of the necessary capacity for the transport of natural gas both in the short and long term. The more important activities, diagnostic and repair works performed by the company on the northern semi-ring to improve the technical condition of this part of the network are the following. In 2014 internal tube inspections were carried out in two sections of the northern semi-ring from the National Transport Network: a clean-up facility Valchi dol By 25 June 2015, according to the schedules, the repair activities for 2015 of the sections were completed: Valchi Dol They've been exposed, investigated by undestructive control, evaluated all of the detected defects embedded in the repair program. All defects detected in the repair programme were assessed and examined in the appropriate order. As a result, two sections were replaced, a total of 145 km: one after the Polish Senovets compressor station, and Pleven, through appropriate technology to ensure continuity of gas supply to consumers in the respective sections. The other defects have been repaired according to established technologies by setting up aging composite systems, welding of steel shells and by sand-building and re-isolation. Thus, all planned activities on the National Transmission Network have been completed from the respective Valchi dol to Batultsi facility to ensure that the quantities requested in Chiren are loaded. The implementation of the repair works has not affected or limited the pressures in the underground gas storage. In order to ensure the reliability of the transmission of the northern semi-ring in autumn 2015 "Bulgartransgaz" will perform an internal tube diagnostic of the Beglot section of Novi Iskar, as well as an investigation for the detection of natural gas gaps on part of the National Gas Network. I assure you that Bulgartransgaz is carrying out and will continue to carry out the planned activities of carrying out the necessary inspections and repairs on the northern semi-ring to ensure the design passage power and the normal functioning of the underground gas repository in Chiren. Finally, I am taking this opportunity to inform you that on 14 July this year the European Commission approved the financing of seven key projects in the field of energy infrastructure, and one of these projects is precisely the expansion of the gas storage facility in Chiren. For the 3D seismic studies of Chiren, the European Commission will provide about 4 million to Bulgartransgaz. Euros. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here's your line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, even if all that you are talking about is done, the facility is of such a nature and is kept pressure throughout its length that if everything is not done, nothing has been done to work at this pressure. That's the complexity. That is why it requires that the entire amount be provided and that all the tasks be resolved.. I think it is well understood. As far as Chiren's expansion means are concerned. You've already had the opportunity to tell me that you are working on two programs. Two programs can not be worked on the unbiased recognition and implementation of the only legit program, developed by the Czech company, in order to achieve the real expansion of Chiren! The other programme justifies spending money without necessarily achieving the goals. The Northern arc expansion is also a condition because there is no way to maintain the low level due to technical problems in the transmission network to allow pressure inside the storage, ensuring its optimal expansion. So much for that. And two words on the matter that I would like to withdraw by asking you to give me the written answer to my third question. I believe that you have worked very seriously on preparing the answer and have made very important conclusions for yourself. I remain convinced that my questions have consequences. I will announce only one thing: last time you assured me that quite legally and rightly five acres of levels, in Chiren were bought for 137 thousand. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] After my questioning the next level for the next project was bought at 26 times lower. So it makes sense to my questions, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u162	You're talking about dropping your question, which is sixth in a row.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u163	He's written to give me the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u164	However, in order to do so, the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u165	Is there a pό sign order from the platform?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u166	Great. Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. A question from the National Representative Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev about the future of the project company South Stream Bulgaria. Mr. Boychev, order to develop your first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My first question to you is about the future of the project company South Stream Bulgaria. I recall that on 1 December last year the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin announced the end of the South Stream project. I'm not going back to the debate on how or why this came about. Since then, we have seen numerous of your initiatives, initiatives of the Bulgarian government. I ask the question to answer exactly what concrete actions you have taken with the remaining shareholder in the company.................... about the future prospects of the South Stream Bulgaria.... in particular about the company's statutory capital....................... what is happening with it. Is there a proposal submitted by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which is a 50% shareholder in this company - you are the principal of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, in the General Assembly of Shareholders to reduce the company's capital? I remind you that there was such an order of your predecessor, Minister Schonov. I would like you and the Bulgarian public to answer the question: what funds have been spent after 1 December 2014, paid by the company, and on what grounds, if there is such a type of money to be paid? I would also like to learn: are there any new employees assigned to the company South Stream Bulgaria? If so, what positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u168	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You have formulated about four questions. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, despite the statement made by the President of the Russian Federation, as well as other officials for the termination of the South Stream project, so far the Bulgarian Energy Holding, as a shareholder in the project company South Stream Bulgaria, has not received the official position of the other shareholder Besides the lack of official position, at present the Bulgarian side is not aware of the concrete intentions of the Russian side about the development of the project. In this sense, given the lack of a concrete position of the Russian shareholder on the future of the project, there is no way to take specific prospects for the project company. In view of the above, no actions have also been taken relating to the size of the project company's capital. The Bulgarian side has not ceased to believe that the project is important to us and should be implemented in compliance with the requirements of European legislation. In this sense, without official notification from the Russian side of the termination of the project any steps regarding the change of the status of the project company are premature. The questions about the specific amount of funds spent by South Stream Bulgaria and the appointment of employees after 1 December 2014 form part of the operational activity of the project company and fall within the competence of the company's executive directors. South Stream Bulgaria is an independent business entity, a commercial company whose operating activity does not require prior instructions from the shareholders and their prior approval. The powers of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in relation to the activities of South Stream Bulgaria are limited by the statutes of the project company, the latter covering the more significant issues of its development. The executive directors of the company have full operational autonomy on issues of the current activity of the project company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Boychev, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regret, Minister, I will say that I am not satisfied with the answer you give, as you are through you, you are a Bulgarian minister, you represent the interest of the Bulgarian state, in the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian Parliamentary Tribune should be the place where, in my opinion, our Bulgarian citizens should receive this information. In no way can I accept that someone can stand in a trading company where the state has 50% participation and spend their money and that we are not allowed access to this information. I consider this inappropriate, too, after the statements of the President of the Russian Federation, for so many months that we should be shareholders in a company 50-50 with the Russian side and not take any steps and actions. My question was: have you taken, have you asked for written consent, have you asked for talks, have you asked for a general meeting on this matter? I can't accept that we this company have to keep it hanging in the air and that no one knows what's going on. Regarding my question of employee appointments, I must tell you that it is provoked by the information I receive that employees are employed there. I'm going to ask you to check this information. I will also ask the Bulgarian media to be really interested, because the only positive thing I see is that, as far as I understand it, these are activists of political party GERB and this may be talking about changing the relations and positions towards the realization of South Stream in Bulgaria, so if something is positive, a change in the position and opinion of this party, welcome, but, in my opinion, we are obliged to know if there are such types of people appointed. Otherwise, the more logical question I have to ask you is: why didn't you let them all go on unpaid leave, because the project is essentially suspended or frozen?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u172	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Minister Petkova, come in for the back of Mr. Boychev's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u173	Dear Mr. Boychev, many questions about this project. I understand your interest and the interest of society He is indeed very great. I would like to tell you that I, as Minister of Energy and all my colleagues from the Ministry's team, have not stopped defending the interests of the Bulgarian country in this project. You know that the shareholder there is the Bulgarian Energy Holding with 50% of the capital and, respectively, from the Russian side, the shareholder is the Bulgarian Energy Holding with 50% of the capital. These two shareholders have absolutely equal rights as regards decision-making relating to the operational activity, such as the appointment of employees or their release and the taking of other actions relating to the operation of the company. With regard to what costs are being incurred, I can assure you that the Bulgarian Energy Holding, in its capacity, exercises the necessary control so that we can strictly follow the instructions and penalty procedure that the European Commission launched in June 2014, namely to refrain the joint company from awarding tender procedures related to the implementation of this Project, so that I ensure that this is implemented very strictly and that spending of funds is not allowed. With regard to the fact that it is a secret, almost, in relation to the results of the company, this is not the case. The company is public. He's got his annual financial statements. They shall be published in the appropriate order. There are auditors who validate his annual accounts, so this information is public and everyone can have access to it. I believe that with regard to the participation of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in South Stream, things are controlled and strictly respected both national legislation and European requirements, European legislation in protection, of course, of the national interests of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u174	Thank you, Minister Petkova. The second question of the National Representative Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev is about the duties of the Toplofication "Sofia" EAD. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! And my second question, Madam Minister, to you is always in this direction: to all these efforts we have seen in the last days, namely to look for one or other reserves in the energy system and therefore the first was for the South Stream and what we do with the funds that the Bulgarian state has there, and my second question is about the obligations of the Toplofication Sofia. Madam Minister, I have also had the opportunity to be a representative at the Sofia Municipal Council and in all my years there the topic "Toplofication" has always been on the agenda. You know the many peripets that this company went through to change its shareholder status from state ownership, from 100% ownership of the municipality to the state at the time when the state and the municipality were together, they were shareholders together, at the moment the municipality is the owner again. There have always been a number of working groups, initiatives to solve the problems that are facing. Summer is the time when preparation should begin for the new heating season, so I asked you this question. There has always been a dispute, by the way, between the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which, if it consolidates the entire amount of debt to the "Topplofication" Sofia is reporting in its balance sheets and leads to another size. You know that there have been various disputes there and that is why I would like to receive up-to-date information from you: what is the amount of the obligations of the.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u176	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev! In order to ensure the critical liquidity of the company, with a view to fulfilling the company's obligations, maintaining the security of the energy supply and the normal functioning of the energy system between 2009 and 2015, several contracts for the secession of claims of the company were concluded by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, with real cash transfers made to the Bulgarian Energy Holding for the purchased receivables from the heating plant. Currently, according to accounting data, the liabilities of the Bulgarian energy holding company are at the rate of 560 million. 792,000. BGN 561, including 322 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the 470,000. BGN 561. The claims of Bulgargaz....by..Topplofication....Sofia....are worth 134 million. 202,000. BGN 351. As you rightly pointed out, a number of initiatives and meetings between stakeholders have been organized over the years in order to find a mutually beneficial solution and specify the order and manner of payment of the debts of On January 22, 2015 after a meeting at the Ministry of Energy, a working group of experts of the Ministry of Energy was formed. At a meeting held on 15 May 2015 at the Ministry of Energy between me and the Mayor of Sofia Municipality Mrs. Fandakova with the participation of representatives of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, What we are doing right now is finalizing the parameters of the agreements for repayment of the debts of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. The negotiation process before the Bulgarian Energy Holding, of course, with a corresponding understanding of the public importance of the. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Boychev, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. You can see that the situation is not easy at all.. 560 million liabilities against the background of the entire state of energy, of which about 490 million.......................................................................................... I am pleased that obviously and therefore I did not know that there was a dialogue and the Bulgarian Energy Holding, and Sofia Municipality as a representative of the shareholder, hold talks and seek a solution. My request will be to obtain information when these agreements are finalised to see what the parameters are. However, I still have a number of questions about the future of the company. I do not know, but who and what repayment plan to be proposed when it forms a loss and its financial results for last year are again a loss, I do not know how it will be able to pay any scheme in which you reschedule and satisfy, but as a people representative from Sofia, it is extremely important for me to do all the actions so as to ensure the heat supply and remain this service in the capital. In this direction, we will follow and ask you questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u180	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A hole? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u181	Dear Mr. Boychev, as I mentioned in my reply, we really do realize the importance of Sofia's "Toplofication" - how important strategic site it is. I would like to assure you that in the dialogue that we have with our colleagues from Sofia Topplofication, we are taking into account all possible risks that could arise. Both the dialogue we have and the agreements we are about to finalise are aimed at protecting the interests of both sides and minimizing the risks of any problems related to the heating of the citizens of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. The next question is withdrawn as oral and written answer is requested. This is a question from the National Representative Georgi Todorov Bozhinov concerning the problems thoroughly analyzed in the Ministry of Energy, raised by the Executive Director of the Executive Director of Bulgartransgaz.The letter quoted it as saying to the Minister of Energy. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] However, in the appropriate order, you will request a written reply. I thank the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer two questions from Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. The first question by the MP Slavi Penchev Binev is about advertising campaign. Mr. Binev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, dear colleagues! I am addressing you in connection with a disturbing brochure of the Ministry of Tourism, which advertises Bulgaria as a tourist destination. Bulgaria is advertised as a country where the hunting of protected animals or non-inhabiting the territory of the country is carried out. This outrageous project can only push tourists away. There is an idea of an extremely questionable use of public funds, and the projects themselves do not produce any beneficial results, on the contrary. Have you taken any checks on this case, and what do they find? Will responsible persons bear their responsibility in order to set an example and not come to such cases in the future? I also suggest that you provide the National Assembly, perhaps the Sub-Committee on Using European Funds, a report on the Ministry's advertising campaign. In this way, greater awareness will be achieved on the subject, gaps will be taken into account and additional measures will be identified to speed up and improve the implementation of the campaign. For me, it will be extremely important to know for sure my colleagues, what concrete measures have been taken to promote Bulgaria as an attractive tourist destination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u184	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Angelkova, come in for an answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u185	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, I take the opportunity to inform you that the annual program for national tourist advertising is one of the main strategic documents in the field of national marketing and for the first time Bulgaria will have such a program approved in the middle of the previous year, in which it will be implemented, because in previous years the adoption of the annual program for advertising of the country has been dramatically delayed. Such, unfortunately, is the welded trend, a clear example of underestimating the logic on which tourists from our main target markets plan their holidays. This happens six to twelve months earlier than the specific tourist season. It is precisely the early planning of marketing activities that will allow us to be competitive on the international tourism market. The Ministry of Tourism is already working on the planning and preparation of new information materials to promote our country next year in accordance with the 2016 National Advertising Programme. I believe that you, as an informed MP, are aware of the importance of the responsible attitude to the issue of the time arrangement of the campaign in front of our main target markets. In this sense, the Ministry of Tourism endeavours to end short-sighted and counterproductive practice with the promotion of the tourist season in parallel with its operation. I would like to stress that this is how we are finally beginning to follow the established world trends in the field of tourist marketing. On these strategic issues, I am always available for dialogue with the MPs in order to find the most effective solutions and implement successful market models and practices. With regard to the specific measures to promote Bulgaria as an attractive tourist destination, I inform you that the concept of national tourist advertising prioritizes large-scale activities with a focus on our main target markets. Part of these activities are as follows: targeted use of online marketing tools; strategic partnership with leading tour operators and joint marketing with foreign tour operators on target markets; television advertising, new thematic videos and films with celebrities to promote Bulgaria in their own country; joint activities with low budget airlines; additional printed advertising in specialized tourist and on-board publications; active cooperation with regional tourism structures and branch organisations; PR activities through embassies and tourist representations; partnership during significant international sports and other events; application of the practice of journalistic expedition tours with representatives of targeted potential markets; organization of accompanying events along with the participation of leading international exhibitions. I could speak more on the subject, as it is central, but I respect your will as a Member of the National Assembly, and I will inform you again about the matter of the brochure mentioned by you. I remind you that in the period 27 May 2015 the Ministry of Tourism provided the public and the media with information on the case of the vased brochure. The Diplana "Lov and fishing" was implemented more than three years ago, approved by the then team, who was responsible for portfolio "Tourism" in the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism. The following management team, led by Branimir Botev, concluded Contract No 438 of 28 July 2014 and awarded renewal, layout, printing and delivery of advertising information materials by language versions, position 3, and low-cost advertising materials, printing of circulation, to the company Vyrus promouchenal, including the Dipped............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u186	Thank you. In the back you can probably finish the answer according to Mr. Binev's line. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u187	It is important that it is clarified how such a brochure happened to be printed. More importantly, will there be any responsibilities for those who have dealt with this issue? Why did two, three or more governments, deputies, ministers and so on deal with this issue? It's perfectly normal when one information is transmitted from one person to another to make a mistake. It's a broken phone in any case, and somehow it has to be avoided. Especially about what you said about the country's advertising strategy, this is extremely important because I see what advertising campaigns are taking place in the world. You see the ads of our southern neighbor and in general worldwide what it is about, Dubai and so on. There are many other countries that advertise and throw great money, realizing the role of offering as tourist destinations, and doing it extremely professionally. You remember, there was a very bad example four years ago, when the emblem of Bulgaria was spent over three million and something. This emblem was called a leek omelet. It was actually bought by a site for 40 euros insignia and was slightly upgraded, let's say. It is extremely important not to repeat this because people already have too much information, and to look for the effectiveness of these advertising campaigns and what they will lead to. I would like to ask you: with whom in the industry have you consulted about what needs he has for advertising? The state and industry should form this advertising policy hand in hand and seek together how they can help each other promote our country as a destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u188	Thank you, Mr. Binev. You have the floor, Minister Angelkova, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! To conclude with regard to the brochure that, following the establishment of a separate Ministry of Tourism on my orders, a check has been carried out on all available promotional materials in order to establish their actuality. The file in question was left as archive material in the department warehouse as it should be stored after completion of the project and was not intended for distribution. Employees who are guilty of admitting the additional workmanship and prepressed brochure with false content, improper spending of budget funds and subsequent distribution of the brochure in question are punished. With regard to the 2016 National Tourist Advertising Programme, which basically defines the advertising campaign we are conducting. Yesterday, we held a National Tourism Council, which is in the form that brings together representatives of all departments of the industry, local authorities, where we discuss the Ministry of Tourism's proposals for all activities in which the state will be advertised as a year-round tourist destination and, of course, taking into account this, to end all negative practices, so clearly the whole industry, according to the requirements of the National Tourism Council, participates and takes active attitude on the subject. Alongside that, outside the Council, we have regular meetings with the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u190	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. We move on to the next question addressed to you by the National Representative Ivan Kostadinov Stankov on checking the state and opportunities for effective use of natural resources in the Shabla region. Dear Mr. Stankov, you have two minutes to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Shabla Municipality has unique natural resources that are not used effectively for various reasons. Its sea beaches account for about 22% of all beaches on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. Their total area is about 318 thousand. kv. m. On the territory of the municipality there are thermal mineral springs, salt lake, lagoon t, three freshwater lakes with a wide variety of rare representatives of flora and fauna. On the shore of the village of Tyulenovo are situated interesting rock formations, suitable for the implementation of traditional sea tourism in all its forms. The diversity of flora and fauna in Shabla and Durankulak Lake favor the development of ecotourism. All these objects are in extremely bad shape, neglected. Their opportunities for exploitation and development are becoming increasingly limited. The Municipality of Shabla does not have the means necessary to solve the above problems and to make full use of the natural resources of the region. This is a problem for both residents of the seaside city who cannot exploit the opportunities for livelihood that nature has provided them and for tourists who are deprived of the above-mentioned unique landmarks. My question to you is: will the Ministry of Tourism initiate a check of the state of available bases and will it take appropriate measures to make full and effective use of natural resources in the Shabla region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u192	Thank you, too, Professor. Stankov. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u193	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stankov, first of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Tourism organizes regular meetings with representatives of the tourism industry and representatives of the maritime municipalities. In this sense, I can say that both I personally and my team know well the available base on the Black Sea and what opportunities it provides, including the one in the Shabla region. Undisputed fact is the existence of unique natural resources, the basis for validating the traditional product of sea tourism, as well as the high competitive potential for development, except for the specialized types of tourism listed by you, underwater, yacht and balneoretic and ornithological tourism. For the Ministry of Tourism, the work in partnership with municipalities, the non-governmental and private sectors is of paramount importance and aims to enrich the range of offered tourism products on the basis of specific competitive potential and to improve the quality of the services offered. In this context, targeted measures are being taken by drawing up Bulgaria's investment map in the field of tourism. Thus, in practice, we create an opportunity for targeted promotion of possible investment projects. The most interested, at the same time, our most competent partner for the recovery of local development opportunities are local authorities. In this sense, the Ministry needs feedback in order to avoid a centralised approach and achieve an optimal level of balance, following the set management principle for sustainable tourism development, reducing regional disproportions in supply by creating strong regional brands based on specialised forms of tourism. We are currently collecting project proposals provided by municipalities, with the creation of the investment map being part of an integrated policy for introducing a model for stimulating investment in modernisation of a material base according to the principles of sustainable development. The institutionalisation of this mechanism will be finalised through the steps to turn the Ministry of Tourism into one-stop-shop for strategic tourism investors. The aim is a single communication channel for the implementation of administrative procedures in the interest of strategic investors. In this way, we apply a two-way model of work, on the one hand, by pro-active marketing of already selected investment proposals, and on the other, by exploiting the administrative burden of already interested potential investors. I am convinced that through this approach we will introduce a working and sustainable mechanism that creates conditions for the recovery of the potential for the development of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u194	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. The line is prof. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'm satisfied with him. Indeed, this is a natural wealth, and it must be made the most to be exploited, to be used for its intended purpose. I had the opportunity to tour all these objects. Some of them are capable of being after bombing, extremely severe condition. The request of representatives of the local business is to ease the procedure for buying the adjacent area to the currently existing bungalows and buildings. That doesn't necessarily mean there's going to be some massive construction. Perhaps you will build buildings of lighter type bungalows, small panel houses. So this is a good opportunity. The possibility is also the construction of a tent camp, which will be according to the Bulgarian and European requirements. This is also an alternative option for alternative tourism. The development of a common design plan would help preserve the unique nature by means of light construction. I very much hope, Madam Minister, that you will take this problem to heart and we will seek together in the nearest time a solution to these problems with a view to the maximum use of natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u196	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? No. That concludes your participation today. We wish you a good day. We continue with two questions to the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov. First, there is a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev on the policy of conservation of cultural monuments of national importance. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I appeal to you in connection with the policy that the Ministry of Culture conducts for the protection of cultural monuments of national importance and the restoration of those of them who are in an extremely miserable state. Undoubtedly, much of the cultural monuments in the country are in ruin or have become the target of various attacks. The state of Bulgarian culture continues to be extremely alarming and is looking for various culprits to serve as a front to hide behind them the real culprits who with their criminal inaction do not solve the problems. In addition, it has a very negative impact on the development of tourism, which tarnishes our country's image in front of the world. An example can be given with the state of monuments such as the museum houses of the poets Hristo Smirnenski and Peyo Yavorov in Sofia and many others. These are all monuments of culture that are managed by the National Literary Museum. I believe that there are sufficient tools available to identify and finance projects that will lead to the renewal of these important projects for the state. I can give an example of the opportunities given to us by the new Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020." In it we have a designated priority axis - Regional tourism - which is fully aimed at preserving, promoting and developing culture and natural heritage. In this regard, I ask you to present the measures identified by the Ministry of Culture for the protection of cultural monuments in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Rashidov, please come in for an answer within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! The policy of the Ministry of Culture is aimed at all categories of values in three main directions: research, preservation and socialization of real cultural heritage. As a factor for sustainable development, the Interdepartmental Group of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and other organizations developed a methodology for support and preparation of operational programmes for the 2014-2020 programming period. This document is a solid basis for rational use of EU funds. For the preservation of cultural heritage the Ministry of Culture strives to use the entire expertise and administrative potential of the country and seeks different sources of funding, in this point and the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" 2014-2020. The main principle of the programme is the implementation of an integrated territorial approach under the priorities of sustainable integrated urban development. Eligible beneficiaries are municipalities, religious communities, the Ministry of Culture. The programme contributes to the development of cultural infrastructure in cities through investment in theatres, schools, libraries, museums, operas, galleries, exhibition halls and other cultural life-related sites. Priority Axis 5 "Regional tourism" offers a new approach in the conservation and promotion of cultural heritage. $200 million. lv. conservation and restoration of cultural heritage sites of national and global importance will be supported. The application procedure will be announced in 2016. Another option for funding is the Program BG 08 "Cultural Heritage and Contemporary Arts" in which the museums are supported. Five buildings of cultural significance and five cultural spaces will be restored under the programme and transformed into open-air museums. Seven new museums, along with the relevant facilities, will be renovated. The programme will provide grants for at least 20 projects supporting innovation in culture and art. The second phase of the Sofia arsenal project will also be supported. The museums of contemporary art will provide a larger exposition area and will encourage bilateral co-operation between artists from Bulgaria, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. With regard to your example, I would like to clarify: the building related to Peyo Yavorov's life and creativity is private property. The Museum of Peyo Yavorov is located only on the second floor of the building. Under the Cultural Heritage Act, the owner is obliged to take care of the preservation, preservation and maintenance of real cultural values in good condition. The National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and the Ministry of Culture over the last 25 years have repeatedly provided similar methodological guidance related to the preservation of the building. The house-museum is composed of a main building and several adjoining spider buildings. The exhibition dedicated to Hristo Smirnenski was housed in the main building. In the past, the entire building fund of the museum was owned by the Municipality of Renaissance and was not mainly renovated. In 2012, the property was written off of the act books of municipal property by order of the mayor of Sofia Municipality. Currently the house-museum is owned by the Ministry of Culture and is provided for the management of the National Literary Museum. In 2013, the Ministry of Culture financed a major renovation of the roof of the main building. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u200	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Mr. Binev, please state two questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Today, the word, of course, is appropriate. I mean, does it have an effect on everything that's being done? Are you satisfied with the state of culture at the moment, whether you are satisfied with everything that is happening and the efforts that are being made, the finances that are being allocated, the teams that are working, the commitments that the state is making? Whether problems are really solved or just strategies are drawn and so on and so forth. In cultural heritage, there is something very important about showing the dignity of a nation, the dignity of its people! When they can stick their finger in the truth and when they can also withdraw with dignity, when they cannot deal with the problems they face. Culture is the dignity of a people! Did the real culprits with their inaction contribute to the condition in which they were hiding behind those who pushed as a front to hide behind it? Dignity is more important than any culture that is actually created by people who don't have one. I would like to ask you: are you satisfied with the state in which the current culture is located, and are the models that it is trying to instill worthy of the cultural heritage that our generation should leave behind?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u202	Thank you, Mr. Binev, for the question to Minister Rashidov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u203	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! We are probably not satisfied with the state of Bulgarian culture, both you and I. Not elsewhere, in this room, the budgets are taken. Secondly, I think you are rightly asking whether I am satisfied precisely because I was not satisfied. Fifty years of people who haven't taken care of anything, within two mandates we have ten renovated theaters, ten art schools have been renovated, never as much archeology has been dug up as it used to be. Yes, of course, in case you hadn't noticed, for 50 years Ivan Vazov's house was broken down. It's nice to come by today and see how renovated it was just ten days ago, we repaired it, we found funds. Yes, Smirnenski's house needs to be renovated. There are no two opinions here. The only problem this year is the funds, but next year, and that will be our priority. We have methodical control, we can't influence private property. Yes, we can make recommendations, as it is declared as a monument of culture. We're making a lot of effort. This winter was difficult because of the bad repairs in the previous years, there was an emergency situation in the tomb in Starosel. We immediately searched, found some funds, but we're stabilizing a tomb. The Alexandrov Tomb is a bad performance over the years. We found some money. Yes, for three years the Plovdiv Theatre stood in soot yes, we found funds and may be on the last rights of the tender procedures. Of course we're concerned. In this anxiety, neither you nor I nor any normal person will get away with it. What we have done is, I wonder where we have been to ask the previous rulers: why hasn't any theater been repaired for 50 years? Why hasn't anyone touched our art children's material base for 50 years? Yes, of course, if we are still there, we will be working on the new 2015-2020 programme. It is no coincidence that I told you about the budget at the beginning it is small, we are short, we do not have enough capital construction to cover things with. Yes, of course, we now have the archive of the Bulgarian film shop, which has sunk into mold and moisture, and we will lose the memory of the 100-year-old Bulgarian cinema. It's our priority to solve it. Mr. Binev, one by one we decide them. There are so many possibilities of the state, so are the Ministry of Culture. We have absorbed 136 million European funds for culture from the previous programme in the previous term. Now we have new funds and in 2016 we will continue, Mr. Binev. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to treat the answer made, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, you have not understood my real question. The budget is a budget, it can be some part of the gross domestic product, of the country's capabilities. Whether it is slightly larger or slightly smaller depends largely on the economic situation of the country. Dignity, however, is not up to her! The cultural model that we need to create, to show that we leave behind a cultural heritage, in which, when it is seen that someone has been abused unjustly, there really are people with dignity. Not to hide behind it and say "Uh," we managed somewhere else to send the big problem that is knocking on our door. Hopefully, people will come that we can be proud of and remain in cultural heritage for future generations. That's what we need to do to have people say what they think, but say it out loud. Not to get punched in the shoulders in the corners and attacked in front of people, or to hide behind you people. I think dignity is more important than anything else we can bequeath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u206	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Rashidov, you can't answer this procedure. In this mode of questioning the last word is the MP, but perhaps in the next answer you may also have an internal connection to this more general question. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Angelov Gorov on the prospects for development of the Drama Theatre in Lovech. Mr. Gorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is related to the prospects that stand before the Lovek Theatre. This question has been required in the last few weeks, for one very simple reason it became clear that by the end of the year the Lovek Theatre has practically difficulty financing its activities. The other reason, of course, is that the Lovek Theatre represents the only cultural professional institute of performing arts in the municipality and there is no way the hunter would not care about the Lovek Theatre and not be interested in what will happen to it. Certain discussions were held with the municipality about the opportunities it has at this stage to finance what is practically the lack of funding for the hunting theatre. What's the fact? The Ministry approved 158,000. BGN, which is the practically estimated subsidy by the Ministry; 82 thousand. lv. by the municipality as a subsidy and the rest of the money is a priority of what will be derived from the tickets and other activities which the hunting theatre develops. With a decision from yesterday the municipality intervened in this case and will save the situation in Lovek Theatre thanks to the understanding of the mayor of the municipality and the councillors. Since yesterday, 50,000. lv. Already in fact, voted by the Municipal Council in Lovech. However, it is noticed here that the subsidy granted by the State to the Lovek Theatre and the municipality are practically evened out. The commitment of the State and the municipality becomes practically equal in the Lovech Theatre. That, to me, is, to put it mildly, disturbing. From this point of view, my question is: what does the ministry think about the functioning of the theatres of this type and in particular about the Lovech Theatre?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u208	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Minister Rashidov, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u209	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gorov, in relation to your question, I inform you of the following. So far, there have been no planned changes in the structure and network of state stage institutes. The Ministry of Culture has prepared and proposed a draft decree on the validation of uniform costs and standards for funding of state cultural institutes. The proposal is a very functional form of subsidy under a base component for the number of tickets sold to be replaced by a municipal by a base component for the actual revenue realised from the sale of the tickets. This new financial approach does not require the transformation or closure of state performing arts. Drama Theatre "Lovech" will continue to function normally and in the new working conditions. Preliminary analyses show opportunities to improve the current state of the theatre. Dropping existing restrictions such as ticket prices and producing children's performances will activate management with regard to viewers in the city and the area. Mr. Gorov, here I have to tell you: I understand your concern for theatres and for municipal theatres, but let's not forget one thing about theatre, because people need to watch theater. The need for theater is this, not the need to show a district that there is a theater. What has troubled us, first, will tell you frankly: with the so-called Subsidy on a purchased ticket, it was corrupted in action during the time when Mr. Oresharski was in power. There's a control down there. Before that, everyone was happy with the new methodology. Yes, of course, Mr. Gorov, it is by no means pleasant to report against 5 leva. ticket, get 15 leva. a subsidy for 300 tickets sold in the hall to have 60 people. You know, that's called draining state steam, right? That's what we had to change the methodology, because on real means then we'll subsidize the theaters. What we do, otherwise we should unite some theaters, because let's learn and say the word: a lot of theaters don't work well. What do you mean, no? They don't have an audience, that's what they're saying. But in order not to proceed to unification to preserve the spiritual centers, of course, we must first ask the municipalities to be more active, not to finance 3%, as it has been so far, and all the theaters lying entirely on the back of the state. When I say "sliding," they lie on the budget of this country. It is good for municipalities to take their place in the financing of theatres. The conversation is more complicated and longer, as it is not scary, the new methodology ensures that the Lovek Theatre works, that people calm down, be motivated, but we have a meeting with the municipalities and perhaps after the vacation we will have serious meetings so that we can truly protect the theatres and give them a longer life to work peacefully and motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Gorov? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u211	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I agree that municipalities should be an active country, even more so when it comes to district centres, but I do not know which municipalities finance 3%. In this case, Lovech Municipality practically gives 50% of the subsidy with this money that they are. With the money that the municipality is making right now, it's about 50% of the money that's being given to the theater at all. So we can't specifically talk about the Lovech Municipality that it's not committed to the future of the theatre. For me, however, this decision is in pieces. Now the municipality has the opportunity, it will allocate money and the matter will be resolved by the end of the year. What if you didn't have a chance? The municipalities are in the same difficult situation as the Ministry of Culture and all other departments in Bulgaria. And if the Lovech Municipality didn't have the understanding and the opportunity to do so, did it mean that the theater had to be closed by the end of the year? For me, this is a fire extinguishment right now, not a solution to the future of the theater. The decision on the future of the theatre must be made on the basis of the need to establish differentiated rates, in my opinion, for the different areas. We cannot compare the theatre in Plovdiv in this case to Plovdiv, the theatres in Sofia, in Varna, in Burgas, where we have a much larger group of crowds, which is practically a potential customer for watching these performances, and what is produced in the Lovech Theatre and which is the opportunity to be visited in the Lovech Theatre. From this point of view, I think there should be a differentiated approach on the part of the state and the state should have a better attitude towards these theaters, because if we only get things to the commercial approach to prevail in culture, if there is an audience, they will be made From this point of view, I think the state should be more active in this direction. In my opinion, only a differentiated approach is a solution to this problem for this type of theatre.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u212	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u213	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gorov! I'm only gonna take a few words from you. The new methodology requires that we clearly and accurately understand that the spiritual product is a product. He's a spiritual product. He must have his own real market. The only market for culture is its audience. And the point of having such a culture is only the need of the audience to do so. We need to figure this out once and for all. I will give you just one example: 60 million Italy, when I talked, I asked how many state theaters there are. The answer was simple and clear. I will also give you examples with each European country. We are Bulgaria, 6 million, we have 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u214	You shut them down.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u215	You just answered one question if you can't work. The problem here is when there's no audience, what do we do with these theaters? Why do we need a theater if we don't have an audience? We want an audience. So, the new methodology, so we don't close theaters, because there are talented people there, there are fates of people there, it's the easiest way to close them down, we won't do that. That's why we're changing the methodology. On income, real money to get money. The state should assist them. differentiation is dependent on the size of cities. Because a moment ago you said you couldn't compare Sofia. Yeah, Broadway doesn't compare to Baltimore. That's right. I'm sorry. Baltimore's a small town, there's theater, wonderful work, hard work, and Broadway has a lot of big theaters. We must also accept this, if we are on the market principle of a modern, European, modern state. Yes, the differentiation is Lovech again, his audience and his viewers. There's so many of them. There's no way we can take an audience with buses.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u216	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. And for the answers to the questions on the move asked to you. That concludes your participation in today's parliamentary control. Before I give the floor to Minister Nikolay Nenchev, I would like to make a message that Minister Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, has informed the administration of an urgent commitment, which is why the three questions and one question to him are dropped. Colleagues have been informed accordingly and I hope they will understand. We move on to questions for Mr. Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defense. The first question is from the MP Slavi Binev on the deployment of additional US military forces on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Binev. You are asking questions to almost all ministers today. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u217	There's gotta be somebody out there asking them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! Mr Ashton Carter, Secretary of Defense of the United States, informed about the deployment of US troops on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. I think it is necessary to give more clarity to the issues concerning the development of relations on the international political stage, given the current complex geopolitical situation and Bulgaria's proximity to a number of conflict points. In his statements, Mr. Carter announced that there was an agreement by the Bulgarian state to deploy US troops on our territory. But your office has come up with information that such an agreement has not been given. Have there been negotiations between representatives of the Department of Defense and our American partners? Have any agreements been reached between the two parties and what are they? What is the result of the gap in the official positions with regard to this issue. Why should we find out about similar intentions of the government of Bulgaria from American sources and not from the government itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u218	Thanks for the question. Minister Nenchev, you have the opportunity to answer within three minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, you are right However, I take advantage of the case and the opportunity of this tribune to recall that 11 years ago Bulgaria made its civilized choice to join NATO. This choice was realized, voluntary and continues to enjoy public support. So we chose the security that is guaranteed by a lasting partnership and collective defence. The development of the international situation in recent years has put us close to risk areas. In Ukraine, there was a bloody conflict. In the Middle East, in North Africa, we are witnessing terrible bloodshed. Refugee waves increase the threat of terrorism. Three neighbouring countries are on the verge of political destabilisation. These challenges of changes in the security environment are now needed more than ever to improve the combat capacity of the Bulgarian army, and to stick to the stability and security area. I would like to say that over 70% of the technology we have is outdated and incompatible with the technique of our partners. The joint multinational exercises enable the Bulgarian servicemen to acquire new skills, exchange experience and work with modern military equipment. The programme launched by US Secretary of Defence Ashton Carter to assist European allies envisions the rotating deployment of US military equipment in NATO's eastern flank countries. The aim is to demonstrate US commitment to the independence and territorial integrity of these countries. The whole world needs to know that Bulgaria is not located in some grey zone of geopolitical struggles, but an integral part of the family of the most developed countries in the world. The amount of equipment is fully incorporated within the framework of the 2006 Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States on Defence Cooperation. And now to your question specifically, why there is a gap. There is no difference, Mr. Binev. In this regard, I would like to inform you that negotiations between the Ministry of Defence and the United States on the permanent basis of US servicemen and equipment on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria have not been conducted. The question was whether American equipment will be located in Bulgaria permanently. That's a question I don't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Replica, dear Mr. Binev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u221	I regret not having in front of me the official statement of our American partners, which will practically give me the opportunity to disprove what you said. Somewhere we get through the information and you have to see exactly where it is. In the publication of the information itself something has gone wrong because the interpretation of the answers is just different. The public needs to calm down because it is already very excited by all kinds of wars at all points, which seem to be getting closer and closer to our territory. From this point of view, the information that comes out of the Ministry and which is published by our partners must be extremely precise, because this can lead to mistrust of whether it is true or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u222	Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u223	Mr. Binev, once again to clarify the misunderstanding comes from the question. A question was asked to me whether American equipment and servicemen will be permanently deployed in Bulgaria. To that question, I answered that no such inquiry has been made to us. Thank you. I think we're done with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you by the National Representative Ivan Valkov is postponed. He asked for a continuance. It will most likely be directed towards you at next parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question from the MP Vasil Antonov about the restoration of the Higher Air School in the town of Dolna Mitropolia. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor to formulate the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u225	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! Due to organizational structural reforms in the Bulgarian Army by Decision of the Thirty-nineth National Assembly of 14 June 2002 the three higher military schools in Veliko Tarnovo for ground troops, in Shumen During this period the Faculty of Aviation and the Air Training Group Georgi Benkovski managed to maintain and develop the necessary educational and material base, teaching and instructor staff and continued to prepare highly qualified aviation personnel. The fact is that the current model of staff preparation does not satisfy the growing needs and requirements of the modern environment. A change is needed in the model of training specialists for the needs of the Air Force and building a new training model, meeting the real needs to achieve a new higher efficiency of training for the students. The conditions necessary for the existence of a higher education institution, including one military one, are three. First, there needs to be a base, a second one, and a third one, to have enough habilitated persons. To these three indicators, the Air Force School in Lower Metropolis responds. Dear Minister, here comes my question, all the more so that the reconstruction of the Air Force School in Lower Metropolitan could be a real fact, because its funding as a faculty does not require a greater separation of funds and in the recovery of the Air Military School. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is: will the necessary action be taken by you and what do you intend to do to restore the Air Force School in Lower Metropolis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u226	Thank you for the question, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, the functioning system for the acquisition of military education, qualification and professional military training in the current staff of the armed forces fully satisfies the needs for the preparation of personnel for their needs. As a result of the organisation established and carrying out the review of the structures of the armed forces working group No 15 "Military education and research" in its report on the review of the military education, he added an opinion that at the moment the capabilities of the National Military University Vasil Levski do not only meet, but even significantly exceed the current needs of personnel for the Air Force. Students training for the needs of the Air Force are about 30 to 35 people per year. Alumni for the needs of the air force shall not immediately be appointed to posts and shall be appointed to a special state of the Minister of Defence. Over the years, this appears to be the following: in 2009. "Seven; 2010 ==References====External links==*Four; 2011 "One'; 2012 ==References=====External links==* "Further reading"* "Further reading"* "Further reading"* "Further reading"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings, The trend is the reduction of applicants for students for the needs of the Air Force, as well as the number of admissions to airworthiness for health reasons. For the 2014 academic year, only ten of the 70 candidates were eligible and admitted to apply at the National Military University of Vasil Levski. For the 2015 academic year, only fifteen of the participants 62 candidate students were eligible and admitted to apply at the National Military University of Vasil Levski. It is therefore increasingly difficult to complete the number of places required in the specialties at the Faculty of Aviation. According to T. 49 of the defence minister's guidelines on defence policy 2015 "2018," the military-brothering system will be oriented both towards the construction of modern professional skills and leadership qualities and abilities. The structure of the military education system will not change as within the existing will seek mechanisms for assessing the educational capabilities and projects for their development, as well as opportunities for acquiring complex aviation education in the field of Air Force and Civil Aviation. On the basis of the above, I inform you that no action is planned for the next few years to be taken towards the restoration of the Higher Military School in Lower Metropolis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Antonov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u229	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am definitely not satisfied with the answer, and I think you are very much deluded in terms of the question of rebuilding the military school. First, when the reform was carried out and when the university was built, this reform was planned to enter the Naval School in Varna. However, it appears that a lobby was found and the Naval School was separated from this reform. Today the benchmark of the Bulgarian Armed Forces is precisely that school which did not enter the reform. Here is the head of the school General. He can confirm that until then the benchmark of education and the pride of the armed forces was precisely the Air Force School in Lower Metropolitan. I would like you to take another look and try together with a joint effort to change this situation because I want to tell you that today the National Program "Bulgaria 2020" - art. 94 who will verbally read you to make sure that you violate this program. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 94 says: "It is necessary to realise the opportunities for acquiring competence in education and in the Air Force and civil aviation. " This cannot happen today, with this model, it is necessary to do so with a five-year training programme, namely both one type and the other type respectively. I have many other serious arguments. Since 2014, with the order of the then Minister Mr. Shalamanov, there has been a working group to give clarity on these issues. The report, which is prepared, is 46 pages, you should be familiar with it and it provides for exactly this option to launch an accreditation procedure and bring this issue into the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency and move on to the other stage. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I would like to say that there is a lot of information on this issue. The question we brought him into the 40th National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u230	Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u231	I'm finishing with another sentence. We amended the Armed Forces Act in 2009. Unfortunately, even in the Forty-first National Assembly, some of the inexperiences were abolished precisely these adjustments. Once again, I insist and am ready to come to you for a conversation with a large group that has been working on these issues for a long time to do another detailed analysis. I'm sure we can, uh... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Here it is a matter of pride, the authority of the Bulgarian armed forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u232	You're a minute and a half over time, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u233	Now we are talking about repairing planes purchased 30 years ago, and today we need to pay more attention to training, because tomorrow we will purchase planes, and then we will be looking for pilots from neighbouring countries or from more distant countries. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u234	Thank you. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u235	Dear Mr. Antonov, of course, I invite you to a meeting where I will also invite the senior management to discuss this issue very seriously once again. I would like to tell you that this is not a matter of emotion or lack of expertise. I have paid extreme attention to this subject and have held a number of talks with experts and with the senior command staff, including the commander of the Air Force, including the Defence Council. That was the opinion of our experts and specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u236	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. We move on to the last question to you from the National Representative Volen Siderov about an insulting demonstration of strength by American military planes over the meeting in Rozhen. I want to inform you that you have two minutes to ask your question. Mr. Siderov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u237	On 17, 18 and 19 July this year was held the traditional Rozhen Council, which gathers dozens, not to say hundreds of thousands of people. It's our tradition. Historically, I would remind you that it was launched 117 years ago on St. George's Day. Panteleimon, when the local priest decides to gather all parishioners in the vicinity to pay tribute to God and the saints, patrons of the Rozhen chapels. More than 200 folklore groups from all over the country, 100 individual folk musicians and dancers from seven districts, 300 folk costumes were presented. This is a huge gathering where people go with pleasure, with great desire. What happened this time at the Rozhen Council? On the first day of the meeting, the great manifestation of the Bulgarian national dignity and feeling was marred by three US military transport planes, which flew at a low altitude over the Rozhen meadows. This happened on the first night of the Council and all participants and guests were outraged by this insolent behaviour of American pilots. They flew both during the war with the apparent intention of scaring people, as they did in Libya, in Iraq, in Syria, in all countries where the States had carried out military intervention. They were tens after the Second World War. This raid wasn't an accident. I have data about other similar insolent, arrogant and showing such flyovers over settlements in Bulgaria. And I'm going to put this information on the public...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u238	Please, your question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u239	My question is: how did your ministry allow American aircraft to threaten the thousands of participants in Rozhen's council, and what measures will you take to prevent this insolent provocation from repeating itself?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u240	Thanks for asking, Mr. Siderov. Mr. Nenchev, you have the opportunity to respond in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Siderov! From July 10th to July 26th, 2015 a joint Bulgarian-American training was held. It is attended by personnel from the Ministry of Defence and directly subordinate structures of the Minister of Defence, the forces for special operations of the Land Forces, the Naval and Air Force and the Ministry of Interior, and a transport plane with 27 and helicopters MI 17..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In our joint preparation are involved anti-missile divisions from the Air Force Command, and a team from the Military Medical Academy and the Military Police Service. On U.S. side, the United States forces in Europe and transport planes C 130 of the United States Armed Forces are participating in the 2015 Thracian Summer. As observers, soldiers from the Kingdom of Great Britain are also involved in the preparations. During this joint preparation, the crews of the transport aircraft operate flights at low altitudes, flights in mountains, humanitarian aid from the air, medical evacuations and others. The command of the Bulgarian Air Force is responsible for the planning and use of our airspace in joint exercises. As Minister of Defense, I trust the expertise of the commanders of the armed forces. Routes shall be selected in such a way that they do not coincide with the international routes of civil aviation and avoid populated areas. The main part of the flights are carried out jointly, not only are American planes, such as the aircraft.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They're flying together in formations. Apparently, the Air Force Command did not take into account the meeting in Rozhen at your designated day and hour. We can certainly say that in no way have aircraft changed or sharply lowered the flight altitude in the quoted area and time, but followed the planned route and could not otherwise happen. I have informed the institutions in the country in due course of the event in accordance with the established order. The information is updated periodically on the site of the Ministry of Defence, published on both the electronic sites and on the media pages. I take this opportunity to offer my personal apology to all those involved in the council if they were really concerned about this flight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u242	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Siderov, line in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u243	Mr. Minister, not only am I not satisfied, but I resent your response, because it turns out that you actually agreed to this arrogant flight. To disprove you, I brought photos and video footage. The planes that flew are marked USA. There is no Bulgarian inscription here. These planes have flown dangerously close over the cars, above the parking lot and above the citizens. Here, they're watching them. And I can also play you a recording where you can see the reaction of Bulgarian citizens, because not only were they not happy, they were outraged by what happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u244	I think the system's stuck.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u245	Yeah... I am going to make a special broadcast of this recording on TV.Alfa, will be able to be seen to see what is the reaction of the Bulgarians there. She's negative, to say the least, she's cursing at you because they're scared. On social networks, there was literally an explosion of outrage because these planes were flying so low. I don't understand how you take this to be normal.! If that's normal, then why are you apologizing? So you find there was something wrong with the whole story, you find there was something wrong! I hope at the next meeting, wherever he is, not to exercise your American partners with anti-aircraft artillery launchers, because they can pull out the cannons, and the tanks and take to pop there who is at the Council to show that they are doing a drill. I hope that won't happen, Minister, at the next meeting, because summer is a time when a rally is being made. Some of them include your leader, one of your leaders Mr. Tsvetanov, usually with a national costume. That's my fear and that's my fear, and that's my fear, and that's the sacrifice of friendly fire. Such things happen, for Americans they are everyday. [[Applause by "Attacka"]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u246	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u247	Mr. Siderov, I am one of the people who is capable and responsible, who can in any particular case, when necessary, offer excuses, which I will make once again. You, among other things, asked me what measures you would take. I have already taken such measures, I have sent a letter to Major General Radev for the future not to have such incidents happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was your last answer for today. Thank you for your participation and a successful day on. We are now going to ask the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov of the National Representative Yavor Haytov about the policy of development and reform of military justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. You've already warmed up, you've seen the Minister, you can now place your question within...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u249	Not me, Mr. Chairman! He warmed up because he, as you well know, was subordinate to us the legislative authority, so that he came to listen to me, to ask himself the necessary notes, to focus and to hope, to respond and competent. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the opportunity. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question to the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria is on the policy of development and reform of military justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. So, dear Minister! The transcript of the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 17 June 2015 recorded the following words of yours:................................. They bully people, including transport tickets, that they weren't issued properly. Roman can be written in the way we throw public resources to maintain an absolutely unnecessary system. In this regard, my question, my dear Minister, to you is: do you believe that the system of military justice is a system of unnecessary excess? What are your views on military justice, which is constitutionally attached? What actions have you taken to change the unnecessary system which is your words? Thank you. I await your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u250	Thank you, Mr. Haytov, for asking. Mr. Minister, please respond within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you very much for this question. He will give me the opportunity, except to answer you on a really important subject, and to commend the Supreme Judicial Council on two things. First of all, allow me to point out that according to art. 30, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary in the powers of the Supreme Judicial Council is to take decisions to close courts according to the degree of workload. In other words, the issue of policy with regard to this or other subsystems of the judiciary should be addressed to them rather. The Supreme Judicial Council also has a permanent Commission on Analysis and Accountability of the workload of the judicial authorities, which develops a specific methodology for reporting workload and makes proposals for specific measures with a view to balancing the workload of individual authorities in the judiciary system. On 6 February 2014, here is the first thing that colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council should be praised for, the Supreme Judicial Council decided to close the military courts and the military prosecutors in Varna and in Pleven. Under this decision, the next phase of the restructuring had to take place in 2015. Unfortunately, in 2015, they postponed the decision on further restructuring, which was the immediate background for my brand. We must bear in mind the burden of the military justice system on the following data, which the Supreme Judicial Council itself reports. The quoted Commission on Load Analysis for 2014 found too low the workload of these authorities. Even after the structural reform, which I mentioned, with the closure of the two structures in Varna and in Pleven, it remained too low. For example, according to the analysis carried out by the Supreme Judicial Council, the average monthly workload of the state of the military courts for 2014 was 2,5 pieces in 4,12 cases for 2013 and 4,86 units for 2012. Compared to the average workload of the other courts for 2014 it was 29,5 pieces compared to 2,8 pieces and 25,8 cases. These data clearly contrast with the workload of the common courts, which in most cases is much higher, in fact by several dozens of times can reach this difference compared to the military courts. The structural and organizational system of military justice is the construction in the context of a significantly higher number of Bulgarian army members, as well as a militaryized system of the Ministry of Interior authorities, which is no longer a fact. Following the changes in the number of servicemen and the demilitaryisation of the Ministry of Interior system, the workload of military courts and prosecutors has been reduced. Despite these findings, the Supreme Judicial Council postponed the closure of other military courts and, at its meeting on 3 March 2015, ordered further analysis. I would like to quote a few more findings from the High Judicial Council reports. They found that a lasting trend was deepening to reduce the number of cases formed and dealt with in military courts, which is a direct consequence of the special legal and limited jurisdiction of military courts. On the other hand, the reform of the Bulgarian Army has led to a significant reduction of the numerical composition. Another finding is that despite the closure of the Military Court in Pleven and the Military Court in Varna and their respective prosecutors, this fact did not significantly affect the workload of the other three military courts and they remained under-burdened. The recommendation that the Commission of the Supreme Judicial Council itself has made is that it should continue the process of the consolidation of military courts and prosecutions by proceeding to a subsequent stage of restructuring of a military-criminal court and a military-approaching court and their respective military prosecutors, that is to say, to remain only one for both levels and the respective national prosecutors. Because otherwise we can't justify the current workload. The second thing I would like to commend from this high tribune, the Supreme Judicial Council, is that two weeks ago, again on a report by the Commission on workload, they developed a minimum norm, the regulation on the size of the regional courts in the country, which is next a very important step for the so-called "Reform of the Judicial Card', i.e. a more optimal distribution of the human resources of the system on the territory of the country. This is an extremely important element of judicial reform, which is under the leadership of the Supreme Judicial Council and they are taking important steps in this regard and must be praised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Haytov, you have two questions within two minutes. The stand is yours!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Within the limits of the opportunities given to me, I will first share my satisfaction with the fact that you praised the current Supreme Judicial Council two or three times, and that is a good thing, which shows that the executive and the judiciary can and should cooperate. But at the next moment, we should not look at the changes and reform of the judiciary abstractly, look at the problems separated from each other, whether in administrative justice, military justice, criminal justice and so on. Therefore, my two additional questions are: what do you foresee with regard to the new Law or amendments to the Law on the Judicial Authority, a structural-determining and extremely important one? Are there any working groups established in the office that you run regarding the development of the so-called codes that really reform the system procedurally? These are the Civil Procedure Code, the Administrative Procedure Code and the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u254	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u255	Thanks for the questions, Mr. Haytov. Without a doubt, the reform of the judicial map is an extremely important element in having much more effective justice, within which financial and human resources are managed sufficiently well. We are currently having a dialogue with our colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council and we are working on the opportunities together to structure a project under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" which will cover the overall policy of regionalisation of the judiciary and the judicial authorities and linking the region to e-Justice with the reform of the judiciary budget, which allows for a much more effective accounting of costs and work done. I hope that it will further develop what you have praised for co-operation between the two authorities, which is a fact at the moment. Both sides are making their efforts in this regard. As regards the amendment to the Law on the Judiciary, since the policy specifically on maintaining or closing and opening of specific institutions of the judiciary in specific places should be developed by the Supreme Judicial Council, what we foresee at this stage in the Law on the Judicial Government is the introduction of the figure of the so-called territorial department of the Court. As it is clear, we have come to this idea together with colleagues from the Supreme Judicial Council, in changing the judicial map one of the most important considerations, along with the optimization of the use of human and financial resources is access to justice, that is, our aim is to optimize the system that citizens who use it, if possible, will not notice its restructuring. From this point of view, we are working on an option where, in places where the workload of the courts does not justify the existence of a separate independent court or district court, the judicial authority may continue to serve the citizens by means of such territorial units reduced from the point of view of the administration. In other words, they should be smaller structures that spend less but continue to provide the judicial service in the same place. This should happen in parallel with the introduction of e-Justice, on which we are also working very actively with the Supreme Judicial Council, because it is obvious that when digitalising communication with countries and more and more services, this can also release a large resource for the system. On the second issue, at the moment there are three working groups in the Ministry of Economy, which follows the implementation of the PPC, there is a working group that we are in the process of establishing with the Prosecutor General's Office and the VCC for possible reforms of the PPC. We have a working group working on the Code of Administrative Violations and Punishments. It was made in a previous period. The same working group is currently reviewing its project and we expect, perhaps, in early September, to re-submit it for public discussion and to offer it to your attention in Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Haytov, please come in for an attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u257	Thank you. The dialogue we have, I hope, will continue. Listening to you, I can think of a popular Bulgarian expatriate singer who sang a famous, popular song: You are late, terribly late! Minister, for more than nine months, there is practically not a single step in the reform of the judiciary that we can say has happened. And in your exhibition, you have mentioned several times: we predict this, we will optimize, we will work on the topic of Electronic Justice (E-Justice), things that we expect to happen in the foreseeable future, but without clear and specific deadlines. That's on my extra questions. On the basic question that I asked you, perhaps it was fair to say one word and it is: Bulgarian military prosecutors, military investigators and military judges are authoritative, competent and educated people. They are alumni of the Law Faculty and the Faculty who train law personnel with no less weight than all of us, the rest of us. Their work must be appreciated and I do not agree that people are harassing people for tickets in urban transport and so on. I conclude my attitude with the hope that everything you have predicted in the future will happen. I want to assure you that you personally have my support. As we have worked actively in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the parliamentary group that I represent, we will support everything that really has to do with a positive and necessary change in the overall picture of the judiciary in our country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u258	And thank you, Mr. Haytov. This concludes the questions to Minister Hristo Ivanov. Good luck with that! We continue with questions to the Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Taneva. Since it is not in the Chamber, but we see that here is the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev and the MPs who will ask questions are here, it is good to give the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev the opportunity to answer first a question from the National Representative Ivan Kostadinov Stankov about the general vision of the Ministry of Education and Science for the elaboration of a new Law on Higher Education. Mr. Minister, you're ready to answer, aren't you? Thank you. Mr. Stankov, please formulate your question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education by 2020. It is the foundation on which the Law on Higher Education in our country should be established. Now the current regulatory act regulating this matter has been amended and supplemented repeatedly, or as we rectors often talk, is a patch to patch and a very difficult person can navigate in the current law. This requires quick measures to draw up a new law. There are a number of restrictive texts in the existing Higher Education Act that deprive public schools and universities to solve some of their problems. One of the main problems is the chronic shortage of financial resources, while in large part it is solved. The new regulation should give universities greater freedom to obtain additional funds. The state doesn't have enough, and it's imposed restrictions! The strategy is intended to extend the role of external financing by attracting private investment. This is positive, but the right of higher schools and universities to develop business should also be added. Such practice has been imposed in many countries around the world. My question to you is: when is the development and presentation of a new Law on Higher Education envisaged in Parliament? Does it provide for the right of higher schools and universities to pursue business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u260	Thanks for asking. Minister Tanev, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u261	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Decision No 393 of 29 May 2015 of the Council of Ministers submitted a document with the most urgent amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science. We are talking about a proposal for the PID - the Law for amendment and supplement of the existing law, as the main reason for this line, not a new law, is the operational programme that requires changes in order to be in sync and to be able for competitions when the first instalments come, to have a place to use. This explains why the Law for amendment and supplement of the existing, as you well said, another patch, but let's hope for the good, because this time it is about money and not a new law. If you ask me, both you and all my colleagues, I hope, in the field of higher education, especially from state universities, we would urgently want a new law. What we have done, of course, is in line with the strategy adopted here. Just in connection with this Strategy, I believe that a new law must be made, including what you are asking me: whether higher education institutions, mostly state institutions, should be allowed to develop a certain type by the MPs by law, certain frameworks of such activity. It's only natural that there should be such frames. This is primarily done with incentives for the development of research in state universities, as well as the development of innovations but oriented towards the market economy, clusters. In this context, it is the regulation of business in higher schools and the abolition of regulatory and administrative obstacles to such activities, which will be laid down in a new law, as these activities are laid down in the Higher Education Development Strategy. There must be no discrepancy between the Strategy and what will be the legislative basis for our activities in higher education institutions. That's against any logic. At present, legislation still does not allow the development of business in higher schools. This makes it difficult to create the so-called spin-off companies, i.e. companies that make technological transfer to working economic entities in the material and intangible sphere. As they are the intersection of innovation and industrial policy, we take into account their importance for developing links between the scientific sector and business, as well as for the return on investment in public research. I mean, in addition to the Strategy, but also the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science's leadership are directed exclusively at the basic backbone of reform to exist. This spine is the withdrawal of the centralized management of science.. understand the Ministry, from its basic positions for 120 years and more existence and acceptance of life, understood not only as business but also local authorities, local initiative, local public, as partners of this Ministry. This life outside as a partner of the ministry proves how many people, in what specialties and in what study plans we need, and not the Ministry through state statistics, to make conditional calculations on this issue. This is the big reform. This reform we are doing in this National Assembly. Part of it is those integrated colleges that we want to do, they are between secondary and higher education, but here the question is about higher education institutions and I will therefore say that above them in this field close to business and to life we need to develop clusters, except, of course, the centres of excellence. Let's have both. If we're going to do these clusters, I apologize for the foreigner, but she's popular right now, which means it's production, technology and science together, then we're going to need legislation to create an opportunity for private initiatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Stankov, you have the opportunity to ask up to two specific questions of the honourable Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the answers you gave to my question. Indeed, the need for a new law is very great, but you have explained well enough why we will make amendments and additions. Of course, we will also accept this as long as it solves the problems of higher education, which are indeed many at the moment. In terms of business, I would like to tell you that this problem we have discussed for my two terms as Rector. In the Council of Rectors we are constantly talking about our students having to enter the farms, that our students should enter the workshops together with their teachers, to make machines, inventions, to receive money against it. I've seen that. I've been to America, the state of Iowa, I've been to Japan, Tokyo, and in many places around the world, this thing is done. And indeed students are very very satisfied because under real conditions they learn and acquire practical skills. Again, in connection with the Higher Education Act, I would like to ask you two more questions, and I have the right to do so. The first: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on the award of a state contract in higher schools and universities? And how long will this anomaly continue to be given twice as many as graduate students? This is one of the questions, because it really worries us very much, most of the universities will not be able to fill their seats. And the second question: do you think it is enough for the subsidy to be purely for quality and to be determined mainly by the rating and realization of students? Rating and realization largely depend on the state of the sector. The Agrarian Science Sector is not one of the best, so maybe it's good to get involved in this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u264	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Professor Tanev, you have the opportunity to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u265	Professor Stankov, we speak the same language with you. Government procurement, as you named them, is actually a reference to the numbers that we validate every year. Such numbers shall be validated for both private and state higher education institutions. When it comes to a private VUM, the Ministry relies on the assessments that this VUM received from the National Accreditation Agency. As many as they ask, we are obliged by law to give them as much or things must go to court, because we have no reason from the Ministry to prohibit these numbers, as long as the National Accreditation Agency has said: "Yes, this private VUM has the capacity to receive by this quality, there is the necessary base. Well, then we're in a subordinate position, as far as the ministry is concerned. However, when we talk about the State VUM, we have several more options. So we're pretty strict, and if you've noticed there's almost no movement this year, there's only one private college that's acquired a new status. Now is the place to say. 51 were, 51 remain higher education institutions. The four of us in Plovdiv, we talked about, do not change their status, do not enter anywhere else and do not become 51 to 55. They're just changing their status. They were and continue to be higher schools. One of them is private and has really increased, but after all the documents. The other higher education institutions shall receive the numbers they declare. Another question is how much money you get for them. That, as you know, is another matter. In January of each year the Ministry sends committees that see how real they are studying at the moment and the respective state VUM receives the subsidy of the real ones. So if any State VUM has 1,000 seats real and they get 1200, we'll give them to them, but we won't pay them for 1200 if we find 900 students there in January. For 900 will be paid. So this question is not so decisive, it is not so important. The most important thing is the quality subsidy. We have a lot to talk about here. Quality, if we're just going to measure it with the great ratings, we're nowhere. Because in every university there are strong and not strong specialties. If the entire university has a good rating and we give money on the operational program to his Rector, this Rector will divert money for salaries and other to the non-winning, in fact to those who are weaker departments. So how are we going to finance with old thinking and only one rating criterion? We have something to talk about. We have many, we have offers. I want a dialogue on this. A broad dialogue that sets the beginning of a new law in the autumn with you. As long as we pass the School Education Act once.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u266	Thank you, Professor. Tanev. Professor Stankov, you have the opportunity to take a stand on the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Minister, I am pleased with the answers you give. We seem to be living together with the problems of higher education, and we are looking for solutions. I won't dwell on the other things we've already talked about. Perhaps I should add that when we are talking about quality and when we are talking about financing and subsidising by quality, we should focus on learning. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria, many universities, including Thracian University, where I work, still have outdated teaching methods. We are continuing on the traditional form lecture on how many students have come. And what is the effect of this lecture? I will mention again that abroad I have seen how only on problematic issues lectures are given and this lecture is announced. I was in Montpellier, Dijon. There's a message in downtown. And not only students, but all those interested in this problem participate in the lectures. We must change through legal decisions the forms of training. These passive forms that we have been applying so far have been unsuccessful. We need to introduce active forms of training where students will be, how will they be, have enough experience in the world, we will be able to really change the way the students are learning and get better qualifications. I believe that you as a reformer will do everything necessary and I declare that I am ready to cooperate and work together to solve the problems of Bulgarian higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u268	And thank you, Mr. Stankov. We move on to a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadzhieva about the created tension and uncertainty in the management of the Industrial Academy. Svishtov and the organization of the school 2015 in the school. Mrs. Boyadjieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In short, I would like to recall the facts that have given me reason to ask this question to Minister Tanev. On May 28, 2015 was held General Assembly of the Economic Academy "Dimitar Apostolov Tsvetov" - the town of Svishtov, where Professor was elected after a secret vote for Rector of the Academy. Dr. Theodora Dimitrova. By your order, Mr. Minister, No RD-09727 of 3 June 2015 for a temporary acting Rector of the Industrial Academy "Dimitar Tsenov" for a period of time until the election of a new Rector, but for not more than six months, was appointed Professor. Ivan Varbanov. A preliminary execution of this order was granted. In connection with the election of the Rector of the Academy several court cases have been initiated in the Administrative Court of Veliko Tarnovo and the Supreme Administrative Court. In view of these facts, as well as in relation to the organisation of the candidate campaign and the new school year, I ask for your reply to the following: what actions have you taken to successfully complete the candidate campaign at the Economic Academy? Secondly, how will you ensure the successful start of the new 2015 school year 2016 at the university? How will you guarantee the legality of the actions and the issued acts of the temporary acting Rector, given the presence of two elected Rectors of the Higher School, the Rector elected by the General Assembly of the Academy and the temporary acting Rector appointed by your order? And my final question: how will you ensure that the founding principles of higher education in Bulgaria, namely the principles of academic self-government and academic autonomy, are not violated at the Industrial Academy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u270	Your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u271	Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, I will give you the written material I have prepared and I will speak seriously. My rhetorical question is: could we continue with the Academy? A. Prof. Tsenov, where for many years problems have been accumulated, for which the whole public knew and resented, the entire academic community also? So far, is there a single protest by representatives of political parties, the public or the academies? I can give you thousands of examples of the opposite that this was a risky step, not well described in the Law, but closer to the spirit of the Law than the formal implementation of the other. Much closer! I took the risk with the whole consciousness of this thing. We don't want to dictate things, we can't, and we don't need an autonomous higher education institution, but autonomy is not a start for self-government! I repeat, autonomy is not a soil for feudalism in any academy, especially in such an important and dignified academy, as is the one in Svishtov, in a city which has given so much to Bulgaria from Aleko Konstantinov to I don't know who! She deserves to take her place. It was an Academy where there was a painting hanging on which was the Last Supper with the Rector! Is that what we're supposed to protect? I can't do it! There was a problem with the way you quoted the meeting on 28 May was held. Others, not the Ministry, have brought to court the problems they have to solve! We wrote a letter to the Rector at the time: "Don't make this meeting a problem. The Court of Justice did not make a statement. But it was this rector who did not see that there was a court and did not admit he was above the court, and held this meeting. That way no one's standing above the court. What the Minister of Education and Science means is Prof. Todor Tanev, here, standing before you and in charge, did it to bring him into court. We have withdrawn from this point of view and will not insist on anything, nor can we! What we demand is quality! That's why I'm gonna give you the right documents right here. We asked him on 24 June 2015 to finally inform us what measures have been taken. On 27 June was held the last examination session, the results of the first ranking were published on 13 July. I mean, things are absolutely in order! After which, I can say, we have sent for 50 working days a deadline of 20 July, an audit check of the Ministry's internal audit unit. We don't go higher than that. We don't want to chase witches. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u272	Finish, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u273	And we have also sent, once again we are sending, our representative probably Mr. Dodev, Director, who will check again how the meeting will go, which they must do.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u274	You can leave Mrs. Boyadjieva's answer if you want. Here's a line, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply, for the committed and responsible attitude you have in the created situation at the Economic Academy of Economics. Since my question was asked about ten days ago, there really is a dynamic, I hope that these numbers that have been given to the Business Academy will be fulfilled. Today even the results are announced for the third ranking. But it is a fact that the candidate campaign was taking place in a very dynamic situation at the same time in an extremely difficult situation, which was also shown in the media by representatives of the Academy who commented on the course of the candidate campaign. In this sense, I believe that apart from state responsibility, it is also a moral duty of the Ministry of Education and Science, and of everyone who cares about the Industrial Academy after completing the reception and starting the new school year, to do all the procedures, to really establish an atmosphere for calm work of teachers and students at the Industrial Academy, because it is a university with exceptional traditions. From this high tribune in the National Assembly it is worth reminding again that in its nearly 80-year history, it is based on an extremely large donation to the patriot Dimitar Atanasov, who thus created the opportunity to have a serious university in Svishtov. Today, it has about 130,000 graduates who work in different places throughout the country and are also excited about the future of the Academy. I'm going to finish by saying that we all have to have an interest and responsibility. Of course, state institutions have a very big role to play in restoring the academics, returning the trust of people in the Industrial Academy, thousands of graduates, future students, their parents. This higher education institution has not only traditions, but also its future, and the good opportunity for young people from all over Bulgaria to receive solid education in the town of Svishtov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u276	And thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. That concludes your participation today. Thank you for answering the questions of Members of Parliament. We move on to the only question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva. The question is asked by Dora Yankova, Kircho Karagyozov and Dobrin Danev concerning a State aid scheme..Reducing the excise rate on the capital used in primary agricultural production by using a fuel vouchers system. People's representative Kircho Karagyov will ask the question to Minister Taneva. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! A new support scheme for farmers started in the past business year by reducing the excise rate on gas oil used in primary agricultural production. This scheme was implemented after the European Commission, which had approved the scheme as early as May 2011, extended it until the end of 2014. For the financing of the scheme from the 2014 budget, 84 million were allocated, which in fact represented the total nominal value of the vouchers that farmers were supposed to receive in two instalments. The first tranche was until 15 May 2014 and the second tranche This period, of course, as you understand it, has long since ended and farmers have long expected this to happen by providing them with the second instalments of vouchers of 40% of what they have to receive. Surprisingly, however, here two weeks ago they saw on the facades of the district and municipal services an order with which the deadline for filing the documents and the reports was extended by one week, surprisingly for all. In this regard, my specific question is: why has this second tranche of vouchers from the State aid scheme, in breach of all the legal documents, been not provided to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u278	Madam Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karagyozov, in one sentence, if I have to answer your question about this order and the extension of the deadline to respond to the requests of numerous farmers for failure within the relevant first period of time with the necessary documents to be prepared. A little chronology: in connection with the implementation of a State aid scheme, a reduced rate of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production by using a vouchers system in the period 19 January 13 February 2015 was opened the first admission of documents. During this period, 9 741 final declarations, declared 231 million, were submitted. Literature of fuel. Upon completion of the acceptance, it was found that around 4 000 farmers did not submit final declarations. In order to satisfy the numerous requests received by farmers who missed the deadline for the submission of the final declarations, an additional period of admission as provided for in art. 47f, para. 7 of the Agricultural Support Act. In view of the commitment of municipal agriculture services in relation to the submission of uniform applications for support under the schemes and measures for direct payments, this additional admission had to be drawn forward over time, namely 6-17 July 2015, and hence all other deadlines for subsequent stages. As you know, this year's direct payments were a first year in this year's volume, in times above last year's volume, and the difficulties given the imposition and adoption of new national eligibility criteria. During this period 213 final declarations were submitted and declared another 1 million. Five hundred thousand. Literature of fuel. At present, checks are being carried out by the State Fund of Agriculture on the final declarations made by farmers in respect of their activities and fuel consumption. The aim is to establish the actual amount of fuel consumed on the basis of which the final discount will be calculated. Unfortunately, during the verification process, a number of discrepancies have been identified with regard to the quantities of fuels declared, the supporting documents submitted and the information from the logbooks that farmers were obliged to conduct for the events carried out and a large percentage of the sample that has been verified. In this regard, additional checks shall be carried out by the Fund for Agriculture with a view to establishing the fuel actually used. They will be completed by 30 July and, on the basis of the information received with regard to the fuel actually spent by farmers, the specific discount will also be calculated. Then, on the basis of this information, vouchers from the second stage will be given, which we plan to do in mid-August.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u280	Thank you, Minister Taneva. A line, dear Mr. Karagyozov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, there will probably be difficulties because this is a relatively new relief for farmers, but I believe that this period has been too long. The deadline within which these vouchers were to be provided was 15 March, the deadline. Far beyond that time limit, you are enabling unscrupulous farmers to submit additional documents to prove their right to receive the second tranche. Therefore, I think the justification for this huge delay is not quite correct and hopefully they do not understand the farmers, because this aid is waiting for it on the eve of the most difficult agricultural period, and this was the harvest. Don't let that happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u282	Thank you, Mr. Karagyozov. Do you want a hole? Here you are, Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u283	Dear Mr. Karagyozov, I would like to stress first that farmers through industry organisations have been informed about the progress of the implementation of this state aid and the difficulties they have encountered, so we have not made one such decision without communication. Secondly, the very implementation of State aid began with nearly two months' delay, i.e. at the moment, taking into account these two months, we are still so late. We also take into account the difficulty with regard to pretty heavy administration. Therefore, the new state aid for a reduced rate, a reduction from the excise duty on fuels for farmers, is currently being developed. I hope by the end of the month, at the beginning of the next month, we will present it to farmers. It will not be with the vouchers system precisely because of this to alleviate administratively farmers. I believe that regardless of the extension of the deadline, we have, however, derived from that which has been properly paid, used its vouchers, not to be damaged and be able to complete its aid, so as to benefit from buying fuel with the respective taxes paid and has not harmed the state budget, as the application of this aid for the reduction of the excise duty of fuels clearly proves that what is being spent by farmers fuel is with all the levies paid by the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u284	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes your participation in parliamentary control today. Have a nice day. We continue with two questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov. The first is from MP Petar Slavov on progress in visa facilitation and its subsequent removal for Bulgarian citizens travelling to the US, similar to the agreement reached with Canada on 1 January 2016. Dear Mr. Slavov, you have the opportunity to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, my question concerns progress in easing the regime with the United States and the gradual visa waiver. Dear Minister, the visa problem for Bulgarian citizens wishing to travel to the United States is not yesterday, but its solution is still delayed. Efforts in this direction are undertaken by both you as Minister of Foreign Affairs and by the entire Bulgarian government. Here I would add, as the issue is from the beginning of July, the last two weeks have been particularly active on this topic and quite interesting things you have said, I suppose some of them you will share now once again, so I have a feeling that there is progress, but let me finish the matter. Support for visa waivers The Republic of Bulgaria has also received from the European Commission and our own American partners have repeatedly committed that the problem will be resolved. New opportunities for putting the issue before the US side and taking real action for initial relief and subsequent visa waiver is the precedent that was created in our relations with Canada recently, namely the Bulgarian citizens who have been traveling to Canada for the past ten years or those who have non-emigration visas to the United States since 2016 will be able to travel visa-free to Canada. The only requirement will be their registration in the electronic travel authorisation system for Canada. The progress made in resolving the visa problem with Canada could be used in our relations with the United States and in this regard, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: do you consider it possible to achieve relief for Bulgarian citizens of the visa regime with the United States as a step towards the final visa waiver in line with the recently reached agreement with Canada, namely for Bulgarian citizens who have visited the United States for the past ten years, no longer require issuing a visa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u286	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u287	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, thank you for your question. At the beginning of the answer, I would like to stress the following: "Against the background of the achieved level of bilateral relations between Sofia and Washington, described repeatedly by both sides as strategic and friendly, we note that the visa regime of the United States for Bulgarian citizens does not correspond to this high level of bilateral cooperation. It is precisely the current government, on the basis of the legitimacy that lies before the Euro-Atlantic community, which puts this issue intensively before the United States at every opportunity. Let me also remind you that at the beginning of February 2014 Bulgaria and also four other Member States of the European Union not included in the visa-free travel programme of the US Government: Cyprus, Poland, Romania and Croatia notified in writing the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission of the absence of visa reciprocity with the United States in accordance with the provisions of Regulation No 12/89 of 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. I would like to clarify that the Regulation introduced an advanced mechanism for achieving visa reciprocity. One option in this Regulation is that if, within 24 months of the publication of the notification of the Member State concerned in an official Journal of the European Union, in the case of 12 April 2014, the third country does not repeal the visa requirement, the Commission is obliged to adopt a delegated act temporarily suspending the exemption from the visa requirement of nationals of that third country. Within the framework of the mechanism established on the basis of that Regulation from 12 April 2014 in Brussels, trilateral meetings are held every six months between Bulgaria, the United States and the European Commission, which examine the progress made on the issue of visa reciprocity. In the period from July 2014 to the end of the investigation period, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement'). Three tripartite meetings were held June 2015 and the last between Bulgaria, the United States and the European Commission took place on 23 June 2015. It once again confirmed the overall assessment of the very high level of bilateral cooperation and interaction on security issues. With satisfaction was noted the signing in Washington in March this year during the working visit of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova of the Passenger Information Exchange Agreement. We should take into account that in view of Bulgaria's accession to the United States visa-free travel programme, our country fulfils the requirements of the United States security cooperation legislation. In this context, it is of particular importance that the so-called quality criterion is fulfilled, including the percentage of refused visas. This percentage for Bulgarian citizens in 2013 was 19.9% and in 2014 dropped to 15.2%. This is progress, but these rates still significantly exceed the threshold laid down in the legislation of the United States, namely up to 3% refused visas in three consecutive years. Bulgaria's inclusion in the U.S. visa-free travel program was one of the topics of talks during the visit to Sofia to the US Secretary of State John Carey on 15 January this year, as well as during the visit to Sofia of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State of the United States Hoyt Yee in April this year. In view of the time, I'll continue my answer in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u288	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Minister. Mr. Slavov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I congratulate you that you are really trying very hard to solve this problem. It is, above all, a sign, because obviously such, I would say, unfair treatment is not well accepted by the Bulgarian citizens and they expect a partnership relationship to be bilateral and good. In this direction, I believe that it is absolutely justified at every opportunity to raise the question accordingly, as we have understood, and you are doing. I am convinced that in your further speech you will mention more cases in which the issue has been raised and, I hope, this has helped make progress in the right direction. First of all, I would like to wish you, God forbid, in your term of office I would even say, in its first half, to achieve this covenant goal and to remove visas in the way that I remember in 2000 in the then democratic blue rule Bulgaria was taken off the Schengen blacklist and the Bulgarian citizens began to travel freely across Europe, which at that stage was a huge achievement against the background of the queues before embassies and then the situation. I wish it with my heart and with you as a success, and with all my countrymen. This will have a very positive effect, including our self-esteem.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u290	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u291	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, thank you for your evaluation. We're really doing our best. I would like to point out that during my working visit to Washington last week, in which I met with key representatives of the executive and legislative authorities of the United States, a permanent topic of the talks that I put in every single meeting, was Bulgaria's accession to the Programme for visa-free travel of the United States. I told my American colleagues that the existence of a visa regime against Bulgarian citizens is not in line with the high level of cooperation between our two countries. In addition, I have pointed out to our Washington partners that the visa regime is being used by other countries to create negative and propaganda messages regarding the integration process of the Euro-Atlantic community. I hope we are all aware that progress on visa reciprocity with Canada could not automatically lead to progress on visa reciprocity issues with the United States. We should clarify that Canada's exemption from the visa requirements for certain categories of Bulgarian citizens is expected to enter into force after 15 March 2016, when registration in the electronic travel system becomes mandatory. I think we can be optimistic about making further progress in terms of facilitating the visa regime of the United States for Bulgarian citizens. In this sense, we were informed of some reliefs introduced by the Embassy of the United States in Sofia concerning the procedures for issuing visas in business trips of Bulgarian citizens. The Embassy of the United States is making efforts to improve the awareness of Bulgarian citizens about the procedures for applying for a visa, which could contribute to reducing the number of visas refused. Of course, achieving these reliefs does not allow us to be content with what we have achieved. Maintaining a high level of cooperation between the two countries, including in the particularly important area of security, is an essential prerequisite for achieving the ultimate goal of dropping the visa requirements for the travel of Bulgarian citizens in the United States. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will make every effort both to increase the awareness of Bulgarian citizens when applying for visas and to make the necessary efforts to speed up the process of adopting legislation, which will increase the threshold of eligibility when it comes to bringing a country into the Programme for visa-free travel at a certain higher rate. This will also enable us to reduce the percentage enough during such a campaign and, of course, to accelerate the process of Bulgaria's entry into the Programme for visa-free travel with the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u292	Thank you, Minister Mitov. We continue with the next question to you by MP Stanislav Stanilov on the implementation of the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria of 8 April 2011. Mr. Stanilov, we hope through your question to understand what decision of the National Assembly is about. You have the floor in two minutes to formulate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! On 8 April 2011, the Forty-first ordinary National Assembly adopted a Decision on the settlement of unresolved issues between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey concerning property and social issues. The decision relates to the Friendship Treaty signed between Bulgaria and Turkey on 18 October 1925, the so-called "Angora Treaty" and the Protocol to it, which has no statute of limitations. The decision calls on the Bulgarian government to speed up its work within the Joint Committee on Unsolved Issues between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey on property and social issues and to determine the current amount of claims of the Bulgarian country. In this regard, please answer me what measures have been taken to implement the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria of 8 April 2011? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u294	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Dear Minister, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stanilov, the question of the return and compensation of the properties of the Thracian and non-Asian Bulgarian refugees is part of the unresolved issues in the bilateral relations between Bulgaria and Turkey. That's clear. Over the past 50 years, negotiations have repeatedly been held between the two countries on this issue, which unfortunately have not resulted in concrete results. The legal grounds for the claims of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Republic of Turkey are contained in the Treaty of Friendship between Bulgaria and Turkey, as you have already said, known as Angorski since 1925, and in the Protocol 2 of the Treaty on Friendship and Good Neighborhood, Cooperation and Security between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey of 6 May 1992, where it is written the following: The countries are determined to solve all existing problems, including property, social and humanitarian issues. According to an agreement reached in 2008 between the presidents of the two countries, a Joint Expert Committee on Unsolved Issues between Bulgaria and Turkey was established. In implementation of Decision No 164 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 14 May 2009 expert working groups were established within the framework of the Bulgarian part of the Mixed Commission. The main and largest expert group is the one on property and social issues, which includes the issues of compensation for the properties of refugees from Eastern Thrace and Asia Minor, as well as the return of the properties of the Foundation of the Bulgarian Orthodox Churches in Turkey. The expert working group seeks, systematizes, analyzes and summarizes the actual material necessary for shaping, updating and exposing the Turkish side of the positions and claims of the Bulgarian side. After the joint coordination and active participation of experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were drawn up and agreed on the above grounds, the first meeting of the Mixed Commission took place in Ankara on 18 May 2009. A total of four such meetings have been held so far and the fourth was held on 18 December 2013 in Sofia. At all meetings the Bulgarian side, respectively the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, clearly and categorically defended the Bulgarian position to find an adequate solution to the issue of the properties of our refugees from Eastern Thrace and Asia Minor. Our position includes the request to make specific commitments by the Turkish side for the package compensation of the properties of all Thracian refugees. It should be taken into account that the Turkish side also puts counter-property claims which are diametrically opposed to ours. Bulgaria insists that agreement should be reached on general issues relating to the nature and type of mutual property claims, the periods to which these claims relate, as well as the manner of settlement of claims. For the realization of this priority for Bulgaria issue, in addition to the continuing work of the Joint Commission, the Bulgarian side focuses on maximum use of complex opportunities, especially in the context of our membership in the European Union and the ongoing talks on the accession of the Republic of Turkey to the European Union. [[The President said that time had run out.]] Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me another thirty seconds...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u296	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u297	In this regard, in 2011 " 2012" some progress was made on the issue of the return of the properties of the Foundation of the Bulgarian Orthodox Churches in Turkey, which together with the issue of the Bulgarian refugees' properties is part of the aforementioned expert group in the Mixed Commission. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria took steps to hold a fifth meeting of the Mixed Commission. So far, the Turkish side has reacted passively. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs continues to put pressure in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u298	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stanilov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving Mr. Minister the opportunity to put his concept to the end, which was extremely important. I've been a MP for 10 years. This is my fourth term and, continuously, by our political power, we have posed precisely this question, as well as the political power IMRO, when it was in the Fortyth National Assembly, and they have also once asked this question. I feel that things are moving very slowly and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria insufficiently uses all its tools. Between the implementation of the Angora Treaty and the claims of the Turkish side on property collateral have nothing to do with it. Moreover, the Bulgarian side has properly settled the issue in a very short time for the pensions of the Turkish expatriates, I repeat................................. while our Bulgarians from Turkey are not expatriates, they are refugees. They're not adequate claims for vampire properties and all that. If there's a good lawyer in this courtroom, he can understand that and he knows it, a priori. The Foreign Minister is always in charge. This is not about you. See, when you answered, it became a question that in October it would be two years since this committee had not been in session. The policy of the Turkish state is very well-known "Slowly, backwards, never retreat." These are the three poles on which Turkish politics rests, but they were an empire, they were a democratic empire. That's their policy to the end. The question is whether or not we're going to give in. Will you personally commit yourself to moving this issue vigorously, as no matter how diametrically the policies of the political power that you represent in power and this political power that I represent in the opposition diametrically? It concerns Bulgarian interests, a Bulgarian question, even a political image of such a decision. Because as far as Turkish foreign policy is known, I repeat, they will persevere, they will not retreat, and they will face huge claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u300	Thank you, too, Professor. Stanilov. A hole, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stanilov, you're right. It's been a very long time being talked about this. You yourself defined some parameters of foreign policy or at least the attitude of the Turkish side on this issue and you realize that our energy, when faced with these parameters, is having difficulties. That is why we have been talking about these matters for so long. We are aware that this is about the protection of Bulgarian national interests. We stand by them. We didn't back down. And we will continue to stand up for them. I personally have insisted on a meeting of the Joint Committee several times before we organised an intergovernmental meeting. And I'll keep insisting on it. An intergovernmental meeting may take place when it is well prepared and part of the preparation goes through the discussions in the Mixed Commission. The energy in this case is there. I think we will find a way to make a more intense conversation with our Turkish colleagues and friends. The point is that the political situation in the neighbouring Republic of Turkey is currently complicated enough after the elections. We need to take these factors into account. We hope that there a government will be drawn up and we will be able to resume this conversation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u302	And thank you, dear Minister. That concludes your participation today. We wish you well on your way. We continue with questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva. In fact, from here to the end of parliamentary control there are three questions and one question from the MP Mr. Binev. Your question to the Minister of Environment and Water is about the implementation of the communication plan of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! It is evident from the website eufant.bg that your Ministry has concluded contracts with certain media, which raises serious concerns. The agreements in question concern the provision of programme time for the broadcasting of audiovisual forms and were concluded between March and May 2015, but advertised an expired programming period. The agreed remuneration significantly exceeds those agreed under other operational programmes. An example can be given with the data on Operational Programme "Regional Development 2007-2013" which show that no such contracts have been signed at all in the last months of this year. This information raises some ambiguity and suspicion of abuse, as it is a matter of spending considerable resources on an activity affecting an already completed operational programme. In this context, I would like to ask you what are the reasons that led to the conclusion of contracts with similar conditions and will you initiate an inspection of the case? Don't you intend to punish the employees who have allowed themselves to recommend that this be done? I think that after my questions to Mr. Lukarsky, these things will be avoided, as there were similar actions with him as well. To explain to people who may be watching us right now, it is about this: to advertise a program that has already expired, it is clear that it is about buying media comfort and cannot mean anything else. Of course, it will then be said: "We want to boast of the well - executed program. " There are ways to explain and articulate this, but it is actually about one thing, because the idea of the communication strategy of the operational programme is quite another. It is to explain what follows, what needs to be done, who are the people who need to be active and what needs to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u304	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev, I begin by saying that I cannot share the concern that you expressed regarding the doubts of unlawfulness. I also strongly disagree with the statement that you have just stated that the programme is over. According to the Regulation, the operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 end with eligibility deadlines at the end of 2015. In this sense, the programme is far from over. In relation to your question, I inform you that both the other programmes and the Operational Programme "Environment" in 2015 through the Managing Authority conducts an information campaign to implement the communication plan of the operational programme. An emphasis in communication is the presentation of the results of the implementation of the programme in relation to its completion. The campaign being held is part of the implementation of the third stage 2014 - 2015 of the programme communication plan approved by the European Commission in May 2008. Information and publicity measures shall aim at presenting to the general public the results achieved in the implementation of the operational programme and at ensuring transparency for the expenditure provided by the European Union and national co-financing. In order to implement the information and publicity measures, different information channels have been selected depending on the target groups and the objectives of the campaign. The selected communication methods are: an information campaign in the electronic media aimed at the general public and the holding of information events The communication methods used in the campaign are consistent with those objectives and target groups, the analysis of the effectiveness of the so far implementation of communication measures, phpulmetric data and analysis of television and radio audiences, as well as the possibilities for financing these measures under Priority Axis 4 of the operational programme. In order to prepare and implement the campaign in the electronic media based on pipulmetric data and analysis of TV and radio audiences, emails were sent to the electronic media for submission of offers for program time. The proposals submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Water are addressed, with the media's proposed formats: broadcasting time, price and timing, being analyzed and evaluated in the context of the ppulmetric data, target groups and campaign objectives. There are contracts with electronic media, with fixed parameters and deadlines for achieving the main objectives of the campaign: providing the general public with the results achieved in the implementation of the programme, including the contribution of the programme to improve the quality of life in the country; ensuring transparency for the expenditure provided by the European Union and national co-financing. To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that information and publicity measures are fully in line with the requirements of the regulation and are implemented in compliance with the principles of equality, timeliness, adaptability, partnership and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u306	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. The line
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u307	Madam Minister, I will ask you one more question: are you satisfied with the communication strategy and do you think it has fulfilled the objectives it has set itself? I would ask you to send me the programmes that remain to be decided for 2015 and I will send you the Communication Strategy or the advertisements that are in the media. Together with you, we will decide whether really the information provided by the media is actually a Communication Strategy or something else. I assure you that if we go to the European Commission together and we present things exactly as they seem, how the Communication Strategy is done in Bulgaria, our European partners will not be satisfied. Unfortunately, that's not a precedent. I am sure that you really need to protect that money has been expressed correctly, but believe me, it is nice to see whether the objectives that the Communication Strategy sets itself as a whole are really achieved. That's the only addition to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u308	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Binev, undoubtedly as a Commissioner who exercises control over EU funds, you have access to all information concerning the reporting of the work of the managing authorities and the achieved objectives and results of the programme, as well as the communication plan. Of course, we are always available and I declare readiness, if you wish, to discuss more details. In addition, I would like to assure you once again that the European Commission is following both the implementation of the programme and the communication plan. It was adopted by a decision of the Monitoring Committee of the Programme and of the European Commission. So it is entirely in accordance with Regulation EC182/2006. the managing authority shall fulfil its commitments which, pursuant to art. 7 require: the Managing Authority to ensure that information and publicity measures are implemented in accordance with the communication plan and aims to ensure as wide as possible media coverage by means of different forms and methods of communication at the respective territorial level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u310	Thank you. That was your last participation today. We move on to the questions formulated by the National Representative Slavi Binev to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. The first question is about bureaucratic obstacles to innovative business enterprises Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, dear Minister, dear Minister! An arrangement is a question that I asked more than five months ago. Unfortunately, we couldn't get an answer on him. It doesn't matter what the reasons were. This particular question does not require an immediate answer, but it is always good to answer the questions more quickly, because there are questions that, if you do not answer immediately, they are not relevant. I am addressing you in connection with the new company "Libra" which is competing with the current taxi companies. Against this company is particularly decisive. This company uses a lot of new cars, as far as I know, drivers meet the highest criteria. Why don't you approach other taxi companies like that? I welcome your intentions for inspections to ensure passenger safety, but I demand a full inspection of the other taxi companies as well. I believe that it is also a necessary verification of the vehicles from the public transport and the long-distance transport, as well as the so-called "marshruti taxis'. That is, this undertaking, these checks, this administrative act is very good for this company, because it guarantees passengers their comfort, but in the end there should not be a double standard. Any impartial person can see with his naked eye more than the miserable condition of the vehicles in Bulgaria. If you start the checks I have mentioned, you will prove that there is no deliberate action towards the new company. This will answer the question: is this how it stimulates entrepreneurship in our country? It is nice to carry out widespread checks on all taxis from the country, both urban, long-distance and route taxis. Also, why did you decide to sanction the firm in question? Have you familiarized yourself with her methods of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u312	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Dear Minister Moskovski, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev, another Member of the National Assembly who has remained in the Chamber! The Car Transport Act provides for the carriage of passengers by passenger cars for payment only in the form of taxi transport. In order to initiate the provision of taxi services, the carrier should comply with certain requirements which it must comply with at all times while carrying out and carrying out such activities. Otherwise, there would be grounds for terminating the registration of the carrier itself. Requirements are also established for the drivers of passenger taxi cars, which they need to meet in order to receive a certificate of driver of a light taxi vehicle. If the driver ceases to meet any of these conditions, the certificate shall be revoked. When entering work the drivers present also a certificate of psychological fitness and every three years are subject to psychological examination. The Ministry's Ordinance also lays down special and numerous requirements for light taxi cars, including those provided for a shorter period of validity of the technical examination carried out, i.e. a more frequent technical examination of such a vehicle. In the light of the high level of public importance of the same and wide range of users of a taxi service, state regulation is provided for by regulatory regulation for the initiation of the taxi activity, certain strict rules in its implementation and the implementation of constant control by the Automobile Administration and by the control authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The transport offered through the passenger passenger sharing platform by "Uber " Bulgaria" Ltd is very close to the taxi transport of passengers, in fact identical to the taxi transport. The differences with the regulated taxi activity are too minor. They are expressed in the mode of ordering the transportation.. only through smartphone technologies and applications, as well as the method of payment of the transportation.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the one hand, a taxi transport can also be ordered by application of a mobile phone, in the event that the carrier has organised such an opportunity, on the other hand, it is possible for the taxi carrier to provide and arrange for an opportunity to pay the price without cash. In other words, these differences are not significant. The ordering of the service and the payment of its value are not essential characteristics of the activity but are respectively preliminary and subsequent activities of the transport itself. Transports offered through the passenger shared travel platform, although they are essentially identical to taxis, shall be carried out without compliance with any of the requirements laid down neither for the transport itself nor for the drivers of this transport nor for the cars and, respectively, without any control by a public authority, municipal or any other entrusted to it. The conduct of public transport in the event of non-compliance gives reason to conclude that the activity carried out is unlawful and contrary to the legislation in force governing the operation of public transport. In relation to the specific case, whether checks are carried out on all taxi cars, I provide you with the following information: - checks have been carried out for 2014 at 47 thousand. 580 taxi cars; violations were detected and 2527 acts were drawn up, and from the beginning of 2015 until 15 March around 6200 taxis were checked and 379 acts were drawn up; - in 2014 574 cars were checked, transporting additional bus lines or so-called "marshruts'. There were violations and 45 acts were drawn up. By 15 March of this year 82 routes were checked and four acts were drawn up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u314	Mr. Binev, for a reply to Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe this will be the only time the patriots dominate completely.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u316	Well, in an empty room...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u317	Mr. Minister, there's no problem with the checks at all. On the contrary, I welcome the checks that guarantee the lives of our fellow citizens, and there is nothing better than that really being so. It is about the double standards of some companies that are given great care to be correct, to be precise, to other companies control is much lower. This is actually my question: what requires, by the way, that the law be so strictly applied to this company and that the law be lighter to others? We can all see the wretched condition, if we compare the two cars and the ways in which the methodology of the two companies is made at all, we will find out with the naked eye. You don't even have to be a specialist to say yes, this firm is much more prepared than this one. At the same time, this firm, which is clearly better prepared, is controlled most carefully, which wakes up... In fact, I am alerting you at the moment whether someone is abusing the power given to him or the power he exercises. That's it! You just need to assess and see if there's any unhealthy interest in someone who wants to do something. You know very well that the information I receive does not only come from the local representatives of the company, it also comes from outside, because indeed most politicians outside defend the interests of their companies and immediately alert when there is a failure to comply with European directives and European laws. I warn you that there is nothing wrong with doing checks, as long as it does not arouse the suspicion that the law is much more suspicious of some and more favorable to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u318	Thank you, Mr. Binev. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u319	Essentially, Mr. Binev, we are shifting the subject a little bit. It is not the main case whether or not checks are being carried out. I assure you that no subjectivity is applied in the award of the checks. This is about the following: the company's activities are essentially illegal for the territory of Bulgaria. As a matter of fact, my personal opinion is that we should allow as a country all new technologies and innovations to have the right to access and compete in the market. But we don't have the case. You, as a Member of the National Assembly, have the full right and the opportunity to amend the legislative framework so that they can allow such services to be applied on the Bulgarian market. At present, this activity is clearly unlawful.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u320	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Transport and Information Technology Ivaylo Moskovski is again from the National Representative Slavi Binev on e-government. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I am addressing you in connection with the roadmap for implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020. The e-government project is extremely important for the state. It will remove unnecessary administrative burdens, contribute to the transparency of the administration and will save a lot of public funds. What has been achieved in recent years is highly unsatisfactory and the costs incurred remain unjustified and raise many questions, including criminal liability for those involved in the process. What are the measures taken by your office to carry out the expected results of stage zero of the roadmap and will the project in question end in the last year, as provided for in the document cited? It will be of great benefit if a report on progress on the project for greater awareness is drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly. They will be able to take account of the gaps and further measures will be identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u322	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Moskovsky, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u323	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! Regarding the measures taken by the Ministry for the implementation of the expected results of Stage 0 of the Road map for the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020. I inform you that by date the Ministry is working mainly on five projects for the development of electronic management financed under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" and the results of which are extremely important for the development of electronic management and are part of the measures implemented in the roadmap. Project 1: "Development of administrative services by electronic means." This is under Priority Axis No 3 "Quality administrative service and development of e-government, sub-priority 3.1 "Encouraging the service of citizens and businesses, including through the development of e-government. The project includes five main activities which were completed in 2014. Project No 2: The implementation of the administrative services of users through the upgrade of the central systems for e-government. The project includes six main activities. He ended up in mid-2013. Project No 3: "Promoting the service of citizens and businesses in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications through the development of electronic management in the field of spatial data. Within the project are developed and implemented network services in the field of rail transport, based on the geographical information system of the data from the National Railway Infrastructure Company. Project No 4: "Increasing the qualification of employees from the administration at central level by improving their knowledge and practical skills for managing software IT projects in accordance with the modern............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The project is part of the implementation of measures aimed at reflecting continuous technological progress and development of digital technologies, improving human resources management, improving the qualification of public administration officials by building skills for effective development, management, coordination and monitoring of programmes and projects in the field of information technology and improving the information and communication environment. Project 5: "Improving existing and building new central systems of e-government with a view to improving the information and communication environment for better administration of citizens and businesses. Contracts with contractors following procedures have been concluded to carry out all these activities. According to the timetables for the implementation of the project's individual main activities, all sub-activitys included in this project should be completed by October 2015, which is within the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u324	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Binev? You don't want a line, so there's no back. We are going to ask on behalf of the National Representative Slavi Binev on the policy of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for dealing with corruption practices. It's a different procedure. You have three minutes this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u325	I'll try to save it, because it's starting to be very chambery everything. Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you in connection with your ministry's strategy to deal with corruption in the department. Corruption practices in such state institutions will distance our country from achieving particularly important national priorities, such as Bulgaria's accession to the Schengen area. There have been frequent cases of corruption practices in the Executive Agency. This phenomenon is very worrying and is opposed to the government's plans to deal with corruption. In this regard, I ask you to provide the policy for tackling corruption in the system of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, especially in the light of the following questions: what measures are planned to combat corruption in your ministry, especially in the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration? Why is it not allowed for an employee who has issued multiple signals of corruption at the DCI to conduct exams with candidate drivers of motor vehicles, even though it meets all requirements and is proposed by his direct superior for this? How does the ministry entrusted to you plan to improve the educational preparation of the drivers and is there a need to amend the existing legislation? What will the Ministry do about the investigation initiated by the European Commission on corruption in the issue of books in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u326	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Secretary, you have five minutes to respond. Since we are in a parliamentary questioning procedure, the answer is longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u327	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! With only one adjustment at the beginning, such practices tend to decrease, not to increase. Under point 1 of the Order, No 08-21 May 2013, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration has established the Internal Rules for the Implementation of Anticorruption Procedures, including reporting, rediscovering, detecting or having information about errors, irregularities, fraud, abuse and others in the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and the Methodology for the Assessment of Corruption Risk. An Action Plan for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption has been established in the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, which provides for specific measures to limit corruption practices. Signals of unauthorised actions or doubts about such shall be dealt with by a team of experts from the central management of the administration. Teams of employees of the central management of the administration shall carry out checks in the district departments. In the event of suspicion of corruption practices, the relevant staff shall be removed from the conduct of driving licence examinations. In order to reduce the prerequisites for the creation of corruption practices, as well as limiting existing practices, video surveillance has been introduced in conducting examinations and information systems serving the training activities and driving licence examinations, which allows electronic customer service and switching to electronic documentation in training centres and examinations. The information system serving the training activity and driving licence examinations shall include: an electronic register of applicants for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence. It contains information about each candidate trained by them, as well as access to all information on the training and examinations concerning the relevant training centre. Second, an electronic schedule: through it, the educational centers themselves choose the date on which to present the candidates trained by them, and on this basis the protocols for conducting the examinations are created electronically. Third, electronic lots: limiting the subjective factor in determining the persons to conduct the examinations. Fourth, an electronic control card: electronic application and reporting of the results of the practical exams for the acquisition of competence. The module provides an opportunity for applicants to review the video surveillance footage of their practical exam at the study centre. According to § 19, t. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of Ordinance No 38 of 16 April 2004, on the terms, procedures and conduct of the examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a licence, on the conduct of examination tests, on the theoretical examination by the resolution of an electronic test shall be made from 1 January 2016 all candidates included in the lists under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. The technical possibility for all candidates to have their theoretical exams by September is provided by solving an electronic test of tablets, i.e. the paper medium will be permanently removed by the end of this year. Regardless of the measures taken so far, there are possibilities for unauthorised actions when taking theoretical examinations. There are cases where, instead of the candidate entered in the protocol, another person who uses the applicant's ID card entered in the protocol or uses a non-real identity card with the applicant's particulars entered in the report. Electronic devices for solving electronic tests shall ensure that the determined tests are maintained and applied to them in three photographs, randomly selected moments during the applicant's exam. In the minutes of the exams, the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration is already applying photos to all candidates who have passed an exam electronically. The Executive Agency shall discuss with the Ministry of Interior the possibility of verifying the persons who took theoretical examinations before issuing the driving licence to make an electronic comparison of the picture of the person with the actual person who decided the test and took the test. There are cases in which applicants use technical means of camera, headphones when solving the examination texts. In these cases, images of the questions by camera are available to persons outside the study for conducting the exam and the applicant is dictated correct answers. A technical opportunity is currently being sought to prevent these cases. In the case of paper-based tests carried out by theoretical examinations for the acquisition of competence, in addition to the applicant's notation, symbols are identified at the place intended to mark the correct answer. We believe that the symbols have been placed in advance and the test has already been submitted to the candidates. Cases have been submitted to the competent authorities for an investigation, but this will be completed by the end of this year, as it will be completely switched to an electronic version. In carrying out ex post control of video surveillance systems in the theoretical examination offices, there are cases where applicants exchange their exams. Those cases have also been transmitted to the competent authorities. In order to ensure optimal use of administrative capacity, proposals for inclusion of persons in the list under art. 28, para. 1 of Ordinance No 38 shall be drawn up by the Head of the Regional Department concerned, taking into account the examination dates and the number of committees in the schedule of examinations for the acquisition of competence. The Head of the relevant regional directorate shall organise, manage and control the overall activity of this department. In order to discuss the possibility of increasing the number of management hours and introducing the requirements for the practical examination of candidates for the acquisition of competence from the category "B" and to take place on a school site in order to improve the quality of the training, a working group of experts and representatives of non-governmental organisations will be formed to discuss the proposals and the relevant receipts for amendment and supplement of the regulations will be made. In the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration there is no request from the European Commission concerning a corruption investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u328	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Binev, you have two minutes for two supplementary questions to the question you asked Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u329	From the very beginning, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, I have clarified that these are questions that have been asked more than five months ago and it is perfectly normal for many of them to have some questions resolved, which I applaud and which, I assure you, delights me. This is extremely important since we have somehow managed to improve the environment with these questions. And whether it is really improved, or in fact measures have been taken that only take us away from the ultimate goal, I will be able to tell you in the very near future, because I am still getting information on this issue. If there are more signals, I will introduce you to them so that they can be prevented and that bad practices can be eliminated. I assure you that there are an awful lot of signals in the European Commission on this issue, as you know, the issue of road war is constantly being raised, and this is happening precisely with those accomplices who have helped to issue false books. This has been a fact so far, I hope this fact stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u330	Thank you, Mr. Minev. Mr. Moskovsky? [[Reply from Minister Ivaylo Moskovski.]] That was the last question for you today. Mr. Binev, I congratulate you, you have broken the record of the Bulgarian Parliament seven questions and two questions, a total of nine for one parliamentary control. Due to the expiry of the item on the agenda, I hereby close this sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-24.u331	The next session of the Bulgarian Parliament is on Tuesday, 28 July, at 11.00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
