ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, I suggest to your attention the draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the time from 2 to 4 December 2015. Today's Wednesday is the first Wednesday of December and, unless otherwise decided, this is the day when the Programme is aligned with the proposals that have been made. art. 50, para. 8 of the parliamentary groups and blitz control, but according to the statement of the Presidential Council of last week and yesterday, the proposals under art. 50, para. 8 and the blitz control will take place on Thursday tomorrow. Two proposals have also been made with a view to the rotation of the parliamentary groups. On Thursday tomorrow, point 1 will be: 1. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Classified Information four bills. The first was with importers Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs from 18 December 2014. The second draft was with importer Angel Naydenov and a group of MPs from 12 June 2015. The third draft was with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs from 17 June 2015. And the last draft was the Council of Ministers from 20 July 2015. This is the proposal from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. As point two on tomorrow, we will consider the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, namely: 2. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Administrative-Processory Code with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs from 5 March 2015. There is also a second bill for amendment and supplement of the Administrative-Processional Code of National Representatives of the Reformation Block, but it was introduced in October and in respect of it the deadlines under our Rules have not expired, so there is no possibility of simultaneous discussion of the second bill with the first one requested by the Patriotic Front. Therefore, on the day of tomorrow, I repeat, we will see only the draft amendment and supplement of the Administrative procedural code with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs as point two. There are no proposals made by the other parliamentary groups under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. Today we continue with: 3. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A continuation of yesterday's extraordinary plenary session. 4. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Transport Act. Importers s Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. 6. Second vote on the European Structural Investment Funds Management Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement on the Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme in Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure in the Area? sequel from the plenary sitting last Friday. 9. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the blitz control scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, starting at 12:00. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Please vote. They voted 146 MPs: 132, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. No proposals have been made according to the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules for the inclusion of points in the weekly programme. I am providing your attention with information on billings and draft decisions for the period from 25 November to 1 December this year: Draft Declaration on the condemnation of the Republic of Turkey's military aggression towards the Russian Federation. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Energy Commission, the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation the arrangements between the Member States participating in the INTERREG V-A cooperation programme Romania "Bulgaria." Importer of the Council of Ministers. The leading Committee is on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. And one message, colleagues: materials from the National Statistical Institute have been received in the National Assembly, containing results from statistical research on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in November 2015, the general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic market prices for October 2015. The Chairman of the National Statistical Institute Mr. Sergey Tsvetarski informed the MPs by letter of a new information system INFOSTA, which is available on the website of the National Statistical Institute. Let's continue with: In yesterday's extraordinary session, the name, from 1st to 12th member including, reported, and the proposals under art. 13. There's a debate coming. First Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! We've made an offer under art. 13 to create a new para. 4, which we add to the capital expenditure of the Ministry of Justice 20 million. lv. They support an action plan drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and the government in response to the extremely sharp criticism of the Torture Committee, which held its meeting in Sofia from 13 to 20 February, I think it was. Then the Bulgarian government promised and signed a document with which it committed itself to bringing the conditions in the Bulgarian prisons into a slightly more human form of conditions for suffering punishments, conditions for the work of prison guards, because these people work in the absence of elementary working conditions. There is no meeting of the Council of Europe, the portfolio Legal Commission and the subcommittee to it, where the MPs from Bulgaria do not receive any questions: when will you finally remove these problems? There have been such sharp reports in the history of the Council of Europe only to us and to the Russian Federation, and to several prisons in Chechnya. Please support this proposal of ours, as support for the government, support for Bulgaria's image to the Council of Europe. I think that just when Bulgaria is chairing the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe, we should show our attitude and at least wash this shame off the face of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u3	Any lines to Mr. Hamid? First line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u4	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear fellow Hamid, I am surprised why you are making this proposal, since such an initiative must come from the Minister himself, from the Ministry of Justice itself. It is no secret to anyone and is not from today the problem with the crying state in which the prisons in Bulgaria are located. It is no secret to anyone that such criticisms and recommendations have been issued for years. I was very hoping now that we are expecting a re-execution of the revenue, when we expect an excess to be generated at the end of the year, when so much capital expenditure is earmarked, some of them will be allocated to this end of the year as well. And I'm surprised why you're doing something that needs the Justice Department to just initiate and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u5	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Mr Hamid, by fully supporting your commitment and care on the subject, I would like to clarify the following. In discussing the budget of the judiciary in the Legal Commission, unfortunately, there were few debates with regard to the Ministry of Justice, we received assurance that the Ministry had provided for the possibility of fulfilling the commitments made in the part. Of course, in this situation, the Ministry of Justice would find it more difficult and more limited with these means to cope with the task. Two years we did not start funding at either the Court of Justice in Varna or the construction of a new prison. I would ask the Minister of Justice to confirm and take an opinion on this and on your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u7	Third line? I won't. Mr. Hamid's a douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, at the meeting in the Legal Committee in question, the Minister said that he hoped in the budget to have funds and if there are none, he promised to find European funding for this thing, which I deeply doubt there are no such operational programmes. So there's no left to repair any arrest or prison. Mr. Kazak, why are we making this proposal, why the Minister isn't doing his job? You should ask him, not me. It seems the Minister is very busy. Moreover, the budget of the Ministry of Justice is discussed here is the entire Council of Ministers, without Minister Ivanov. It concerns human rights, the face of Bulgaria in front of the Council of Europe and I do not want Bulgaria to be compared with Chechnya in terms of treatment of prisoners and working conditions of people working in prisons and arrests. It is no secret that the atmosphere in this government has reached a level which I doubt Minister Ivanov has communication with the finance minister or with anyone. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u9	Dear colleagues, today is the mission of the European Commission and the Minister of Justice has a programme with them since early this morning. This is the reason why he is currently not present in plenary. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mr Mestan and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 144 MPs: 42, against 38, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 13 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 107 against 37, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u10	Under art. 14 has a proposal of the MPs Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs: In art.14: - Al. Section II: 1 109 914.8 " is replaced by 1 165 914.8 " t.1.1 the number "83087.5" is replaced by "99087.5" - Al. 2.: - t.1 the number..99 484,0....................................................................................................... - item 4, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The number of the current expenditures is 1 108 524.8 " is replaced by 1 187 524.8 ". (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers): - in line III. "Budget relationships (transfers) " (the number...1 083 914.8) is replaced by..) 162 914.8 (the number is replaced - on line one. The number of the budget is 1 076,76,8 and is replaced by 1 155,764,8. 2. in para. 2: (a) of row 1. The number of the employment policy is "99 484.0' is replaced by "the number of the employment policy' and "the number of the employment policy' is replaced by "the number of the employment policy' and "the number of the employment policy' is replaced by b) in row 5. The number is 615 776,2 and is replaced by 667 776,2. c) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u11	The debate is open. The word is Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! ABB's demands in the social sphere are in three directions. Firstly, we need to increase the funds for the national employment action plan. Now the funds to reduce unemployment are 73 million. This value has not moved since 2010. Before this year, the values that were allocated to combat unemployment were between three and four times higher. Within this amount we also want funds to combat youth unemployment, as this is a very painful problem and every year statistics show that young people who do not study are not working or doing anything with themselves are increasing. We also want 17 million additional funds for policies for people with disabilities and 16 million for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to increase critically low salaries at the Social Assistance Agency and the Employment Agency, as the net worth of salaries received by people with higher education there is lower than the social benefits they give away. I believe that our demands are fully justified, first of all, because the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy strictly adheres to budgetary discipline and this year is among the few ministries and departments that have not requested an update of their budget for this year. Secondly, because the increased scope and amount of funds for pensions and children's supplements that the Ministry has this year are due to the reforms carried out this year and not to the additional state subsidies. Our demands are fully justified and must be met. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u13	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We just heard ABB's demands on budget corrections. I don't know, if you have a deputy prime minister, these things should be settled. I don't understand why you have further requests for the budget? Perhaps for the audience you want to show that you have a relationship with people with disabilities, with both agencies, with employment policies. I would like to say that from BSP we will support your proposals because we believe that this is indeed the right step. But it's quite false when Minister Kalfin is here who was absent yesterday when maybe he was one of the biggest debates and he had to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u15	I would have thought you'd forgotten! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u16	...be here. I beg your pardon, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u17	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u18	So, good, maybe we should hear him too. How come there are demands he hasn't met? But look, ladies and gentlemen, the employment policies are really key, and I think we should probably talk about an increase. We have presented it from BSP because, whenever European funds are relied on, they are extremely insufficient. Moreover, a state cannot be financed entirely by European funding, as it is with another GERB government, which believes that only with European funds can raise economic growth and is proud of it. I do not know if there is another country in the European Union that so much to rely on public funds and the state to redistribute, but clearly this is their understanding of right-wing policy. Of course, the incentives for innovation, for new technologies are far away, and ultimately the main incentive is the demand, right, Minister Goranov, which will lead us to 2.1%, and the consumption will come from which from the increase of the minimum wage. But let's get back to that text! Ladies and gentlemen, this is my special address to Minister Kalfin. Mr. Minister, yesterday we saw that the majority is completely reluctant to hear about demographic problems. We see the Minister is busy now. Perhaps it is not for a reason that he has not yet submitted his plan to the National Assembly. Yesterday's deadline expired. We are yet to wait for Minister Kalfin to show how he will fight the demographic crisis. We tried to help the minister by making yesterday's proposals concerning the compensation for raising children from 1 to 2 years of age "something that has always happened and has always been equal to the minimum wage when BSP manages, but when GERB comes, of course, everything freezes and again children are not a priority. Now, Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you, it's about children with disabilities. It's not a question, ladies and gentlemen, of some enormous expense. According to our calculations, we're talking about $7 million. lv. Annually. You know, over the years, this compensation was almost equal, there was an unspoken rule, 70% of the minimum wage. Of course, GERB removed this compensation and suddenly it froze again. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about children with disabilities. We all know how difficult families raise these children, how unfair it is and how the state feels about them. Nothing gets in the way of $7 million. lv. Again to make their compensation 70% of the minimum wage, which is 420 BGN, i.e. 240 BGN. Let's raise this compensation to BGN 294. What's the problem?! Tell me why we're not doing this! Why? I believe it is not such a big problem or a collision between the left and the right. It's about children with disabilities. These families live extremely hard. I believe that the role of the state is to help in some way these families, because we do nothing else for them. We're talking about personal assistants, but you know sometimes these kids don't accept personal assistants. Sometimes the mother sacrificed her entire career just to raise this child by doing her best. At the same time, it is quite normal for the state to raise the compensation of 240 BGN. BGN 294. True, we calculate it 70% of the minimum wage. You will say that this is not the mechanism. Okay, but when there's no other mechanism, what do we do? You suggest the mechanism. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Let us make this increase because I think we will do at least something good with this budget. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u19	- What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Dear Mr. Stoynev, I might not have taken this line, but I am impressed by your concern for the people, your diligence in which you are trying to enlighten the right part of the room that you have to make some commitments to these people. However, could you tell me how you explain their behavior so far and why they do not respond to your calls? I'm very interested in this and I really don't understand it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u21	Mr. Chobanov, we're discussing budget norms, not behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u22	Madam President, we are also discussing behavior because behaviour is being made to norms, and there is no such concern in the norms, this social moment is missing. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u23	Second line? I won't. Mr. Standin' in the hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Chobanov, perhaps one should meet these people, perhaps should be among them, to know them, because in the end social policy is done with love. You have to have desire and strength to try to help these people. Before that, there was a government that did everything it could for a year and five months. All social payments have increased dramatically. [[Shouting? E-e-e!?]] That's right! The minimum wage has increased twice, and hence all payments: both for children with disabilities and for absolutely everyone. But in the end, they are now ruling GERB and ABB. So when they rule these two parties -- GERB and ABB -- let the people answer why the socially weak have no desire to help the government. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u25	There's a word for it, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, you have heard from the parliamentary group from which the Deputy Prime Minister is broadcast, some calls, some beautiful words of encouragement for youth employment, an increase in youth work, only when you look at these two items in the budget, you must first be familiar with two basic laws in this activity. One is the Employment Promotion Act and the other is the Social Assistance Act. Let me explain to you why this money is being asked for. When the Employment Promotion Act was under consideration, at one point a lobbyist proposal came up, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u27	Come on, this one's on!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u28	This lobbying proposal concerned the following measure, which turned out to be neither consistent with the Ministry of Finance nor provided funds for this lobbying amendment. So with this lobbyist amendment, colleagues, see what money is required to transport the asset probably to this party from Botevgrad to Sofia, because you see, we have to pay the transportation of these young people, who are actually a party asset, 50 km away. The simplest calculation indicates that the remuneration that this party asset is likely to receive will be lower than the cost to be made for transport. Here, this is the first so-called "lobbyist amendment" for which money is being asked for on the grounds that youth employment will be promoted. I will now transfer you to the other bill concerning these increases. It's the Social Assistance Act. Those in the Commission know that it has not yet been adopted at second reading because of the scandalous changes that are required to be made and, as a result, Bulgaria is already paying serious money on two decisions in the European Court of Human Rights. It's not enough that we're paying, but they want to charge us more.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u29	Tell me what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u30	This is § 4.. you can read it in which there is a scandal, not in the budget. I'm explaining to you why you're asking for this money.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u31	But we're on art. 14, Mr. Bayraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u32	Commenting and motivating my speech art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u33	With § 4 of another law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u34	Yes, with § 4 of the Social Assistance Act. In addition, money is also needed to increase staff salaries. However, in the same Law, it turns out that this same staff is severely limited to all the obligations that have been imposed upon him so far. In fact, you see, he wouldn't be doing social services. It turns out that this staff never performed them if you read the transcripts. Well, I ask: who wants this money for what, having to introduce electronic control, must reduce the administrative apparatus in order to be able to save money?! Quite the opposite of raising funds, asking money for crazy things. Of course, I can't support it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u35	First line, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u36	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! The Social Assistance Act... [[People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov spoke with Mrs. Menda Stoyanova]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u37	Mrs. Stoyanova, you're not distracting Mr. Bayraktarov to listen to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u38	...today is not the subject of consideration and comment. But this is the second time you have shown here that you are not a bearer of competence, but of delusions. I'm devastated that this is the second time you haven't read the Law and you don't know it. Because this law doesn't say that workers' transportation costs are borne anywhere. We're just making small jobs easier so they can find jobs. And that you are constantly talking about lobbying and accusing the majority and parliament of lobbying, I will only qualify it so that generality is the wrong conclusion of myself for others. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u39	Second line? The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I admit that I have no futurological ability to guess in the future. Unlike you, however, I claim to read the laws very carefully. You can read your proposal very carefully, which concerns funding within 18 months. Eighteen months! After these 18 months, the person called "young age" in Botevgrad, participating in the party asset, will have to be replaced with the other party asset. If you have not read your Law and most importantly your proposal, because you have done it, that is another matter. I've read it carefully! There are also shorthands that are guarded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u41	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues of the ruling majority, we have differences in what policies should be made, including through the budget. That's understandable. We argue whether highways and constructions should be made, as you prefer, or whether economics and investment in people's incomes should be made to stimulate consumption. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] What's your problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u43	Colleagues, please! There's a line, you'll take the floor for lines! Please don't interrupt the speaker! [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u44	There's a tribune, get up and say something. Yesterday you're quiet like fish, you're a big erbab.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u45	Please don't fight!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u46	I propose in this dispute that we take a third independent source and perhaps the most important one what do Bulgarian citizens think? In the last four polls, everyone pointed out that the number one problem was unemployment and income. I put our arguments aside and we focus on what they say. How does unemployment fight? In two ways: the state helps companies and the economy to develop and provide jobs in the 2016 budget there is no such thing. The second way is that the state directly helps the unemployed through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the so-called National Employment Action Plan. What have you done here? Nothing either! Seventy-three million has been like this for years. We propose that this money be increased to 100 million. Why? Firstly, because it is the number one problem for the Bulgarians, the second is because in the 2016 budget, out of 400,000 unemployed, officially registered, and unofficially there are many more, you expect 6,000 to find work. Out of almost half a million. Six thousand. So what do you say to the Bulgarian citizens for whom this is problem number one? You say, "This is our last concern." Let us increase the funds for combating unemployment. Secondly, in these polls, people point to education as a problem. We propose to increase the funds for the first-graders. The help to leave school, and to give them both to second and third grade. Why? This year in the first grade are recorded 13,000 less, colleagues. Of course, one of the reasons, not the only one, is that some of the families have no money to send their kids to school. Twenty percent drop out of high school between first and eighth grade. One of the reasons is lack of funds. If we believe that education is important to this country, let us at least help those children who are in Bulgaria to be able to go to school or continue school. The last of the children with disabilities. I absolutely don't understand that! Seven million for disabled children. You can spend $2 billion on capital expenditure, gardens, fountains and pavements, where you're going to steal money, you can't give $7 million to disabled children?! What kind of argument is that? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Colleague, give us an argument, but here, from the stand, not from the spot. From place to place, anyone can. Come and say you're wrong here and here, you're right here and here. The main thing is: with this budget in the part of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, you say to people: "For you can work, education and income be the most important, for us they are the last concern. I hope the Bulgarians understand this message.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u47	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u48	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I take note of the proposal to raise money for children with permanent disabilities. From their personal experience as Head of the Project "Increasing the welfare of children" in Bulgaria from 1998 to 2003, dealing precisely with the problems of children in need, children in disadvantaged situations, children who are in institutions and knowing the main task that has always been put on the so-called "deinstitutionalization" of these children, the only way in which this can happen is to encourage parents to raise them in a family environment, in them, and not to give up. In order for this to happen, it is natural that income must be provided. If we do not provide them with income, if we do not provide them with normal conditions in which they can take care of these children, they will hardly even be able to want, even if they have a huge desire to look at them at home, most likely what will happen is to increase the number of children in institutions. Please, seven million is nothing compared to the costs that can be much greater if the children go to an institution that, on the one hand, is inhumane, on the other hand, economically unassisted. In this regard, I ask you again: manifest humanity, show understanding, manifest statehood, and show concern for parents who, by sacrificing a career by sacrificing themselves, have dedicated themselves to the care of such children. I hope your mind still prevails with you. Put the politics aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u49	A line to Mr. Ermenkov? I won't. The word wants Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think there was a lot of time when the debate on the budget related to social policy could have developed. I am very sorry that the BSP decided to leave the committees and not participate in the debate on the budget for second reading. There was an opportunity to discuss different numbers, different policies. But that didn't happen. I'm sorry, the budget is a place where there really should be a clash of policies not only in front of the cameras, but also in the working committees where we could not have this conversation. Yesterday was also available, by the way, I heard and read all kinds of inappropriate jokes made by colleagues. There was a deputy minister, the manager of the NSI was at your disposal and so on, so there was hardly a deficit of information on who to commit to the policies that were being made. A few words on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2016, including some of the proposals we have heard. Honourable Members, next year's spending in the country is increasing by about 2 billion. BGN, a little less I've said it several times, of which a large part, somewhere around 370.. 380 million, is an increase in the social sphere. It goes in two directions: for pensioners and children. The large number that is increasing is linked to the pension system and the NSI budget, which was adopted yesterday. With regard to children's policy, within the framework of the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we expand the scope and increase, as far as possible in the budget, the expenditure on this policy. Yes, there are additional suggestions. I'll tell you why I'm not happy with next year's budget, as I'm sure all of my colleagues are, too. Here are the colleagues, hardly anyone is happy. Everyone wants to conduct more policies. The social policies, ladies and gentlemen we are making, new this year, are due to the reforms we made in 2015. All these additional revenues, with very few exceptions, are practically generated from additional resources. If we increase the scope of families who will receive child support and funds for children to a third child, as is in the government's programme, this is the same budget that we worked with in 2015. This is because of the changes in the Family Aid Act for children that were adopted. If the pension system is able to separate 350 million more as a state social security budget (APO), this is largely, with a small addition from the state budget, at the expense of already changing the pension system that we have introduced. So if you look at the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the new policies that we propose compared to 2015, it is 0.76%. Yes, that is why I think there are policies that could be financed better, because what we are doing is doing it because of the reforms that have been made 2015 and they are giving results. I take note of the concern for unemployment. You know very well what the situation with unemployment is. It falls much faster than we expected. Don't play with numbers that aren't normal. Come on, you say there's emigration, people are fleeing the country. Forty thousand new jobs in 2015. More than 3 million employed people have not happened since 2008. These are not fictional things. In the case of reduced subsidised employment, these are jobs in the economy here, both Minister Lukarski and the colleague. Jobs, honourable Members, are created by the economy, not by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. What we do is we help those who are outside the labour market, prepare themselves, train themselves to reach the labour market, including measures that excite Mr. Bajraktarov with a job offer within a 50 km radius. Then, when there's 50 kilometers from the job-seeker's workplace, yes, we offer it to him. So far, it's been 30 kilometers. What I can say is that there is no young person until 29 years in Bulgaria who wants to work and study and we do not offer him with this budget that we have, either a workplace or a professional qualification that will then lead him to a job. Yes, he must be willing to change his place of residence if necessary, or choose between a range of professions that are actually sought on the market. But we will provide and finance its preparation. This is what we do with this budget that we have. With regard to children and children's supplements that have been mentioned here, I think, in a rather incorrect way, related to the parents of children with disabilities. You propose to increase from 240 to 294 BGN. The monthly payment is like this and you're telling me that this will suddenly ease people, give them the opportunity to support their children and so on. There is no way this is going to happen at the same time as the criticisms you are poisoning here in the Chamber that the TelKs must reform and the deadlines that you voted on yesterday in the budget of the DVO, in which you want Minister Moskov and me to submit a proposal to something that we have already committed to, for a change in the disability system and for the announcement of TelK-ve. So, what do we do first, change the system or increase the funds first? What I want to tell you is that the parents of disabled children, a large part of the personal assistants, who are new policy and who this year we double out of 15 thousand we make to 30 thousand who were gone, everywhere, especially the children with severe disabilities, their parents are personal assistants. The state pays these people insurance, including pension, including health care. The amount obtained for raising a disabled child is double the amount that is obtained normally for raising a child. Yeah, that thing's not enough, there's been a lot of hard cases, and all of you that we've dealt with this thing, we've seen these hard cases and that it changes their parents' lives. What else are we doing? We are making modern policies that exist throughout Europe. Not 50 leva. The parent's more, and the daycare centers where these children can go so that the parent can go to work, be able to go to take a breath, be able to see if he has to with friends, change the environment a little. Because really raising such children is very difficult. Daycare centers are a policy that needs to be made. These aren't institutions. This is an opportunity for you to have free time, to have extra income, to have an income from work, not what is happening and what you are insisting on is coming out of TelK's decision, some money is being given that goes nowhere, and the person is being sent home. It's a bad policy and I won't support it. This is not about the 50 leva that you say: "See what will happen to the children. It is about making policies. First, we will change the system for TelK and, secondly, I guarantee you that, as we have done the other reforms and funds have been released and here funds will be released and they will go to parents of children with disabilities, but not in the way you want. Last, two words on the National Employment Action Plan. Dear colleagues, it is 73 million since 2010. We therefore insist that it increase. Yes, we compensate, since there is no understanding and opportunity, with European funds, in which the Programme is the best in Bulgaria, both in terms of absorption and at the pace of work, and in terms of the opportunities it provides. But we must sooner or later mobilise the budget to deal with such policies. So the policy that is in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is actually within the framework of the possible. I wish it was more. I am not the only one who wants more money for more policies, but in these conditions we do the maximum, so that through the reforms we make, there is an effect and there is more justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I will briefly repeat that this is about some 7 million and it is about children with disabilities and their parents. Personally, I feel disgusted and disgusted after all the tyranny we've just heard, after all these honest lies to a large extent. Employment had increased. How can he not rise when people emigrate?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u53	Are you going to make a statement or comment to the negotiators?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u54	A statement, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u55	All right, I'm waiting. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] You've been asking him questions all day yesterday, colleagues. I warned him to answer you. Isn't that what you wanted from me yesterday? [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Didn't you want the minister to answer? We're listening, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u56	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I have indeed heard requests from my colleague, Tasco Ermenkov, to show and humanity other than politics. I think humanity is before politics. Politics comes to a later stage. Politics or lack thereof, because politics means the art of redeploying goods. I didn't hear a word about this art from this tribune just now. I didn't hear anything that would lead to a more normal development, to a better existence of those people who are in need, to a greater justice. This is only proof that this government, this budget in no way has a vision, no policy in relation to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u57	He speaks general matters, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u58	If you want a line, come in, I'll hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u59	Colleagues, he's got three minutes. Let him speak his mind within the time he has. Even if you call, we won't change.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u60	Common things, common things talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u61	Dear colleagues, if you insist so much on making any reply or speech, we have not heard from you since yesterday. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] It is good to hear from you, but you are obviously ashamed of yourself from this budget, because you are aware of where all this work will lead, especially in social policy, especially after what we have heard here the minister speak a little while ago. I hope there's still common sense here in this room. I do not know which half of it is in, but I am sure that these people who show humanity, those people who have not lost the person in themselves will vote against this decision against this budget and will support our proposals because the children of Bulgaria, whether they are disabled or not, deserve more. Yeah, they deserve that $7 million extra.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Popov. [[Noise.]] A line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, how do you comment on the fact that almost money in the social sphere is increasing because we take it especially for the DEO, from the pensioners? When you impose on them the increase in internship and age, when you restrict people's right to retire, there was more money left, and that money we use almost to fill a hole, and at the same time the hole increases. How, Mr. Popov, will you answer the following that almost now, during this government, this measure was invented that the mothers of children with disabilities are hired and almost paid? That's what it's always been! We want extra on this pay, because everyone knows how hard it is. How do you comment, Mr. Popov, that we are now boasting of 40,000 new jobs in one year and only 2014. From January 1st to May 52,000 new jobs from the Bulgarian business were created? So what is presented to you as a great policy de facto, unfortunately, is a small part of a policy before, when it was with a minister who is now here in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u64	We understand he ruled with love. Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u65	Mr. Popov, the honourable President of the National Assembly correctly told you not to comment on what the Deputy Prime Minister said, because we and what you said are in different planes. One was in the proposal now, today, to decide to help the mothers who raise children with disabilities, and the other we have heard from the Deputy Prime Minister was a future that will be indefinitely, once in the foreseeable bright future that we have been dealing with for a long time. Therefore, Mr. Popov, I ask you very much, the next time you talk, consider the audience with the Deputy Prime Minister, with colleagues who are anxious to run through this budget so that it can be accepted more quickly, colleagues who are very easy to speak from the place, especially back there, Mr. Lachezar Ivanov, who constantly shake hands and make speeches. So be careful when you speak. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u66	Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Popov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u67	Thank you. Dear colleague Ermenkov, yes, I will really respect what you just said. We won't be bothering colleagues who are really in a hurry and rushing through this budget, reading it as the devil's gospel. You're right, Mr. Stoinev, I have an answer to these questions. I think the government has an answer, too, but they're ashamed to come and say it here from this tribune. This is how we will think for a while until the misery of 90% of Bulgarian citizens is knocked on the door. Then it'll be a different situation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I heard here it wasn't the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's job to create jobs. Mr. Minister, come to Ruzhintsi, for example, where unemployment is over 70%...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u68	You have a back-up to your replicators. The Minister didn't replicate you, Mr. Popov. You asked him a question and yesterday, he was kind enough to answer. Break procedure, respond to lines. If you have nothing to say to them, sit down. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u69	Mrs. Chairman, my duplicate is for my colleague Stoinev because he touched on this topic. It is interesting how the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will make a social inclusion, as said Minister and colleague Stoinev [[Laughter]] where unemployment is over 70%, where there is no economy where there is no investment and there is no prospect of any investment? [[Heckling]] I'm talking about Northwestern Bulgaria. I hope that fellow Members who have been able to hear our request, our demands and proposals, will vote with...... to increase the budget with these notorious 7 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u70	Personal explanation of Lachezar Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! This is where they challenged me to a personal explanation. I mean, in order for there to be money, first, there has to be a working economy, and in order to have a working economy, so that it can... [[Noise and lines.]] Don't talk to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u72	You start with a statement, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u73	In order to have a working economy, there must be conditions for a factory to be built, a company, a factory. As far as the disabled in Bulgaria are concerned, since May has increased by 200 thousand so far. I will not tell you the name, I will only look at you with 200,000, but towards today...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u74	Mr. Ivanov, you took a personal explanation procedure because you felt affected by Mr. Ermenkov, who told you that you were shaking hands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u75	My personal explanation is that. That's right, I'm shaking my hand from place to place because...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u76	Tell him you're not shaking hands. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u77	Rucomaham from a place because in Bulgaria there are one million and two hundred thousand disabled without war, without being in a situation of any extreme environment. One million two hundred thousand! About your speech and this ping-pong we watch all the time, how they toss their ball here and Mr. Mikov, I'm sorry I mentioned his name. [[Laughter]] To present themselves to him, valuable time has been wasted to adopt the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u78	Colleagues, please take this seriously, we are looking at a second reading of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u79	I call on everyone here to a greater business, so that we can look at the state budget more quickly. We're wasting valuable time! Thank you. [[Private applause. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u80	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, and I am allowing myself to make a comment on what happened earlier. Mr. Ivanov was told that they were shaking hands helplessly from the hall. Yesterday all day he didn't get involved and you here allowed him to talk about issues that he probably didn't understand or want to show up in front of the cameras. There is a line in which a Member of the National Assembly may speak. This place isn't in the form of a personal explanation. You intervened well, but you had to remove him from the stands, as you do with our MPs when they deviate from the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u82	Are you calling me to do it again, Mr. Svilensky? [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Maybe that'll happen within the day. There are no other speeches, the debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Todorova, Mikov, Kuchukov, Nikiforov and Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 135 MPs: 49, against 38, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 123 MPs: 38, against 45, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 14 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 95, against 25, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u83	There's a negative vote here, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u84	Madam President! We from BSP left Bulgaria cannot support such a text, which says that spending on first-graders is not important, which says that 20% of children drop out between I and VIII grade, which text says: "We, the government, do not care, barbar with the social minister, who here tells us about policies that children of 50% poor parents who leave in the first grade, in the second and third grade leave school. Such a text, which says more money for unemployment, because unemployment is falling on a clear mechanism........................ of Terminal 2........................................................................ If there are any other bombs out there on Terminal 2, by bus across the border. Such a policy offers today's government to the Bulgarians and they will feel more and more this invisible result from the management of GERB. They will feel it, their children will feel it, after the New Year they will feel it with the increased wine, they will feel it with the increased electricity costs. Don't wonder, that's what you do to Bulgarian citizens! To have money for highways, from which you can incest the rates of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u85	Mr. Bojinov will make a negative vote. We're listening, Mr. Bojinov. We're gonna be really sad right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u86	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have expressed my attitude towards this lack of social and human sensitivity, expressed by the majority, by voting against. But I was very impressed by the minister's behaviour. They listened to this debate, listened to the changes for those 7 million for disabled children, and it wasn't a million and two hundred with the fake TELMs, but children who created them that way. Why did the ministers come out...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u87	Because there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u88	No, because they were uncomfortable with those arguments. [[Laughter and excitement on the right]] and in these speeches to witness your vote. And you're saying I'm not ashamed? Someone else should be ashamed, ma'am! Another one. I therefore voted against, and the ministers came out, and the responsibility remains yours, honourable Members of the majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u89	Come on out, you guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u90	Let's continue with art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u91	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Tanev and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In para. 1 in the table: (aa) in row II, the cost of the number....436 541, 3..is replaced by..448 541, (bb) in row II. 1. the number of the current expenditures is replaced by 433 541,3. (c) of row III "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " and III.1. The figure of the budget with the central budget (+/-) is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the European Union. (b) In para. 2 in the table of row 2 (c) A new para shall be created. 6: Of the budget funds under the programme "Diagnosis and Treatment Policy" for treatment activities "In vitro" are provided not less than 24 million levs. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following changes are made: 1. In para. The following changes shall be made in Section II "Costs' and Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - Section II, the number....436 541,3....to be replaced by the number..476 541,3.. - Section II row 2. the number - Section III, the number..394 541,3.... 434 2. In para. 2 row 2. replace the number..316 962.8..356 - line 3. In para. In row 1, the number s'270 899,4's to be replaced by the number's'310 899,4' is replaced by the number's'. 4. The creation of para. 6: The capital expenditure under para.1 and, respectively, the costs of the "Policy in the field of diagnosis and treatment' shall include 40,000 thousand. BGN, of which 25 000 thousand. lv. are for building infrastructure for emergency medical care and 15 000 thousand. lv. are for the construction of complex services centers for children with chronic diseases and disabilities. Those funds cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) adopt the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2016 as follows: (according to attached table). (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (according to attached table). (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2016 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2016 by the Ministry of Health as follows: (according to attached table). (4) The Ministry of Health shall give compensation to state and municipal health care institutions, and to medical institutions, commercial companies with mixed state and municipal participation in capital, funds from the Revolving Investment Fund under the project "Reform in the health sector - BUL 4565" loan for purchase in 2016 of medical equipment and other fixed assets on the basis of contracts concluded for the reimbursement of the funds made available in monthly instalments. (5) The funds provided by the order of para. 4 are up to the amount of the recovered and unspent funds from past years and the proceeds from the Revolving Investment Fund under the project under the Health Sector Reform - BUL 4565
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u92	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposals are in the following priority directions, namely for building infrastructure for the purpose of emergency medical care and for building complex services centres for children with chronic diseases and disabilities. I think there is no point in convincing each other how useful and necessary it would be to implement these priorities. Of course, the budget clearly provides for other priorities and not everything can be covered. During the year, of course, the proposals we have made will continue to see if they react in any way, whether there are any results and whether negative effects on some of the proposals are generated, as there is no reaction. I understand and am aware that the Minister has a much better view of the policies of some ministries than the ministers themselves, at least with regard to the effectiveness of the policies they conduct. However, I wish that the ministers would be represented here and that they would take these priorities into account, say if they were thinking of doing something, see whether they are priorities and recognize them and how they could react. Unfortunately, I guess that's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u95	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! According to the previous article we discussed, one of our colleagues said that this year there will be 13,000 first-classers less and this is due to lack of funds. Personally, I think it's because of a lack of children. Our proposal with colleagues from the Reform bloc is related to the so-called "Fond" in vitro. We propose that the amount for this fund be doubled. I am sure that each of you knows someone who is willing to take advantage of this procedure and this is also one of the steps to deal with the demographic crisis that we have entered. I'll give you very little information about the assisted reproduction center this year for the first six months. For the first six months, 1,400 procedures have been made, and on the basis of preliminary procedures there are 450 children born to people who have passed through the centre itself. There are over 2,000 applications, there are over 1800 approved applications. It is very important for us to make policies in this direction. So we propose that the amount, which this year is 12 million, should double and become no less than 24 million. I hope that most of you, in fact, all of you, will support this proposal. Of course, most of you will say well, where will these funds come from? They will come from the increase in excise revenue. This government, in particular Minister Goranov, proved that they are doing well in this activity. This year there are raised over 1 billion leva in this activity. And what is 1 billion compared to 12 million? I think that once we take this step, we are doing two reforms. The first is that we push revenue and increase revenue by increasing excise duties, and the second is that we are working on this very big problem with the demographic crisis. We all agree that if this money is increased, according to the statistics it has from the Centre, there will be a total of 900 new children per year, and this is 30 classes, 30 classrooms will be filled, the question is that we take some steps in this direction. Of course, we need a medium-term and long-term strategy and only the increase in this amount will not increase and deal with the demographic crisis, but this is one step, and I hope you will support this proposal. I am sure Minister Goranov and the NRA will find a way and these funds will be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Emil Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I see Minister Moskov is gone, but he's probably writing a law again. After the public health tax, there may now be a public safety tax. However, honourable Members, as you can see, we at BSP have not even bothered to make proposals in the budget part of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u98	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u99	We have done this for the simple reason in one year we have found that there is no hearing with the team of the Ministry of Health, a hearing capacity that apropos is not there and the manageable ones, and they do not have it, the government, the reformers do not have it either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u100	Please, on the suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u101	This budget is essentially repeating exactly last year's budget. He's a copy-paste. There's no politics in it, absolutely nothing more. In fact, this budget shows the incompetence of the Ministry of Health, of the team. It would have been easier for me to say the impromptuness. [[(Shouts from GERB:]] If that's what you like. There is no policy in this budget. There's absolutely nothing in this budget! There is not a word in this budget that public health is de facto bankrupt. In this budget, there is not a single word about the debts of hospitals, the public hospitals only need to recall, only 11 hospitals have no obligations, and all the other hospitals with liabilities are decapitalised. Their duties are more than just statutory capital. That is why I am worried that Minister Moskov will not be remembered as the Minister of Public Health, but will be remembered as the Minister who closed the Bulgarian healthcare. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all smiling, we are talking about the demographic crisis, we are talking about people, we are talking about social policies, but we forget that there will be no health care where to be treated. Since there is absolutely nothing in the budget to be specific and accurate, there is still one change. This change is 2 million more for the administration. Mr. Minister Goranov, my question is to you after this year Minister Moskov fought in the chest that he has made administrative reform in the Ministry that he has hardly cut more than 25% of the state administration, what does the 20% increase in this particular item in the budget programme for administration require? If you could answer. If not, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u102	Dear Assoc. Rainov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u103	No, I'm a doctor, unlike others.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u104	You've messed up a lot of procedures. We're not in parliamentary control, we're not at first reading. At second reading, there are only proposals, concrete proposals, and you did nothing of the sort. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u105	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking the lead procedure. Even though you made a proper remark to the unspeakable, you didn't take away his word. However, this is a budget that is being viewed as a second vote. At the first vote, philosophy is discussed and political arguments are made, and we are talking about the substance now. I ask you very much from now on, if someone comes out who develops some precongress policies and I don't know what, just take his word away from him, according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. After all, this is not a convention, this is the Bulgarian National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u106	Thank you. Although I agree with everything you have said when you are given the opportunity, you can take the floor away from whoever you decide. For now, I'm judging him. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 52, Against 9, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u107	Mr. Chairman, I'd like a re-vote procedure. My request is obvious to colleagues from GERB, who did not give a single vote, and we need very little to do something in the direction of the in vitro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Revoting procedure. They voted 114 MPs: 54, Against 6, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 31, against 43, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the generally supported text of the importer for art. 15 who found a place in her report. Vote art. 15 of the Commission. 120 MPs voted: 94, against 21, abstention 5. Article 15 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u109	Under art. 16 has a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Article 16 (1): (a) in row III. the number "sixty-three-eight-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero' is replaced by four-fourty-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero-zero. (b) of row III.1. the number s. '894 826,3's to be replaced by s.901 826,3'; (c) of row III.2. the number "456,618,3' shall be replaced by "463,618,3'; (d) of row III.2.1. the number "456,618,3" to be replaced by "463,618,3 " The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, which is identical. Proposal by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following changes are made: 1 C. 1, Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) " are made the following changes shall be made: - Section II, the number - Section II, row 2, the number - Section III, the number..433, 208,0..................................................................................................... - Row 1 of Section III, the number..894 2. In para. 2 line 2. the number - line.......... 445, 468,0............................................................................................ 3. In para. H, row 1. the number..231 4. They're creating an al. 5, 6 and 7: In the capital expenditure under para.1 and, respectively, in the expenditure for "Policy in the field of equal access to quality higher education and development of scientific potential', the budget programme "P' for access and quality improvement in higher education' include 50,000 thousand. lv. for the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure in higher schools which cannot be spent for other purposes. (6) In the capital expenditure under para.1 and respectively in the expenditure for "Policy in the field of equal access to quality higher education and development of scientific potential" are included 20 000 thousand. lv. to build research support infrastructure which cannot be spent for other purposes. (7) In the capital expenditure under para.1 and respectively in the expenditure for "Policy in the field of equal access to quality higher education and development of scientific potential" are included 10 000 thousand. lv. for the construction of scientific infrastructure to attract and develop young scientists who cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1 Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) " the following changes shall be made: - Row 1 of Section III, the number..894 826,3...906 - Section III, row 2. the number - Section III, row 2.1. the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1 section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": (a) of row III.1. The reference budget budget for the budget shall be the number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of (b) of row III.2. "Budget relations with other budgetary organisations" and in line III.2.1. The number of the number of transfers is "456,618.3' and is replaced by "468,618,3'. 2. in para. Two in line two. "Politicals in the field of equal access to high-quality education and development of scientific potential' shall be replaced by the number................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA The following amendments shall be made: - on line one. The reference budget budget for the budget shall be the number of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of - in row 2. "Budget relations with other budgetary organisations" and in row 2.1. The number of the number of transfers is "456,618.3' and is replaced by "468,618,3'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. If you will excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I have missed a proposal from the National Representative Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in Article 16 (1): (a) in row III, the number..433, (b) of row III.1. the number (c) of row III.2. the number "456 618,3" shall be replaced by "468 618,3 "; (d) of row III.2.1. the number "456 618, 3 "to be replaced by "468 618,3 ". The Commission does not support the proposal. I was fooled because Mr. Veliv is an importer in the same texts, in the same lines, with different amounts. That's for clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u110	Thank you. The word has the popular representative Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is no accident that seven of the parliamentary groups made the same request to increase the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This is an almost constitutional majority and I think that we as National Assembly are giving a very clear sign that we want the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to be supported. Of course, we could also set conditions. We could demand that some of the amount that we will grant go to young scientists so that they are encouraged. We'd also like some reforms. But if we continue with this policy of repression, we condemn the Academy of Doom, as neither private research institutions nor university centers do science as BAS does. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences produces 52% of science. It is also evident from the studies of the National Statistical Institute that only 15% of companies and companies in Bulgaria tend to give funds for research and development, as the structure of companies in Bulgaria is of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is, we see that funding cannot come from the private sector, and that is for now the responsibility of the state. In Bulgaria, only 0.3% is allocated to science against an average of 1.8% in the rich countries, 2.7% in the United States, 3% in Japan and 6% in Israel. It is time for us, too, if we want to become more competitive, I repeat, against a request for reforms and encouraging young scientists to grant funds to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the national representative Mariana Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria is to increase the funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in Budget 2016 by 12 million. lv. It is shameful that compared to 2015 the increase of funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is only with 400,000. BGN, which is actually the increased contribution to the European Metrological Service, which is paid through the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and a real increase for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences there is no, i.e. it is equal to zero for 2016. In the first government of the Political Party GERB, when de facto the subsidy for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was drastically reduced by 40%, then Finance Minister Simeon Djankov said it was a crisis measure. Unfortunately, however, it proved with severe consequences and led to the fact that in the following years the average salary at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is below BGN 530. About 1500 Bulgarian scientists who were expelled from this policy and a large number of them, with extremely high qualifications, went to work at famous institutes in Europe and around the world. This cannot be defined in any other way than genocide to Bulgarian science. I would like to point out to you some of the opinions of Bulgarian scientists who say that what is happening to Bulgarian science is a ritual suicide. painfully and slowly, because in order to drain young blood of Bulgarian scientists this is really one of the worst consequences for the development of both science and the nation in Bulgaria. It is not normal for Bulgarian scientists to receive a salary when they start working in the scientific institutes, from 400 to 450 BGN. medium. I think they deserve whatever start-up salary the primary teachers have about 600 BGN, to receive one that will be an incentive for them to be able to join the Bulgarian scientific institutes. In addition, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences through projects provides 40% of its revenues. This is a sign that they are really making serious efforts to be able to cope with this situation. However, in order to participate in international projects, they must also have co-financing money, which they do not currently receive to a sufficient extent. All parliamentary groups, with the exception of the political party GERB's parliamentary group, have tabled a proposal to increase money for science. This, unfortunately, is another sign of the attitude towards Bulgarian science and I believe that today, during the discussion of the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science, we really need to act wisely and take steps that are important for the development and preservation of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, because only with the increase of funding, the funds for the Academy, we can really take a step forward to stop this process of serious difficulties before research and one of the oldest institutions in Bulgaria, such as the Academy of Sciences. The scientific potential of the state, unfortunately, is melting. There are no established scientific traditions and schools lost. The development of research and technological transfer opportunities for development and deployment of scientific innovations to the practice, to the business for conservation and development of scientific directions related to Bulgarian literature, Bulgarian history, Bulgarian culture are on the brink of survival. They were already mentioned in previous speeches what is the small percentage of the opportunities of the Bulgarian business for participation and financing of high technologies and innovations. Therefore, our only chance is the state to take urgent financial measures to stabilise and strengthen the scientific potential in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences not only as institutional funding in the part of research, fundamental, humanities, in the part of capital expenditure, but especially in support of scientists with financial incentives. It's about both young and established scientists. And, of course, through project funding to provide additional opportunities for research programmes related to national priorities, as well as means to help Bulgarian scientists access international scientific programmes and projects. I therefore appeal to you to support the proposal made to increase the funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for Budget 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Do you have any lines? I won't. The People's Representative Milen Mihov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u115	Honourable President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will express my personal opinion, as I am a co-worker, along with my colleague Borislav Velikov and five other representatives of different parliamentary groups. I'm glad, Mr. Secretary, that you're here to hear what I'm about to say in person. When we talk about Bulgarian science, I think there is no debate, there is no doubt that it is seen as a priority, as a factor of economic development, social stability and national security, but when it comes to its financing and its development, for decades the state sees the Bulgarian science as something that can receive one part of the rest of the budget. Not since yesterday, not since that day is this approach to Bulgarian science. And it is high time in your government and in the management of the Forty- Third National Assembly to break this momentum, to give a new approach and a new policy in the development of Bulgarian science. This year we are witnessing several factors that show how far we have gone to under-financing of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, non-functioning of the Science Research Fund this year, limiting the funds for research in the Bulgarian universities under the famous Ordinance No 9. And then we ask the question: what means will we develop science and where? The Bulgarian business would engage in the development and financing of science if it saw a responsible state policy towards this sector. No entrepreneur will put their money into research unless there is a secure partner on the other side in the face of the state. It's the law of business. And if we wait for the Bulgarian business to become a prime factor for the development of science, we will not wait for this moment. In this direction, I appeal to a new attitude because without the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, without adequate funding of its activities, without funding the research on the various instruments established in the state policy through the Fund of Scientific Studies, through funding of research in the Bulgarian universities, we will continue to deepen the negative trends in the last two, for three decades already, and this will lead to the end of the youngest, most capable, most prepared part of the Bulgarian youth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u116	Thank you, my dear. Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Mariana Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We at the DPS are also announcing our strong support for you to think about and accept our proposals for a change in the parameters of the budget subsidy for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Since 2009, BAS has been the only beneficiary of appropriations that has not changed its growth in the budget subsidy. All other sectors are growing, Minister, only the Academy is even in a negative position on the budget subsidy. For us this is inexplicable as the position of the government, provided that Mr. Boyko Borisov's second government is in line with the European directives on the economy of knowledge, on the growth of investments in science. And besides, even in your Programme for Sustainable Development of Bulgaria, the Programme of Government, you have recorded that there should be investments in the direction of synchronization and in the direction of ensuring economic growth through synchronization between business and science! What investments to ensure economic growth after you refuse to recognize as the subject of your policy, ergo, you are blaming the Programme for the Sustainable Development of Bulgaria in this part of the science, and you are showing that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is not your beneficiary of appropriations. The young scientist at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences cannot receive no minimum wage, but it is even possible, given the time served and therefore the parameters, his salary will be lower than the salary of the support staff! And when you have accepted in your Programme and in the Strategy for Scientific Infrastructure that you will pursue the parameters of investments that are co-ordinated with the parameters announced by the Europe 2020 and here you stand for negative parameters for BAN appropriations, this, to put it mildly, is not a denial of policy. This is a segregational approach to science as a sectoral policy! Finally, Dear Minister, I think that you, the government, the minister of education and science, the budget subsidy or the research fund's appropriation should be taken into account! It is not the fault of the Bulgarian scientists, it is not the fault of the subjects of the Bulgarian science that is provided for in Budget 2015 for the Fund of Scientific Studies. And neither you nor your colleague, Minister of Education and Science, do I know why the Council of Ministers remains blind and deaf to the refusal of politics in this sector and is not seeking political responsibility, but is taking a criminal action through the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences! This thing is a demonstration of a forceful approach to science policy. I am not going to say that the rest of the talk to the government about education as a priority and about the increased increase in appropriations in the sector Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u118	Thank you, dear Professor. Georgieva. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose an end to the debate and a vote on the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u120	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We are talking here about genocide on science, and I see that there are colleagues who are not at all interested in science and knowledge. That's why I'm making a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u122	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 128 MPs: 96 against 28, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposals and on the main text. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov, Dimitar Tanev, Radan Kanev, Boyka Marinska and Nikola Hadzhiyski, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 56 against 20, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have failed to vote, I ask for a re-vote procedure. [[Radio, noise and lines from GERB.]] When you do not give the floor to talk, you will vote twice each text and so it will be to the end. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u124	Whoever has a problem with the console, come to us!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u125	Revoting procedure. Please vote. They voted 135 MPs: 55 against 32, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. We vote three identical proposals which are not supported by the Commission: the proposal of the MPs Borislav Velikov, Mariana Todorova, Milen Mihov, Kancho Filipov, Stanislav Stanilov; the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Petar Chobanov, Yordan Tsonev and Mariana Georgieva; as well as Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Turnovalyski, Dobrin Danev, Georgi Bozhanov, Atanas Zafirov, Mariana Boyadjieva. They voted 134 MPs: 54, against 40, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Genov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u126	Mr. Chairman, I ask you for a re-voting procedure, as Mrs. Bachvarova and I have not been able to exercise our right to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u127	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall! They voted 139 MPs: 57 against 50, abstentioned 32. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Petar Chobanov, Yordan Tsonev, Aliosman Imamov, Yanko Iankov, Ventsislav Kaimakanov, Hasan Ademov, Ayhan Etem, Shabanali Durmush, Jayhan Ibryamov, Hussein Hafuzov, Stanislav Anastasov, Mariana Georgieva, Kamen Kostadinov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Mehmed Ataman, Nevin Hasan, Saliha Emin, Ramadan Attalay, Mustafa Ahmed, Hamid Hamid, Devdet Chakarov, Aidoan Ali, Erdinch Hajrula, Mustafa Karaday, Rusha Risa and Durhan Mustafa. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 138 MPs: 47, against 48, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Come on in, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I ask for a re-vote with one famous proverb: No science, no success!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u129	Revoting procedure, please. Vote 138 MPs: 50, against 51, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 137 MPs: 41, against 58, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mirchev, for revoting, please. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u130	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I haven't been able to vote, so I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Revoting procedure, please. Vote 128 MPs: 40, against 63, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 16, which is supported by the Commission and found its place in its report. They voted 143 MPs: 110, 26, abstentioned 7. The text of the importer for art. 16 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u132	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u133	Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against it because I hoped that after quoting this proverb to you, you would reconsider your decision a little and support our proposal for more money for science, education, stimulating young scientists, to support the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Unfortunately, you have not listened to our constructive proposals and once again for Bulgarian science there will be a set aside scarce means with which it will only be able to continue to vegetate. In the context of increasing illiteracy among the population, in the context of a lack of any vision for the development of science, in the context of a lack of any prospect for young scientists to continue to work in Bulgaria at all and with these miserable salaries they receive at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I do not know what future we reserve for the young generation. If this way we continue to treat science in Bulgaria, we will really become a banana republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. There are no others. Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u136	Under art. 17 has a proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: Art. 17 (1) adopt the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2016 as follows: Point II is amended as follows: lv. At 164, 5,000. BGN Paragraph II DISCLOSURE, 1 is amended. Ongoing expenditures (of 134 863, 8 thousand) lv. At 159 663, 8 thousand. lv. Paragraph II DISCLOSURE, 1.1 "Personal" of 68 980.2 thousand is amended. lv. At 93,780.2 thousand. lv. Point III OF BUDGETARY IMPROVATIONS from 116 527, 5 to 141, 22.5 is amended. (Represented table.) The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following changes are made: 1. The following changes shall be made in para 1, Section II - Section II, the number..139 - row 2 the number - Section III, the number - Section III row 1 the number 2. In para 2 row 1, the number - 2 line...... 139 3. In para. H, row 1 the number..70 567.3..to be replaced by..80 567.3. 4. The creation of para. 4. In the capital expenditure referred to in paragraph 1 and in the expenditure relating to the "Policy in the field of the conservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage' respectively, 10 000 thousand are included. lv. to build and rehabilitate cultural infrastructure. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. In para. 1, II.Currently, to be amended as follows: the number 139 547.5 to become 147 447.5; - Current costs - the number 134 863.8 to be 142 763.8; 2. In para. 2: - T. 1 "The policy in the field of preservation of the movable and real estate cultural heritage...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - T. 2 "Policy in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education "The number 121 055.3 becomes 122 211.3 " The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1, row II.1 "Current expenditures" (ongoing expenditures) is replaced by "ongoing expenditures" (on 134 863.8) is replaced by "168 969,0 "ongoing costs" (ongoing costs). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Nayden Zelenogorski and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In para 1, Section II, - replace the number..139 547,5... with.147 - t.1 "Current costs', the number..134 863.8. to be replaced by.142 763.8. (b) In para. 2: - t.1 "Politicals in the field of protection of the movable and immovable cultural heritage', the number - Item 2 - Politics in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Petar Kadiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 Section II - the number..139 547,5.. is replaced by.140 - t.1.2.1 "Subsidies for non-financial corporations', the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u137	You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria is to increase the funds of the Ministry of Culture by 34 million. BGN, which includes increasing the uniform cost standard of the employees in libraries, museums and galleries in the country to 11 640 BGN. This means that all subsidized units of the Ministry of Culture, which are not only in the national cultural institutes, but also in all municipal museums, galleries and libraries, which in the system of museums and galleries are 1770 and of libraries - 1660, will be increased as a single cost standard of BGN 11 640. That's an increase of £1,200. to the current single cost standard. We believe that with this increase we will respond to the demands they made during the protests last week working in museums, galleries and libraries throughout the country. I believe that these demands are worthy of respect because, first of all, the protesters raised the question for the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of Bulgaria, and together with this for a worthy and worthy assessment of their work, because these are people who have an extremely high education and qualification. They know foreign languages and are constantly in a situation where they need to increase their knowledge and qualifications. Because the work in these cultural institutions of these people is constantly in touch with the people, in contact with the Bulgarian culture. They must respond to what we as citizens expect of them. I believe that what they put as a request to the Bulgarian National Assembly, to the government, was heard by the whole Bulgarian public. In addition, they raised an extremely important question that culture, the attitude towards Bulgarian spirituality should be outpartisan. In this sense, many proposals have been made today with regard to increasing the resources of the Ministry of Culture to meet these demands. I believe that the National Assembly can find a golden section so that we can respond to these demands. It is true that we need to make serious investments in the Bulgarian economy, for the state of the roads in the country, but together we need to point out today that only literate, only culturally elevated people can appreciate the quality of life of the Bulgarian nation, because only a spiritually elevated nation can make faithful strides in its further course of development. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] I allow myself, regardless of your lines, to remind you of the words of a respected parliamentarians and Bulgarian historian who he spoke during the protest of those working in museums, galleries and libraries. It's Professor. Andrej Pantev, who I suppose you all know very well. He said that the people who protested last week, Bulgarian cultural figures and specifically those employed in museums, galleries and libraries, were proudly patient as the Decabs in Siberia [[(shouts: ……]] Because they've been for a long time... Only you have to have knowledge to remember who the Decabs are. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] I think they have not put this question to the Bulgarian state for a long time. So today I think that we should not only show respect, but also understand and make such a change that will at least change the current situation in terms of paying these people, and all that needs to be done to preserve cultural heritage. And most importantly, if this really becomes a decision of the Bulgarian National Assembly, this money will actually reach the people in the Bulgarian municipalities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u139	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Petar Kadiev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that from what I see in this budget here, it is a competition which is more important and most important. I'll get to the story right away: is the cobbler more important or the tailor? I think they're all important. I understand very well that at the moment the budget is what it is made with the corresponding estimates of what has entered into as revenue. I understand very well every one of those who want something to happen in this budget. I know that this year the Ministry of Culture has given 10 million to libraries, galleries, for absolutely all artists of culture, theaters, filmmakers. Yeah, well, the money really went up by 10 million this year, but what's not enough? There is nothing that I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that you will be absolutely empathetic about. These are the Chitalishte figures who create the Chitalishte activities or the first libraries. Note that the library fund of Chitalishte activists is ten times the size of all the other libraries that have been melted, they are currently simply neglected. A small consideration of the 1 million demands. 200,000 that the specialists made. Within a million and two hundred thousand we will respond to all Chitalishte libraries, which will have to receive that small percentage to move to the minimum wage. That's what this is about. So I ask you all to support him, because I am absolutely convinced, and yet I say, there is no person who is not empathetic to the Chitalishte activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u141	Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u142	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! I take the floor for a procedure to address to you, Madam President, that we are still looking at the budget for the next year of the Republic of Bulgaria. I ask the Minister to be careful here and not to sign his mail. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] If you have a job, go to the Ministry and do your job there. [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] My procedure is, Madam President... [[Reply.]] Absolutely you can! His is disrespect for the National Assembly. If he's got a job, he doesn't take credit for it anyway, he can go back to the Ministry. My procedure is to make a remark to the Minister not to perform his duties here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u143	That's a shame.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u144	It's no shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u145	Mr. Georgiev, every minister, no matter where he is, is a minister and when there are urgent things to move, he is obliged to do so. [[Mister Vladislav Goranov is leaving the Chamber.]] To speak, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u146	Thank you, Madam President. The opposition kicked out the minister, but that's what's happening. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Iskren Veselinov and the other colleagues, the importers of our proposal. First, I will say that we withdraw this proposal and we will motivate ourselves why. This proposal was dictated by the alarming situation in the cultural institutions in Bulgaria "Museums," libraries, galleries and other artistic and creative institutions. It was literally dictated by the demands of the two unions, which, I recall, are approaching the rounded sum of 24.8 million. lv. In talks and debates with our colleagues from GERB we achieved and yesterday the parliament voted an increase of 10 million, I recall, in art. 1 para. 2. Pay attention to the 10 million only for the remuneration of those working in this field. By not representative but approximate estimates, this will enable a good increase in the remuneration of these specialists between 25 and 30%. We believe that the budget opportunities of the country today allow such a good deed, and therefore we withdraw our proposal in this part of it, to this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u147	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. [[National representatives of BSP LB have difficulty with the vote.]] Did everyone get a vote? Mrs. Ninova, did you vote? They voted 118 MPs: 35 against 42, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Ms Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs - the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 112 MPs: 30, against 24, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u148	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is asking for a re-vote because I couldn't vote. Madam President, I note that today... [[The President turns off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u149	Thank you. I understand the procedure. Revoting, coworkers. We are revising the proposal of Ms. Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. They voted 115 MPs: 29, against 31, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Bajraktarov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u150	Madam President, it is obvious for two and a half hours now that BSP colleagues are having a hard time coping with the vote, which I am asking you and I urge you to direct a resource assistant to BSP colleagues [[crowd cheering, applause]] to help them deal with the vote. At the very least, it's inhuman when we see the pain of colleagues struggling like this, even though there are so many doppelgangers among them, professors, doctors. It is obvious that a resourceful helper is needed to assist them. I really insist because otherwise we are wasting valuable parliamentary time and, I stress, the funds of the Bulgarian taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u151	I share your concerns, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u152	Let me just get this straight. Since the same BSP colleagues had serious remarks to Mr. Finance Minister a moment ago, please ask him to sit down. [[Mister Vladislav Goranov spoke with MPs from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u153	Mr. Bayraktarov, your remarks are justified. In the break I will personally engage in training actions with regard to the BSP group [[crowd cheering, applause]] After which, Mr. Goranov, I beg you very much, Mr. Minister, not to disturb the order of this House. You've been summoned to this. Mr. Minister, take your place. [[National Representative Atanas Merdjanov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] I'll give you the floor. Mr. Merdjanov, you have the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and I address you with a sharp remark, Madam President, because you tolerate speeches from a fellow member of the Patriotic Front who rudely interfere with the discussion. If anyone is not discussing these important issues for the public and the state, let him leave as some ministers did in the Chamber. It was not a coincidence that the procedure was called upon by colleague Georgiev because if the finance minister did not take the attitude and explained why it was for the financial minister, why is it against the proposed proposals, who else would do it? Apparently, the Prime Minister won't be in the Chamber. Please do not tolerate this kind of speech, such a kind of parliamentary appearances, because my colleague against me in the same way intervenes and ends the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u155	Who, who? Just tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u156	Dear Mr. Merdjanov, I don't tolerate it. On the contrary, I am trying, with the possibilities of the Rules, to have a normal debate and order in this Chamber. However, when there is abuse of rights and procedures at their disposal, certainly the MPs, there is no way I can react but with patience. If you know another way, give me a hint. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 30, against 64, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 36, against 25, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Petar Kadiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 30, against 40, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 17 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 99, against 22, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Holiday till 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u157	Honourable Members, the sitting is continuing. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u158	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1, Section II Costs and Section III Budgetary Relations (transfers) shall be made as follows: - Section II, the number..44 481.9..to be replaced by the number....124 481.9.. - Section II row 2. the number - Section III, the number - Section III row 1. the number..19 031,9..to be replaced by the number....99 031,9.. 2. In para. 2 row 1. the number - line 3. In para. 3 row 1. the number..18 963,8..to be replaced by the number....98 963,8.. 4. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, the costs of the "Policy in the field of the protection and use of the components of the environment' include 50,000 thousand. lv. for the construction of treatment plants and sewerage in agglomerations with living equivalents from 2000 to 10000 which cannot be spent for other purposes. (5) In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, the costs of the "Policy in the field of the protection and use of the components of the environment' are included 30 000 thousand. lv. to strengthen river shores which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u159	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, Dear Minister! We are making this proposal not because it is a whim, but on the contrary, because it is an extreme necessity. We all know very well that Directive 91/271 on waste water treatment plants in settlements for more than 2000 inhabitants equivalents, naturally, continues to apply, and in the new Operational Programme Colleagues, although these 50 million are extremely insufficient to fulfil all the commitments, this is still an important signal to the European Commission that we are continuing to work on this directive. We draw attention to the following small fact. Out of 364 agglomerations with more than 2000 living equivalents, 256, two thirds, are between two and ten things that are not financed either by the Rural Development Programme, as it covers only 2000 resident equivalents, nor by the And although the old Operational Program is implemented 24 and we expect another 38 to be completed by the end of the year, this makes it a fulfillment of less than a quarter of the commitment to these settlements. Therefore, I call on you, so that we do not engage in any more criminal proceedings, do not give yourselves God. I do not wish this, to predict at least 50 million so that we can continue the work in the settlements between 2 and 10 thousand equivalents in the agglomerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u161	- What's the line? To speak, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u162	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! We representatives of BSP left Bulgaria do not support this budget and this is understandable. Why? Because this is another budget of a right-wing majority, which is antisocial, confused, formal. He's some kind of articulation of numbers, no philosophy or priorities. Whatever negative assessment we give him will be correct. This budget does not provide for the development of anything, nor of the economy...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u163	This is a statement for the first vote, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u164	Yeah, I'll tell you why I'm making those grades. It doesn't make any progress on the condition that we get 16 billion. And what do you spend that money on, no one understands? [[GERB lines.]] Specially for the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. The formality of the state budget that you are predicting for next year is particularly clear in terms of the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. I put aside the question that this policy is also seen as a stepchild of the state. It is clear that the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water does not provide for the development of environmental policy. What does this budget provide compared to this year's budget? Notice something curious. Revenue, aid and donations, including revenue from state fees, are raised by 3 million. 100,000, notice, 42 million. 430,000. Fourteen, fifteen times an increase in government fees. Colleagues, who's going to pay these government fees?! How do you get such a sudden raise in revenue? I am not opposed to increasing the budget of the Ministry, but do we have on the other items the corresponding increase in expenditure for the relevant policies? We don't. That is why I say that this budget is formal, non-executable and I allow myself to make the following editorial proposals that are in the direction of the following Could it have the same capital costs? It's obvious he can't. I am somewhat familiar with the state of the building fund, the need for capital expenditure in the Ministry, and I believe that it is imperative that these costs be increased. Secondly, I also propose that we increase environmental protection policies by about 7 to 8%, particularly environmental protection policies, something similar that the previous one suggested. That's why I'm making this editorial proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u165	There are no editorial proposals under the State Budget Act unless you have seen a spelling or technical error in the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u166	Well, then I won't speak. I'll just say this...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u167	Seven, eight percent, you didn't make a written proposal between first and second readings...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u168	You're taking away my rule of law, it's your problem. I'll just say this: this budget is formal, unfulfilled, with wrong parameters, if you want to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u169	Mr. Chobanov speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u170	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I am really surprised that no proposals have been made by the other parliamentary groups regarding environmental and water policy. This is an important policy and I think the lack of funds is clear. Of course, within and within the limits of a budget there is no way to resolve all these issues. We have therefore allowed ourselves to make two concrete proposals, one of which has been justified by my colleague, the other is from the series of proposals that we are making in the area of prevention, that is, to allocate costs that will be much less if they are now spent than if God does not give, these risks are realised and we must fight the consequences of them. That is why we have made this proposal. Otherwise, the budget itself of the Ministry of Environment and Water continues to be tightened budget one of the smallest budgets. They manage a large operational programme with a relatively small budget, but we still need to think about national environmental policies as well, as we know that the point of European funds is to complement national policy. In this regard, our proposal for the treatment plants in agglomerations from 2 to 10 thousand is precisely with such an announcement to think about national policies. I hope that this will happen in the course of the budget implementation. We will monitor with my colleagues how things are moving on our proposals and hope that really the negative effects will not materialise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 25, against 40, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 18 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 92, against 21, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u172	Under art. 19 the following changes are made: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19 the following changes are made: 1 C. 1, Section.II The expenditure and Section.III Budget Relations. The following changes shall be made: - Section II, the number - Section II row 2 the number - Section III, the number..48 - Section III row 1. the number 2. In para 2 row 1. the number - the number of the number of.71 864.4. to be replaced by.91 864.4. 3. In para. Z row 1. the number.45 868.4. to be replaced by.65 868.4. 4. The creation of para. 4. The capital expenditure under para.1 and, respectively, the cost of the "Sustainable Economic Development and Competitiveness Policy' are included in the cost of "Sustainable Economic Development and Competitiveness'. lv. for the construction of infrastructure to support innovations which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u173	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! This is our proposal from the series of proposals that affect innovation and scientific infrastructure. Unfortunately, the scientific ones have been rejected. You know that innovation is a very important part of an economic development and a country that is scarce in resources can count on taking a step forward in its development if it leans back and manages to implement an innovative policy. Unfortunately, in the debates on the first reading of the budget, it did not become clear the Innovation Fund will work next year, will it be a separate resource for it and how much it will be. Here we propose the construction of such an innovative infrastructure. The idea is also to contribute to additionality between national and European policies, which is the basis and fundamental principle in the process of absorption of European funds. Unfortunately, on many of our policies it is missing. So that's our appeal. Support the proposal and perhaps think about the global idea of finally bringing together the Fund of Science and the Fund of Innovations, to become a real mediator between business and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u175	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 112 MPs: 36, against 28, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 19 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 97, against 18, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u176	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking this opportunity that we're in art. Art. 20, art. 24 concerns the budget of the Ministry of Transport, to invite or to call, I do not know what, the Minister of Finance, because he twice refuses to come to the Transport Commission, and the questions he needs to hear concern him entirely. Therefore, I ask you to call him to come to the Chamber during the discussion of art. 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u177	Mr. Goranov is in the National Assembly, especially for art. 24 will be in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u178	There is a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) adopt the budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2016 as follows: (according to attached table). (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (according to attached table). (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2016 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2016 by the Ministry of Energy as follows: (according to attached table). (4) The Council of Ministers may make changes to the budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2016 in case of an additional need to carry out expenditure related to the specifics of the Fund. (5) Confirms targeted capital expenditure total of 72 239 thousand BGN under the Ordinance on the Organization and Control of the Implementation of the National Investment Plan 2013 (Obn, D.V., No. ...), which cannot be spent for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u179	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to express my amazement at the proposal, which makes the Commission. So far, a number of proposals have also taken place in the social sphere. You remember here, we also watched child care benefits from one to two years...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u181	Tell me everything we've seen so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u182	Yes, I will tell them because these things have not been supported and I see at the moment that we are being offered an adjustment with an increase of over 300,000 s of running costs and staff costs of the Ministry of Energy. All other issues have been rejected by the House and the only correction we are making is to increase the budget of the Ministry of Energy. However, colleagues, I would like to remind you that here in this House, we have been doing a special discussion on energy issues. Here, in this House, the ruling majority has proposed urgent legislative measures. Here, in this room, you suggested that we pull by one month to postpone the entry of the new regulatory price period and prices. I just want to remind you of one argument of all the arguments then to do this. They were different legislative changes in the laws, waiting for coordination with a regulation with the European Commission, some checks that AFFI had to do, but one argument was that the Ministry of Energy would make a policy that would reduce the costs in the sector and Minister Petkova, which I do not see here, then said that its goal would be a 10% cut in administrative expenditure in the sector. What do we see now with the 2016 budget? Not only is there no sign of what has been promised, but the only ministry to which you raise the costs of ongoing alimony and personnel is the Ministry of Energy. Only two or three months ago here, from this tribune, Minister Petkova said the administrative costs in the energy sector would be cut. And a lot of people were coming out and giving all sorts of arguments here that we should support the delay and the policy that the Ministry of Energy is leading. Here, you see this policy, the only ministry that increases its costs. Therefore, personally, I and my colleagues from BSP will not support the budget offered to us for the Ministry of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u183	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote art. 20 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 117 MPs: 93, against 20, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u184	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u185	We vote. Vote 110 MPs: 94 against 14, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u186	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u187	Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. I propose a procedure for extending working hours until the closure and voting of the budget texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u189	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting for the proposal to extend the plenary session until the final adoption of the Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. Vote 119 MPs: 103, against 10, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u190	Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following changes shall be made: "1." In para. 1, Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships" (transfers) are made the following changes: - Section II, the number..326 564,5... 436 - Section II, row 2, the number..129 - Section III, the number - Section III row 1. the number..93 375,0. to be replaced by.203 2. In para. 2 row 2. replace the number "supplier 285 851,3" by the number "supplier 395 851,3"; - line 3. In para. Row 1. the number "six hundred sixty-six eighty-one four' shall be replaced by 4. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: In the capital expenditure under para.1 and, respectively, in the expenditure for the "Politicals for maintenance, modernisation and construction of technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources and geodefense', the "Rehabilitation and construction of road infrastructure' budget programme are included 30 000 thousand thousand. lv. to repair and rehabilitate tunnels which cannot be spent for other purposes. (5) In the capital expenditure under para.1 and, respectively, in the expenditure for the "Politicals for maintenance, modernization and construction of technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources and geodeficit', the budget programme "Design planning, geoprotection, public works, supply and sewerage' include 50,000 thousand. lv. for infrastructure to provide and diversify drinking water sources which cannot be spent for other purposes. (6) In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, the costs of the "Policy to maintain, modernise and build the technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources and geodefense" include 30 000 thousand. lv. to prevent and address the effects of landslides which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u191	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At your attention we have offered three, we can call them capital programs that are related to important, in our opinion, problems. I am sure that they are important in general and are recognized greatly by the government as well. The first proposal is related to the repair and rehabilitation of tunnels. You know that at a meeting of the Council of Ministers we have also witnessed from the transcripts that this issue has been discussed. I'm sure he'll be paid attention next year, but since we don't see him signed, we've taken the liberty of offering 30 million to that end, which will probably not be enough, but it's still a good start. The next program we offer is related to providing and diversifying drinking water sources. You know that there are settlements where either water quality is not at the necessary level and standards, but there is an opportunity to be improved, or are still forced to fight waterlessness. And by sharpening the attention on this problem, we will expect concrete steps next year in this direction. As we have said on several occasions so far, we are proposing a programme related to prevention and tackling the effects of landslides, focusing on prevention. I repeat, this could be much cheaper than if the risk is materialised and we have to deal with the consequences of such adverse events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u193	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 124 MPs: 23, against 40, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u194	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u195	Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a procedure for naming inspection and verification of the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u197	Please, the list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is off. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Additionally recorded after calling them alphabetically: Boris Stanimirov, Borislav Velikov, Georgi Andonov, Georgi Kovachev, Borislav Milanov, Diana Yordanova, Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Boychev, Boris Yachev, Delyan Dobrev, Dimitar Shishkov and Zhelyo Boychev. There is a quorum. Let's move on. I shall put to the vote art. 22 by importer supported by the Commission. We vote. 100 MPs voted: 86 against 8, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u198	Under art. 23 The proposal of the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following changes shall be made: 1. In para. 1, Section II Costs and Section III Budgetary Relations (transfers) shall be made as follows: - Section II, the number - Section II row 2 the number - Section III, the number - Section III row 1 the number 2. In para. 2 row 1 the number - line 3. In para. Z row 1 the number "synchronous" 108 544.4 "synchronous" to be replaced by "synchronous" with "synchronous" is replaced by "synchronous" is replaced by "synchronous" and 4. The creation of para. 5. In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, the costs of the "Agriculture and rural policy' are included 50,000. lv. for the construction and restoration of irrigation facilities which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Mihail Mikov and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - in row 1 "Current costs' the number 238 651,2 " is replaced by - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States shall be replaced by the number of the Member States which are not members of the European Union and shall be - of order.......................................................................................... staff with no delegated budgets and the number of staff with no delegated budgets is replaced by the number of staff with the number of staff with the number of staff (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships": - in line III. The budget relationship is replaced by the number..86 - in row III.1. The reference budget for the budget is the number "87 487,9' is replaced by "96 112,9'. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Agriculture and rural policy" (the number "199 415.2") is replaced by "206 410.2" (the figure is replaced by "Agriculture and rural policy"). b) in row 2. "Fishing and aquaculture policy' is replaced by "Fishing and aquaculture policy' by "Fishing and aquaculture policy' and "Fishing and aquaculture policy' is replaced by "Fishing and aquaculture policy'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - on line one. The number 238 651,2 is replaced by - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the number of the Member States of the European Union (hereinafter referred to - of Staff with no delegated budgets and the number 103 050s shall be replaced by (b) in Section III. The number of.86 908, 2s is replaced by.95 533,2s. - on line one. The reference budget for the budget is the number "87 487,9' is replaced by "96 112,9'. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Agriculture and rural policy" (the number "199 415.2") is replaced by "206 410.2" (the number "Agriculture and rural policy"); b) in row 2. "Fishing and aquaculture policy' is replaced by "Fishing and aquaculture policy' by "Fishing and aquaculture policy' and "Fishing and aquaculture policy' is replaced by "Fishing and aquaculture policy'. c) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) Accepts the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2016 as follows: (according to attached table) (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (according to attached table) (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2016 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2016 by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as follows: (according to attached table) (4) Confirms funds of 15 000 thousand. lv. for the provision of a public service to protect against the harmful effects of the waters entrusted to the Irrigation Systems (IEDs) which are within the current costs under para. 1 and cannot be redirected for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u199	Statements? Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What is impressive in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is that the budget for Irritative Systems is clearly highlighted, amounting to 15 million, which is a good step, as I remember previous periods in which this service was deprived of funding at all, which led to the accumulation of liabilities, but gradually this process is cleared and we see that they already have a specific amount. What we are proposing is also related to "Irrigation systems" related to the possibility of building and restoring irrigation facilities, which is an activity that has been neglected and has been made a very serious retreat for a number of years. As far as I know, the Rural Development Programme provides funds for this, but, as we have said more than once, it is good that European policy should be complementary to national policy, i.e. to allocate national resources in this very important direction, which we have been proud of in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! Our proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is the increase of the budget by 8 million, and the reason for that is our desire to first have a correction in the Fund, which is 103 million in a row year for those who are not on a delegated budget. This creates extremely many problems because you know that some of the agencies have some of the lowest levels of salary, starting with the Agricultural Academy, the Food Safety Agency. I see that in the GERB colleagues' proposal there is a correction made at the expense of the current maintenance, however, to increase the fund "Work pay" and to some extent compensate for this lag in pay, especially to executive agencies. However, the serious question remains: whether the Ministry of Agriculture will be able to fit into this current maintenance, for the simple reason that, as far as I can see, the budget of the Ministry has been adjusted several times in 2015, mainly because of public procurement or unforeseen expenditure of the Food Safety Agency. Now I see the Food Agency is announcing a huge public procurement. Will the Ministry, however, with this budget, with the reduced maintenance, be able to enter into the requirement to implement the budget? The other thing that makes an impression in the budget, and we propose an increase in fisheries and aquaculture policy is very interesting for me to hear what the explanation is: how about this policy through 2015 was at 6 million and 300,000, and now it's down to 4 million and 600. The fisheries and aquaculture policy is to start the programme next year. The readings that are done with this reduction, what do they mean: that it will not start the program or it will start relatively later and there is no need for alimony? That is why our proposal relates at least to the return of the levels that were in Budget 2015. I believe that if there are these adjustments, the Ministry will be able to cope within the year and without difficulty fulfilling its huge commitments relating to the European funds and their absorption, and also with the control functions assigned to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u203	Thank you, my dear. Prof. Bachvarova. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 18, against 33, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 21, against 53, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 20, against 51, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of the importer, who, after support and editing of the Commission, finds a place as art. 23 in her report. Vote art. 23 on the Commission report. Vote 110 MPs: 90 against 14, abstention 6. Article 23 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u204	Article 24. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Petar Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1, Section II The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 t. 1.2.1. and 1.2.1.1. are amended as follows: "1.2.1." The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 1.2.1.1. Subsidies for the BDZ "S' Ltd. the number "175 000' is replaced by "180 000'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u205	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u206	Honourable Members, on behalf of the Group of the Patriotic Front, I am proposing a modest increase in the subsidy of BDZ. Many of you may remember that at the beginning of last year we saw serious disruptions in rail transport, serious public discontent, as a result of which the Committee on Transport of the National Assembly adopted a decision engaging the Ministry of Transport in the preparation of a Strategy for the Development of Railways in Bulgaria. The strategy at the Ministry of Transport level has been drafted, has been discussed in the Commission, unfortunately, so far it does not have its financial commitment as firm commitments from the state budget. Speaking of the future of transport, in particular of the railway, we cannot fail to predict the necessary financial resources, which in this case is extremely modest. It concerns, above all, the fact that the subsidy was reduced compared to last year with that 5 million. lv. and, in practice, does not allow the BDZS to fulfil its commitments to the social partners for staff remunerations related to an increase in the minimum wage, as well as to inflation processes. My appeal to you is to support this minimal increase in the subsidy of the BDZ-Securities, as there must be a clear sign from the parliament that it holds on to this type of transport and will continue to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u207	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Next to speak is Assoc. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my proposal, unlike almost everyone who wanted millions, concerns a claim for thousands. It is said that in the transport budget there is no lev allocated to the Executive Agency "Maritime Administration." It is the maritime administration that must take all the risks that occur at sea near our coast and with our ships. In the context of global uncertainty, there is still no attack on a ship, but this is not excluded, so my request is to support one, albeit a minimum, feather that serves the Sea Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Georgi Svilenski for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u210	Svilenski has no proposal! You don't have a suggestion, what are you gonna talk about? [[Calls MP Georgi Svilenski.]] How are you gonna make a statement if you don't have a proposal? Based on what?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u211	You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky. [[Replications between the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u212	Mr. Chairman, first of all, please make a remark to Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. I think that every MP has the right to speak out of this tribune, whether he made a proposal or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u213	You have the floor to justify the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u214	My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to thank Mr. Goranov for finding the courage to come to this article's discussion... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u215	Quiet and order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u216	...in which we talk about the future of transport, about the Ministry of Transport, in particular about Bulgarian State Railways. Mr. Goranov, I'm addressing you and Mr. Moskovski as you returned from China a few days ago. I was very happy to see you and the Prime Minister riding on the new trains of the Chinese Republic. I thought that by coming to Bulgaria, you would bring this happy news to the Bulgarian railways, just by accepting some of the options for the recovery of the Bulgarian State Railways. Unfortunately, the proposed concept does not find support in your Ministry without motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u217	Mr. Svilensky, which proposal are you speaking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u218	On the proposal for the Ministry of Transport in the part of BDZ Subsidy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u219	There are two proposals of Petar Kadiev and Georgi Kuchukov, and Iskren Veselinov and group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u220	Doesn't the Commission have a proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u221	The importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u222	Yeah, the importer. I'm talking about the importer's proposal. Dear colleagues, last year at exactly this time when we were looking at the budget, we had it exactly the same. We accepted it all, you accepted it all together, and a consequence of this budget, January, 180 trains were stopped. Everyone went out on the street and passengers and railway workers, as a result of which you were forced to change the subsidy to the BDZ Travel Service. Mr. Minister, the Transport Commission unanimously stood behind the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport and we were willing to do anything to make sure that the Bulgarian State Railways had a future, be provided financially, no matter what money you would offer. Unfortunately, your Ministry doesn't understand this thing. You not only do not want to participate in the Transport Committee, you do not agree, you do not motivate your refusal for why you do not want to support any of the three business projects of the Ministry of Transport. We come to the fact that, to date, we have again the same proposal for a grant of 175 million without any vision for the development of the railways. On the contrary, perhaps you will again propose stopping trains, perhaps again offering closure of stations? In this regard, I would like to address to you what you propose to give to Sofia Airport concession and with the money you will pour them into the Bulgarian State Railways... Stop deceiving the Bulgarian society, both employees of Sofia Airport and all Bulgarian citizens! You can't do that! If you want to give 600 million, give it out of the budget! Then collect them wherever you want. However, you cannot hostage one company of the other company. Mr. Minister, 600 million of concessions are the money that must go to the Silver Fund and they are not the money of the Ministry of Transport. Whoever told you that understanding with the Minister of Transport, that money can be transferred internally, sectorally, deeply wrong. This money belongs to Bulgarian citizens and they should go to the Silver Fund. You have no right to do so unless you want to follow the fate of Minister Djankov, who stole a billion and five hundred from the Health Insurance Fund. Don't do it, I advise you! Find other ways! Don't make BDZ hostage at Sofia Airport! Make sure that the funds for the recovery of Bulgarian State Railways are put in the budget. Our proposal is in the next article. 49 There we will do it to raise the amounts for the purchase of new trains. My request is indeed to you: sit down with the Minister of Transport, I see that he has moved one, two rows ahead, there is a chance to talk and probably, and think about the future of Bulgarian State Railways! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u223	To speak the word has Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief and pragmatic. The proposal we are making from the Patriot Front Group to increase spending by 5 million. lv. In BDZ, we realize that it is extremely insufficient as a sum and as a number. But we are not just making a proposal to increase the cost. We have made an offer to make up for the 5 million, that is, not to overcharge the budget. In this direction we have made an offer in art. 63 of the State Budget Act, by which we want to reduce the party subsidy so that we can ensure that these funds through it, most of the parties give up the benefits paid by the Bulgarian people. At the same time, we hear criticism from colleagues about the Ministry of Environment and Water. I can, but I will not do it now, in order not to waste time, to give you estimates, if we stimulate the movement of rail passengers, as is done in all developed and advanced countries, and we must encourage this direction and this initiative, the state will save a lot more, a lot of costs only from the point of view of maintaining the country's system of times. As you can see, this is not a populist proposal, it is also supported by the source of the funds. I call on you to support this proposal of ours! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u225	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure to end the debate and vote on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u227	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Stanislav Ivanov to end the debates. Vote 104 MPs: 91, Against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We have closed the debate since the adoption of this proposal. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Petar Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 37 against 15, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Veselinov, Bajraktarov, Atanasov and Kasabov, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 16 against 21, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 24, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 90, against 10, abstention 4. Article 24 has been accepted. Negative vote "The People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u228	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I voted against it because by supporting and validating the budget of the Ministry of Transport, we have basically also decided the future of Sofia airport. I, Minister Goranov, have also asked this question in the Commission. I know that you will answer the one-time concession fee for 35 years to be paid at the time of the transfer of the airport to the future concessionaire, which is neutral to the budget balance and even if it does not happen within the next year, it does not jeopardise the revenue portion of the budget, but hence the deficit. I would like to say to you, colleagues, that, in essence, by accepting this approach of concessionation at Sofia airport, knowing that the future concessionaire must pay 600 million, knowing that we are condemned there, there is still about a hundred million to pay, knowing that there will be a requirement for the future concessionaire to make an investment, I would like to tell you that you have very narrowed down the possible participants to the procedure that, according to the budget's explanatory statement, you claim to be in an advanced phase of preparation. I have great doubts that this whole procedure is being prepared for one concessionaire and this concessionaire is from a southern country of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u229	They can't be two.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u230	He's preparing specifically for one, yes, there can't be two, Mr. Ivanov. That is why I voted against. I want to say it from this tribune, because we're going to keep a close eye on this. The noble pretext that this will be used for capital expenditure to solve the severe problems of BDZ, in essence, seems to me that we will significantly undermine the national interest. Not to mention losing that money to the Silver Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u231	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Let's continue with art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u232	Under art. 25 has a proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1, Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships" the following changes shall be made: - Section II, the number - Section II, row 2, the number "supplier 2 500,0" is replaced by the number "supplier 2 500,0" is replaced by the number "supplier 2 500,0" is replaced by the number "supplier 2 500,0" is replaced by the - Section III, the number..44 511,2.. to be replaced by the number.74 - Section III row 1 the number 2. In para. 2 row 1 the number "synchronous' is replaced by the number "synchronous' and "synchronous' are replaced by the number "synchronous'. - line 3. In para. In row 1, the number..61 839,6................................................................................................................................................ 4. The creation of para. 4. In the capital expenditure under para.1 and respectively the costs for "Policy in the field of sport for students and sports in leisure time" are included 30 000 thousand. lv. to build and rehabilitate a mass sport infrastructure which cannot be spent for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u233	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u234	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal concerns a very important priority for the sport of education. We are witnessing how sports facilities are built, which we can rather count in the category of elite sports, as well as the construction of stadiums in small settlements that are quite expensive and quite difficult to maintain. What we are proposing is the opposite or rather complements the policy, which is also important for the sport. The Programme itself and the budget policy itself calls it a "Sport in leisure time" and a "Sport for students" policy. We need to pay particular attention to these two directions and enable both learners and people in their free time to have a place to sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 7, against 21, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 25, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 72 against 6, abstention 4. Article 25 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u236	Under art. 26 has a proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 1: - in Section II - in Section II, section II, section II, section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, Section II, - in Section II, t. 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the number of the Member States of the European Union (hereinafter - in Section III, the number..97 124,0. is replaced by.107 - in Section III, t. 1 the number "seven hundred and fifty-three, nine is replaced by one hundred and fifty-one and fifty-three, nine is replaced by one. (b) in para. 2 all over the number..97 324,0.. is replaced by.107 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) item II "Costs' is replaced by "Costs' by "Costs'; - in t. 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Current expenditures' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditure' and "Current expenditure' is replaced by "Current expenditure'. - in t. 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States shall be replaced by the number of the Member States which are not members of the European Union and shall be (b) t. III - in t. 1 "Budgets' with the central budget. The number " "97 153,9' is replaced by "99 653,9'. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 "Policy in the field of protection of national security" (the number "97 324,0") is replaced by "99 824.0" (the number "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the b) of line The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 the following changes shall be made: 1. The following changes are made in para 1, Section II - Section II, the number..97 324,0.. to be replaced by the number..137 - Section II row 2. the number - Section III, the number..97 124,0 "to be replaced by the number..137 - Section III row 1 the number..97 153,9......................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 line 1. the number..97 - the number of the number of the number of the numbers of the numbers of the digits of the digits of the digits of the codes of the codes of the codes of the codes of the codes of the codes of the codes 3. In para.Z, row one, the number s 12,374,0s to be replaced by the number s 52,374,0s. 4. The creation of para. 4. In the capital expenditure under para. 1 and, respectively, national security policy expenditure is included 40,000. lv. to strengthen security and anti-terrorism. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, Section II The following amendments shall be made: 1. in line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. in line 1. The number of the current costs and the number of the current expenditures is replaced by the number of the current expenditures and is replaced by the number of the current expenditures, which is replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, II, - the number - in t. 1. 1. The number of "83 310,5" is replaced by "87 300,5" The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u237	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! The proposed budget of the State Agency "National Security" does not really have priorities and programmes that are financially supported. It is generally stated that a strategic policy objective in the field of national security protection is the effective protection of national security. Once again, the Law has been quoted as well as in art. 12 of the Ministry of Interior Act, but the security environment imposes specific budget objectives, honourable Members. Isn't terrorism prevention a priority? Information provision and analysis of the problem of the refugee wave shouldn't it be a priority? Why wasn't it taken as a top priority to protect against invading, creating a threat to the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the state and unity of the nation? Of course, it's written down as one of many. Is it hoped that the budget of the Ministry of Interior is financially secure with the production of 560 analytical documents? I remind you that there are no priorities in the budget of the Ministry of Interior either. As an institution, the State Agency of National Security has a task of monitoring and impacting corruption in the higher levels of state power. In this term, is it not your priority? Let's see, honourable colleagues from GERB, as governors and all the parties that support this government, are you consistent? When voting on Budget 2015 the forecast for 2016 is for the budget of the State Agency of 107 924 thousand. lv. Now you're offering 97 300,000. Why? You think there's a time of peace and security ahead, so you're offering a reduced budget to the State Agency?! Careful reading of the Annex to the 2016 Budget of the State Agency of National Security and the National Security Budget Programme for the implementation of the target value indicator 3. Information to Bulgarian special law enforcement structures is increased compared to 2015 from 1250 pieces to 2000 pieces. That is, you predict that the employees at the SANS will work more, collect more information to provide. The information to foreign, special and law-enforcement structures is expected to be 14 thousand colleagues for 2015 from 1500 in the current year. The State Agency will generate information that will provide foreign partner services and structures with a reduced budget at every eighth minute. Countering cross-border crime, measures for refugee pressure, prevention of terrorism threats and other tasks related to national security and ensuring the peace of Bulgarian citizens should be a priority. Honourable Members, providing such a large amount of information to our services and the Ministry of Interior, leads to the logic that partner services will be relied on mostly. Is that what you plan for the DANS? To be a data gathering unit and to wait for a prescription from abroad. Dear colleagues, I pay attention to you, during the current year at the same time it is intended to implement 2850 special intelligence means. For next year, given the environment in which security services will have to work, they are reduced to 1200. Why? We have a year ahead of us in which the calm of Bulgarian citizens is guaranteed?! Not providing security money suggests that you are not thinking about the peace of the people. You don't think about securing the work of the employees in the sector. You want Bulgaria to depend on belonging to a pact, coalition, or developed countries. BSP opposes a reduction in the budget of the SANS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u239	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. The People's Representative Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Yankov, you've done a serious examination and analysis, but he... [[GERB lines.]] Wait, you want the first word to be replicating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u241	Please don't call from the gym! Mr. Bojinov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u242	In the middle of the sentence, I put the word out. Listen to the butt before you replicate me. But when your analysis was on the axis of planning, activities and planned funds, I believe that you are making a serious error. In addition to planned information units to each other in these important directions for which the SANS was created, the political assessment and the political decision on how much money should be on the axis of funds and resources. Because when there are no results in countering, for example, corruption in the highest levels of power, the events can be implemented, but when they do not bring the results, they do not justify the means. I would therefore like you to deepen in this direction: if anyone is interfering with people by not giving the financial resources, or for other reasons in the case of provided funds, there is no result for which it was created. That's my line. Satisfied there from the corner.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u243	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Iankov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, I noted that unlike Borisov's mandate in his first cabinet 2009 - 2013, in which exactly the fight against corruption was taken out, now in this term Borisov, because this is done with the signature of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, is not such a priority. Because the formula itself, at least, is supposed to be, of government, of power consumption is different with coalition partners. And here it is explained to us, and through us and the Bulgarian citizens that someone is hindering and that there is no law and the legislator has provided for the institutions to fight, but this is not a priority. I draw your attention to the fact that it is nevertheless written in the text that we are being offered, as an explanation to the figures in the budget, that the..... takes into account the existence of supporting factors in planning its activities................................................................................. But it's only written down. You understand what the situation is.. shows self-confidence, self-confidence in an environment in which we are about to find all Bulgarian citizens suffering from inaction, and perhaps to a large extent the criminal inaction of institutions who are clothed with power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u245	To speak, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Debating art. 26, which deals with the budget of the State Agency of National Security (DANS), we are practically talking general about national security as a whole in Bulgaria and what level it is at. Punctually, in this regard, we should draw the following two directions. First, a modern reading and analysis of the topic of Security must be done. Secondly, we should bring out the main priorities and threats to national security, namely terrorism and the threat of a refugee wave. We believe that terrorism is an asymmetrical threat that none of the specialized services in the world are able to provide 100% protection. It is for this reason that, in the course of the discussions between the first and second reading of the budget for 2016, we at the ABB (ABB) have had the opportunity to hold a number of meetings with the management of the State Agency (National Security) and to take particular account, I stress, in particular, of the financial needs of the Agency. We offer to your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a draft budget increase for the State Agency of National Security (National Security) by 4 million for 2016. We believe that this proposal contains all the necessary dose of resonance, especially based on the fact that, I stress, the fact that Western European specialized services currently devote more than 80% of their costs in the field of counterterrorism and prevention of non-terrorist acts. It is for this reason that I think it is absolutely reasonable for us to take this priority in this direction and for national security, and, of course, honourable ministers, to have the opportunity to invest in this direction. Also, speaking of interaction and coordination with the specialized services in Europe and the world with which we partner, we must have the clear awareness that specialized services such as the State Agency for National Security must combine in their functionality all the resources needed to be equal partners of our international services. The specifics and overall intensity of the threats require building and maintaining of personnel potential in the State Agency of National Security. Honourable Members, please note the fact that in the last meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, a Bill amending the SANS Act was adopted at first reading, which provides for a national unit to be established to process the information booking data of passengers in the airspace. I would like to ask a question, because there are all the prerequisites for this Law to be adopted in this House, both at first and second reading, if we do not support one such proposal, which we are making in the range of 4 million for 2016, then when the change of the Law becomes a fact, this means that we will then have to look for funding to secure this subsequent functionality of the State Agency. Last but not least, it is intended to strengthen the National Counterterrorism Centre, and we all understand that all this can happen only with adequate funding in this direction. Speaking of terrorism and the inability of specialized services to provide 100% protection themselves, we believe that in support of their activities, we must ensure the necessary political unity in this direction. It is for this reason that I strongly call on you political parties today to vote on the increase of this budget in the State Agency for National Security for next 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u247	Thank you. Mr. Popov has the floor to say. After clarification in the group Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, our proposal relates to a 10 million increase in the budget of the State Agency for National Security. I would like to stress, despite the major objectives the Agency sets itself under the leadership of the Prime Minister, these funds are necessary for the normal functioning of one of the most important security authorities in Bulgaria. It has already become a tradition in the management of GERB to reduce the budget of this Agency. I will just remind you that in 2009, the budget of the State Agency for National Security was reduced by about 40%. At the same time and at the present time, we have 40% lack of contact with the State Agency itself. These are not fictions and interpretations of the opposition representatives, these are the concerned statements of Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, head of the State Agency of National Security. It has already been mentioned about the need for funds for the National Terrorist Centre, as well as the future National Unit for CNR data. These are the realities, and I cannot explain why this stubbornness is, once, notice, the majority, the government has a need to raise the budget to only one special service and this is the National Security Service by 2.5 million. I stress these alarming trends because on the day yesterday, when the budget of the Ministry of Interior was discussed, it was not considered necessary nor to strengthen with additional funds the capacity of the Directorate-General for Border Police. In general, where are we and where are we going? Yes, it is true that the Minister of Finance says: "No, you can't, but it is his duty. And since there is none of the deputy prime ministers in charge of the security sector, what will be the government's position on these issues at the end of the day? We take part in Councils of Ministers, Presidential Councils in Brussels, we make commitments, we worry, we see what is happening in Europe and around the world and, ultimately, for the most important security authority, we do not release the elementary funds that are needed. I would like to address the representatives of the political party GERB, as their representatives had proposals for at least one minimum increase in the budget by 2.5 million. This proposal was also rejected in the Commission. Colleagues, come to your senses! What's going on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u249	Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! We are proposing an increase in the budgets of both the DAR and the DANS. It's no coincidence that I mention the DAR, because the principles and motives for me are identical. We are aware that with this proposal, too, the funds will not be enough to protect our national security and adequacy, but this is a step in the right direction in the process of protecting our national interests. These agencies, honourable MPs, are responsible for protecting our national security. It is not logical to increase the budget of the NSA, but to reduce the budget of the NSA, not that they, too, do not need any more money, especially since you have adopted the NSO Act, you have increased the persons and objects to guard the Office, but it has no function in preventing acts of terrorism and invading our national security. You accepted the Ratification for data exchange of travelers, the so-called "PNR" data with airplanes on transatlantic destinations. You put this obligation on the DANS, but you did not provide it financially in order to fulfil that obligation. Growing up and tearing up your shirts for our NATO partners and protecting European values and borders, but how do we protect them and how do we meet our obligations with such a budget in this environment? I'll tell you, almost nothing. Once again, and in this crisis for the world, for Europe, for Bulgaria, the situation where the need for prevention, the need to obtain reliable intelligence is the embodiment and the budget of the DAR has not moved, but we want intelligence activities from it. With this budget, the DAR can only survive administratively, to pay its overheads for the year. Currents, telephone, internet, to receive any failures for their salaries, but not to meet the modern intelligence tools and means of collecting intelligence information and ultimately fulfilling their legal obligation. This inability, my fellow Members, does not come into this I am adamant and I say it, out of the frame of unpreparedness or initiative, but simply because of the lack of funding of our intelligence. Nevertheless, I hope that at least my colleagues from the committees will support this proposal and persuade their colleagues from the parliamentary groups to do the same. Because at least they should know the need for better funding for our security services, especially in this situation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If this budget is adopted, as proposed by the Commission, you will be responsible for the deep inability to protect our national security, and I assure you, protection is not limited by blowing up forgotten baggage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u251	Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we are discussing the budget of the SANS, which in the Commission was protected and considered to be within normal parameters. Here, however, we are given instructions that it should be another... objectives and tasks. And what goals and tasks were you assigned to 2014? Do you want him to reveal what's happening in the banks or not reveal himself? To be appointed who, or who, not to be appointed? I think the tasks that were then are tasks now. If they want to work, they can work. With regard to the Electronic Calculation Center and the huge amount of data that SANS would now work and exchange abroad. Have either of you ever set foot in the Ministry of Interior Electronic Calculator Center? I'm asking because he's been in the same place for 35 years, in the same building, in the same halls. Half is a museum, as the old equipment is dropping out, comes a new one that occupies less space, less and less space, and the information is constantly growing, the data that is being exchanged, SCREAM, SCREB, BDS, Automated Information Systems, SIT, Gabriella.. Tell me whether the international operational police cooperation is being carried out by the Ministry of Interior, which is also the Interpol, Europol, the Schengen Information System, or is being carried out by the SANS? At the moment, the Ministry of Interior with its computing centre, with its automated information systems implements all turnover and exchange of information, including encrypted information, because the DANS police attaché around the world does not exist, and the Ministry of Interior does. Who's handling the booking data information? "Immigrants" and "Boundary Police." For 20 years on computers are all databases with incoming and departing passengers. The Israeli system of Mossad was implemented 25 years ago in Bulgaria. During communism, there were beginnings on it. It is working and currently, it is being used at the moment "the database exists." Who's ever handled this before? Them. Who's gonna give it to the DANS? Them. That is, the budget given to the Ministry of Interior in the greatest and fullest amount will also cover this activity. The budget at the moment is enough. The State Agency will increase the number of translations and information requests or replies made next year. Well, this is about the adopted changes in banking legislation and the continuous exchange of bank transfers, which is automatically carried out by the banks themselves, and they are like a mailbox that forwards it to friendly intelligence, counterintelligence and other police structures. So the budget of the Ministry of Interior has been increased in view of the challenges ahead this year, the budget of the SANS after several years has been pushed forward, ahead of wages, including wages, is currently brought into line and order to meet the necessary requirements. There is always an opportunity to be increased if necessary, but at this stage this thing does not have to. Please, Madam President, given what I have said so far, to propose and accept the proposal to end the debate. [[Applause on the left. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u253	You have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u254	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Dimitrov, you have very selectively announced some of your opinions that you finally offered her an end to the debate. Have you read Annex No 3, proposed for the 2016 budget for SANS? There are specific numbers as the number of exchange of information. And when you are not familiar with the specific tables, which, by the way, do not correspond to the text, the text is copied by the law, and the numbers are what I previously reported and there is no explanation for an increase in the provision of information. Mr. Dimitrov, every eighth minute of a working day information will be generated by the National Security Agency to be provided to the partner services and this is not an exchange of information. You obviously haven't read the app, and you don't know what you're talking about. Every eighth minute, the National Security Agency will provide information to foreign services and this is the Bulgarian State Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u255	A hole? I won't. There are no other requests for speeches. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 110 MPs: 36, against 40, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 109 MPs: 41, Against 8, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 109 MPs: 35 against 35, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mihail Mikov's proposal and a group of MPs is identical with some of the proposal that we have already voted on to the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and group to increase spending. The numbers are absolutely identical. We voted it out. I therefore put to the vote the proposal of Svetoslav Belemezov and a group. The Commission does not support this proposal either. They voted 108 MPs: 38, Against 15, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 26 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 79 against 16, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u256	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 27 to 31 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u257	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u258	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Behind these figures, which you reported, art............................................................................................. 27, they're hiding the money for the so-called Bureau of Records. A structure that was created and could do its job in a certain time. So every year we give her a million and something, these people are gonna think that they're gonna exist, they're gonna read, they're gonna read, they're gonna read... I suggest that we drop this text, save that money and point it at the State Archives where these files are now the place where they can regulate how and for what to enjoy and give a sign of real reformation, show that the parasitic structures and structures without reason will not exist. Therefore, I am making a formal proposal that this § 27 be dropped and, in the course of the reforms that you have stated, that this money should go to the State Archives, where they will hand over both the building and the documentation that it reads and wants to use, in the order of all the information it uses, to use it. A formal proposal to drop art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u259	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u260	Madam President, honourable Members! I would also like, in the context of the speech in the form of a procedure, to propose art. 31, let's vote it separately, not an block. This is the member who concerns the NTAC's budget. It has already been heard that there is an increase in the order of 3 million. I think a lot of colleagues, at least from the Reformation bloc, will have reservations about this thing and will not support it, as it is not clear why this increase is being proposed after we have heard, for example, that the DANS budget is being reduced. So this is my procedure in the frame of speech. So we are strongly opposed to such proposals from this House, which have not been made between the two readings for dropping paragraphs in the project so proposed...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u261	It's the same thing you do in 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u262	No, I want a separate vote, not an block!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u263	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u264	A proposal is made here to drop the paragraph at all, which is different, Madam President. I think you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u265	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u266	So we absolutely do not agree to talk at all about the closure of the so-called Commission for Files. She hasn't done her job yet, as we all know. As we all know, the process of handing over the files of so-called Communist Intelligence is still ongoing to the Commission, which must process them and make public the individuals who have had empathy. So it's completely unfinished as a process. Separately, as you all remember, we have accepted, including with regard to the Fiscal Council, that the Commission carry out checks for belonging to the State Security (State Security) of persons who are running for such senior positions. Apart from that, with colleagues from GERB, including colleague Metodi Andreev, we have proposed a bill which provides for this to become a permanent practice. That is, for each public office to carry out such an inspection and to make it clear whether or not the person had any or no affiliation, there was an informed choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u267	The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bojinov's motion to reject art. 27 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 20, against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote members with numbers 27 to 30, including by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 115 MPs: 95 against 17, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. I am now voting on art. 31 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 89, against 16, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u268	Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the (a) all over the number (b) in Section II 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by "Accursed expenditures' and "Accursed expenditure' is replaced by "Accommodation costs'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the (a) in point II It's similar.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u269	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u270	It's basically the same thing. ............................................... 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by.19 700,0" is replaced by.21 200,0 "Current expenditures'; (b) in item III "Budget relationships (Transfers)'the number - in t. 1 "Budgets' with the central budget (+/-) "the number "s20 700,0' is replaced by "S22 200,0'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 Section II "Costs' the following amendments shall be made: 1. in line II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 55000. 2. in line 1. The number of the current expenditures is replaced by the number of the current expenditures. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1, Section II "Costs', the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u271	Statements? Mr. Belemezov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a much shorter order than my previous statement under art. 26 for the State Agency "National Security" because here the situation is absolutely identical. With the exception that the proposal that we are making in the range of 2.5 million for the increase of the budget of the State Agency is not in the direction and the cost feather of the Agency, but rather in the direction of securing the technical means through which the Agency carries out its functional activities. I would like to draw attention to the Members of the National Assembly that the proposal to increase the budget that we are doing should be within the framework of an act from one year to the end of 2016 as it is about improving the Agency's operational, information and technical base. This act should not be treated as a trend for a permanent increase in the budget of the State Intelligence Agency. In this regard, I believe that everything we offer under art. 32, is absolutely consulted with the management of the State Agency of Intelligence and is absolutely realistic in relation to the needs and financial requirements of the Agency. I would therefore like to appeal for support of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u273	The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission, and the proposal of Mr. Belemezov and a group, as the second proposal is contained in the number The same is the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Mr. Dimitar Lazarov's proposal is different. We are voting on the proposals of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs and MPs Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 34 against 47, abstention 37. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 106 MPs: 27, against 16, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 32 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 87, against 16, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Merdjanov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, to those who call from the rear lines, I would say the following: "All the efforts of the current majority, the government for a legislative framework of the services, have proved unnecessary. [[Replication of the rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] The purpose was really to dress the services in this institutionality, so to be financially insured by the state, so that they actually perform their functions under law and under Constitution. It is obvious that lies have been presented here, to put it mildly, because at all the hearings in the closed meetings of the Commission, the chiefs of services were constantly talking about the financial shortages of the services. How can some of the most important units of state function normally, of statehood, when they are not financially provided? And, notice, colleagues, this is about a symbolic increase in the budget of 2.5 million. Moreover, such timid steps were taken by colleagues from GERB, of course by our colleagues from ABB, but a voice in the desert. I would be interested in the position of the military minister who has just arrived to state, after all, what is the government's position in ensuring, in sync and in the joint work of these services? The Prime Minister directs the activities of the State Agency of Intelligence, the State Agency of National Security. Perhaps in a back-up dialogue they will be able to set up some current, temporary needs for these services, but for all this there must be predictability, there must be peace, there must be security for the employees. [[(BSP LB: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u275	Second negative vote please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u276	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I voted against this proposal because it is part of a series that brings our service into a vicious circle. Because this is a budget of uncertainty; a budget that makes us feel insecure; which makes us look down the street whether someone will pull a gun around us or kick some forgotten suitcase. Because those funds that we offered and you rejected were precisely to complete these services with the necessary personnel to carry out their work, which was given by law. This is the reason why I voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u277	Third negative vote? I won't. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u278	The Commission shall support the text for Articles 33 to 36 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u279	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u280	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! I'm making a formal proposal. Thirty-six drop out. It provides funds for the Council for electronic media for 2016. Dear Members of Parliament, you may recall that the National Assembly recently failed to accept the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the half-year of last year. Immediately after parliament's vote that it did not accept the activity report, its chairman publicly said that the parliament did not accept the report for its work had no legal consequences! Ladies and gentlemen, as long as there are no legal consequences for the National Assembly not accepting the Testimonial for your work, there is no stronger argument than for this body to exist and not have it, there are no consequences. I'm talking about the legal side, because the question has a moral side. When the authority that has chosen you is the National Assembly.. does not accept the report of your work, it is morally before you leave the parliament building to resign. Therefore, there is a set of circumstances here that needs reform. This Council, with this President, does not deserve the money we provide for it. That is why I propose that the reform should begin by voting on the dropping of art. 36 and to think of something that works and conforms to the National Assembly, which has created it and chosen it. Otherwise, we'll be driving, just like we've been doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u281	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Bojinov's motion to reject art. 36 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 36, against 56, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote anbloc members with numbers 33-36 included. They voted 115 MPs: 98 against 14, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u282	Under art. 37 has a proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 37 para. 1 is amended as follows: It shall adopt the Commission's budget for energy and water regulation for the year 2016 as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1 the following amounts are amended: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37 as in para. 2 the words "the State Commission" shall be replaced by "the State Commission" and "the State Commission" shall be replaced by "the State Commission."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u283	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. After him, Valentin Nikolov, Iskren Veselinov and Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the State Budget Act between first and second reading, at second reading, is a very serious activity and undertaking. For this reason, your attention under art. 37 A proposal has been presented to you, signed by all the parliamentary groups, has a serious consensus. There are representatives of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front, the BSP, by the ABB has not been signed since Mr. Tsochev travelled but gave his consent. In the world where there's electronic control, we assume he supported it, too. The Bulgarian Democratic Center and even the Ataka Party, which I do not see today in Parliament, through Mrs Tasheva, have also supported the proposal. What's this about? It is about increasing the Commission's budget for energy and water regulation by 1.3 million. lv. We're assigning a new kind of function to the KEWRC. For a long time in energy, there was no control and because of the lack of control, things got there. We expect now the KEWRC to take on new, serious control functions in Bulgaria. In a moment, my colleague Dobrev will remind you in more detail that this is also the position of the European Commission. I must say that, even if it was not requested by the European Commission, we believe that the KEWRC should exercise control over energy companies and therefore need a new budget. It is no coincidence that this proposal, honourable Members, is supported by all the parliamentary groups. Everyone understands that the new control functions that we want to be entrusted to the KEWRC must be funded with new functions and stronger control do not happen without a budget. With such arguments, the respected Mrs. Menda Stoyanova increased the budget of the Court of Auditors and we supported it with the same reasons, with the same arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u285	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u286	Then we stood firmly behind her proposal. Now, because it is a similar approach for a body to acquire new, strong control functions, we expect to vote on this additional budget. I'll give an example. Do you remember, honourable Members, how we, as Parliament, voted that heat efficiency and plant plants must install special equipment to account for the current they are being bought out. On my question Minister Temenuzhka Petkova said that most have not installed. We have voted on the law, we have adopted order and control in energy, we ask here when the deadline has passed, but most of the heat efficiency and plant plants turned out not to have installed such appliances. Well, who's gonna enforce the law? Who will require the texts that we have voted with you to be implemented?! How are we gonna do that? How will there be control and order in energy? Therefore, we want the KEWR to be not only a price-setting body. He still had control functions, but in terms of control he did not have the necessary scale and staff. Now we want in the field of control the KEWRC to hire new employees and to become the strong control body that will monitor the legality of energy and not waste money, not to burden the NEK with an additional deficit. One million and 300,000. BGN, ladies and gentlemen, given for control, will return repeatedly to the savings thanks to the stronger control in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Finally: if we want chronic deficits in NEC to be stopped or at least limited, this is done with more control. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not bring more control into the sector, however good measures to adopt Parliament, as I have already set an example, they will not be implemented or partially implemented and the effect will not be achieved. My fellow Members, thank you for signing this proposal for all the parliamentary groups. I now rely on your votes to make a good change that is for more control in energy and will repay us with a lower deficit the next day for the National Electricity Company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u287	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. A line from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. Then Peter Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Our parliamentary group will support this proposal, and so will I. However, I would like you to confirm in a clear manner another principle that you have recently launched in the public domain for the independence of regulators and for the remuneration ceiling of commissioners. At the end of your speech, you were talking about expertise, about new people experts to develop this deserves support. Otherwise, however, you cannot fail to acknowledge that in this Chamber of Commissioners there are those in the previous period, which you deny and say there was chaos and disorder, it was they who cancelled the sanctions from the audit report to the ERP for hundreds of millions of damages to the Bulgarian economy. They are acting as new commissioners in the new composition of the KEWRC. I am going to vote on it, but to be clear: salaries and money for experts to prepare their opinions, and the commissioners' salaries are good!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u289	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u290	Again, honourable Members, this is a proposal signed by all parliamentary groups, including several representatives of GERB. I would say those who are most competent in the field of energy have signed it, who understand what this is about. That's them. In other words, the person who should from GERB has signed it so to tell you. As for Mr. Bozhinov, see, Mr. Bozhinov, let us distinguish the position that is signed by all parliamentary groups from the personal position of me and my colleague Slavov in the Reformation Block and the position of the Reformation Block. Yes, we want a wage ceiling in regulators, but this is our position and let's not mix them. These additional funds here will go for new employees in the field of........................................................................................... That's the idea. That is, a whole function that is not developed and which the KEWRC has turned out not to apply properly. In this special committee, which heads Mr. Valeri Simeonov, we repeatedly called the KEWRC to talk with us and it turns out that they have very few employees with regard to the control function, which does not allow them to perform it properly. For this reason, we want this additional budget for experts to, for experts to perform the quality and scale control function, to control the many companies in the RES sector, in the heating sector, in general, all enterprises, including state enterprises, including private companies in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is the position, supported by all parliamentary groups. Most control will pay off, colleagues. This million and 300 may seem like a lot to you now, but good control will save us millions, which, due to compliance with the laws and regulations, will not disappear from Bulgarian energy. So most control will be paid back next year. I call on you not to politicize this debate, so, Mr. Bozhanov, I answer you in this way, but to support it all together and to show that there are topics that unite the Bulgarian Parliament and we can make decisions competently and together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u291	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Personal explanation Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, I want to disprove your words. You mislead the people's representation that we have increased the budget of the Court of Auditors and the KEWRC's Commission does not want to increase it. That's not true. From the budget of the Court of Auditors from one feather were transferred to another feather, true BGN, which is needed by the Court of Auditors in order to pay the benefits to the people of employment who have been over retirement age since 2007, thanks to the change that we accepted the summer. And this they will do within their budget, which is 15 million. lv. And the KEWRC budget, ladies and gentlemen, is 11.5 million. lv. I ask: what control bodies are still needed by KEWRC, since one such control body as the Court of Auditors can handle 15 million. BGN, and KEWRC with 11 needs more money to appoint control bodies?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u293	That's not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. To speak, the people representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u295	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, if anyone here is fooling the National Assembly, this is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, because if we are talking about 11 million, these are the revenues that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has. Notice, the Commission's established costs are 4 million and few, which is basically a Copi-pass from the previous budget. I would just like to remind you that about a few months ago, we unanimously decided that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission needed this to be more independent, as a result of which to be elected by the National Assembly. And even then I stood up and told you that the independence of the Commission is not only dependent on who chooses it, but also on what funds it has. Then almost all of us began to convince ourselves and talk that yes, good, so it will be, but let the new budget come. Well, here comes the new budget, the same picture! Not just that. In the group that we have signed this proposal, we are almost the entire Energy Commission, which basically means that the working body of the National Assembly, which is called upon to develop the laws, which is called upon to perform the function of the professional guild of the National Assembly in the field of energy, has unanimously proposed to increase this budget. And I'm really asking you really, really please, let's do this thing, because it's not just about increasing wages, which is probably the last care. This is about increasing the volume of work. Remember that we have increased the sites that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must control. It is about the creation of the single energy European market that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must have opportunities for international cooperation that money does not reach at all at the moment. This is about increasing the capacity of experts and their interest in working, because in this Commission, if we want to have control over producers and consumers of energy, even more in the conditions of a liberalised market and an energy exchange in force, we must have specialists who are better than those in the ERP. Well, we won't be able to provide them with these salaries, but at least provide them with some more dignified existence. And here, at last, we are talking about a consistent policy that we promised then to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission that it will be brought into line with it. Notice, we're talking about 11 million revenue. Of these, 6 million we propose to go for the needs of the Commission, which I think is more than normal, more than acceptable. Moreover, with this increased budget, the Commission itself will increase its revenues, which will go back to the budget. So a real negative impact on the budget as a whole, as a framework is not expected. Once again, please take into account the professional guild of the Energetics in the National Assembly, if I may say so, and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u296	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. To speak, the people representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u297	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Much of the motives have spoken, and I can add very few things. In fact, what I want to say is that every revenue from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is based on some fee that should correspond to the costs that the Commission has. Currently, the costs it incurs are below 50% of the revenue collected. The Commission's elementary action for energy and water regulation should be to reduce the fees it collects for licences and other types of activities and consequently to suffer the revenue of the budget. However, this should not happen to me. Rather, we need to go in the direction that we are proposing together with our colleagues working in this area. We need to increase the costs of the Commission not to receive higher salaries or to have any extras, but to be able to control it, because five people are currently dealing, as material terms, with the control of the costs of all energy companies, five people for hundreds of energy companies, starting from the area of electricity production and ending trade. This is extremely unnatural and insane. We are talking about constant growth, at least the desire of energy companies to increase prices, recognition of additional costs. We don't have the tools to see if these costs are normal. After all, these five people are enough to collect invoices, to describe them during the month, and that's all. So I also appeal to support this text, because if I have to rephrase that phrase that whoever does not feed his own army, feeds a foreigner who does not feed his own regulator, will feed the energy mafia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u298	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. To speak, the public representative Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u299	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I fully agree with everyone, before I have spoken, we agree. I will be very brief "I call on the Parliamentary Group of GERB to believe its energyists, who are very good "Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Nenkov." They're importers, they know why they're offering it. Please consider their proposal, and it is unanimous with the proposal of all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. Is there anyone else who can speak? Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Procedure for ending debates and voting on texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u302	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think we're a little hasty with the procedure. It is your decision on your conscience to weigh, but it was right for honourable Members to be aware of the reasons why we are united around this demand for some million. I would just like to point out to you that the extremely serious violations to which Bulgarian energy has been victimized have not yet been proven and have not been presented to the institutions concerned simply for the reason that there was not enough composition to be established. It's about putting RES into operation that hasn't been built. Have you ever heard of such a miracle that it was not built, and it works, and we buy it and pay it expensive electricity?! We are talking about the cold reserves of the American Maritzi 1 and 3, which are not really prepared, are not ready, and we pay them 50 and 70 leva. megawatt, respectively, without working! It's such a gross offense! He needs people to be assigned to check on them. Rather, I disagree with the termination because it did not become clear in this period, which was told to colleagues that this money would return much more money. I appeal in the vote to support our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u304	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov to end the debates. They voted 133 MPs: 84, against 39, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Did everyone get a vote? They voted 137 MPs: 60 against 6, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u305	I voted, but I saw that colleagues failed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u306	I specifically asked if everyone voted and saw if there was any movement in the room. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u307	Dear Mr. Chairman, I see that Gen. Atanasov has entered the Chamber and has not been able to vote, which is why I am addressing you with a request for a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u308	It's a re-vote for Gen. Atanasov. They voted 139 MPs: 63, against 8, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 138 MPs: 55 against 13, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 37 as in para. 2 the words "The State Commission" were replaced by "the State Commission" after the draft Budget and Finance Committee. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 37, which is art. 37 in the Commission report. Vote 137 MPs: 101 against 19, abstention 17. Article 37 on the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, sometimes I am amazed at everything we do in this House. What was the point of reaching agreement and consensus in the way the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will be chosen? What was the point of asking these commissioners? What was the point of being entrusted with additional powers and creating expectations that we are building a body that, you see, will bring out a number of energy failures and will correct a number of deficits in this sector, and we have just not voted for a million increases in this Commission's budget?! And notice, let's leave this 1 million of the revenues that the Commission itself collects on the basis of the licenses and services it makes. We want to oppose, on one hand, the members of the Commission of the regulator and the people who work there. You know what the average wages are, and against them are the sector...... with all these large corporate structures and their legal capacity as they have. It's a similar situation in RES. Then we create special committees that investigate when, who has done what and why the level and capacity of work has been so low in time and we have no results. I cannot understand this, given that the entire Commission, the portfolio committees dealing with this sector, unanimously all the members signed this proposal. I ask why, then, are we discussing the budget on committees, why are we playing to make these kinds of proposals, when you stubbornly do not want to make any budget corrections?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u310	Mr. Boychev, I am very sorry, you have a negative vote on the text of the Committee on Report. If the reporter's text had not been adopted, you would have left the Commission without a budget at all. Do you want to leave her too? Yeah, come on in. A negative vote means you don't want this Commission to have a budget at all and you're closing it. That's what you want to argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it because with the proposed funding of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Commission will not be able, under Law, to fulfil its main commitment with content, and it includes what Mr. Simeonov shared with you. Unfortunately, those who supported the text with this amount should rather qualify them as wishing to conceal possible violations in the energy sector. [[Applause.]] This is the result of the current vote. Personally, I'm against it. I believe that the Commission's stated energy and water regulation intention to have regional receptions, which is at the service of the Bulgarian citizens, with this budget that you voted on, cannot be fulfilled except for the cover-up of abuses, which, I sincerely believed, would have the will to be shown on the table, and let the citizens judge in the way in which the individual parliamentary groups voted, who wants what to happen in energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u312	Third negative vote, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u313	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister! I believe that we have made a huge mistake to show, for once, that we can unite all the political forces and really oppose abuses. Because it was this Commission that was tasked with this purpose. Now we cut off her wings. We have de facto cut off the entire policy that has been under way for years, to really start stopping abuse, especially for the RES sector. Mr. Simeonov is right there are the biggest abuses. If these people don't get an increase in capacity, if we don't help them with the funding they need, tell me what we're doing this budget for then? Let's be honest with the Bulgarian voters if we have to close this Commission, everyone can do whatever they want. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova tried to mislead the MPs that they almost had a very large budget of 11 million, how much did you say? Not at all. It's twice the budget. But these people want to work to carry, notice the revenues of the Bulgarian state. And now we have suddenly stopped them, given that all the political forces have united in this case. Really, I don't get it. But, of course, the majority of GERB, much of them, do not want this to happen. Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova? That's what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u314	May I?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u315	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u316	Madam President, I can't understand why you're leaving three negative votes, which are practically not in substance? Negative vote, coworkers didn't vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u317	How could they not have voted?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u318	Mr. Stoynev, please hold back!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u319	Colleagues have not voted for the European Parliament, but against the entire budget of the Commission for energy and water regulation. Perhaps this is another reform that is being proposed from the left, not voting the budget, to close down a Commission. Besides, I'd like to remind my colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u320	To me in the manner of conduct, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u321	Yeah, that if they wanted a lot of explaining, and if they wanted a lot of defending their thesis, they would have come to the Budget Committee. This is the Commission, which examines all the proposals in detail, with their arguments. Moreover, they left the Commission then, and now in this House they want to collect votes in hell hock. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u322	Colleagues, the rest will be after the vote on art. 49. To art. 49 working. Report the next one!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u323	Under art. 38 has a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov, Ramadan Atali, Martin Dimitrov, Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev, Dragomir Stoinev, Petya Avramova, Iskren Veselinov, Valeri Simeonov, Dimitar Zhelev, Georgi Nedev, Magdalena Tasheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38 para. 1 is amended as follows: Art. 38. (1) adopt the budget of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency for 2016 as follows: (follows a table in graphic terms with figures and words.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u324	Statements? Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Nikolov after him, Mr. Boychev will be third and fourth Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u325	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm not a naivet, and I know I stand here for nothing. I'm not naive, and I know I stand here for nothing, but I still want you to hear, I hope there's some sense in your head. At least a little bit, hey so you can find out what it's about. When we talked about the KEWRC and you didn't accept it, you didn't accept that you wouldn't be able to check and control the relevant consumers and energy producers. But if you now reject this minimal increase in the budget of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, with just over 400,000. lv. I speak, there is not even half a million, you are questioning Bulgaria's security in the field of nuclear energy. The Nuclear Regulatory Agency currently has a license to extend the life of the units V and VI. There is a possible licensing of fuel replacement, which you are all talking about here that needs to be replaced by Russian to something else, but in order for this to happen, there must be someone who can give permission, and that is the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. We're all talking here that we want to build a VI block. We've passed through Qatar, we've reached China, never mind, someone wants to build it............... let them do it. But in order for this to happen, we still need the Nuclear Regulatory Agency to make the appropriate decision. In order for these things to happen, highly qualified professionals in the field of nuclear energy must work at the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. This is an extremely high-paid specialty, and we keep them on salaries of 400 BGN. They don't even have a chance to go to school somewhere where they can learn anything more than what they learned at the university. I call on you, we are talking about the future of nuclear energy, we are talking about security, because if any RES allows itself to commit a breach, the result is that we pay more as electricity, but if you don't, God forbid, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency makes any mistake due to the insufficient professionalism of its members, its employees, the nuclear reaction is something much scarier than the high account. Be reasonable, very please accept it.. 440 thousand. BGN, and notice, it is not about the budget dots, but about the increase of the Agency's expenditure at the expense of its own revenues. She's generating twice as much revenue as we've given her in the budget. One more time for the future of our children, for the future of nuclear energy, for the security of the state, support at least this increase!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u326	Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u327	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to make this statement to you in order to tell you that the budget for the next year of this Agency, as well as the previous member, of course, but what we are debating now in relation to the nuclear regulator, is particularly important for 2016. Mr. Ermenkov mentioned several aspects. The next year will be submitted a report on Unit V to the NPP - Kozloduy - with which the Agency should rule and grant a license in 2017 for a 10-year period of NPP - Kozloduy - so that block V can work. If this does not happen, I think there will be no government that wants to take the lead of the Republic of Bulgaria. The extension of the life of the V and VI bloc is a priority of every Bulgarian government so far. This is done by the nuclear regulator, but, notice, it must rule in harmony with international practices, with international regulations so that the international community will believe this regulator that it is sufficiently expert and reliable in its assessment to be able to trust this licence. The other thing this nuclear regulator is doing is linear accelerators, which are currently being found in high-tech hospitals in Bulgaria. They also pass through this regulator, it is also assessed, and specialists in Bulgaria no longer have enough, because there are jobs outside Bulgaria that are attractive enough. I agree with Mr. Ermenkov, and there is full agreement here in all the political forces dealing with this issue. A lot of people are calling why the nuclear regulator doesn't give them a quick license to the X-rays so they can operate in the relevant hospitals? How do we do that when we don't have the capacity?! We're talking $440,000. BGN, which are not a transfer from the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, but are at the expense of the revenues that are formed by the activities of this regulator. I am sure that if we increase the capacity, they will be covered with more revenue that will go to the budget. I would call on you to take this step precisely for 2016 because it is the beginning of the licensing of block V and subsequently of block VI. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u328	Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u329	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to continue with the arguments regarding the proposal that we have made with, notice, only 440 thousand. lv. an increase in funds for the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Everyone asks himself why we should do it, beyond what colleagues have said, that it has 1200 licence holders, beyond that it at a different stage supports and is responsible for 13 nuclear facilities, including the important extension of the V and VI block period, including the licensing of the National Repository for radioactive waste that is coming, including, you see, from the government delegation that was in China, the prospects for the VII block, for which we still need such a regulator? Colleagues, the powers and scope of activities of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency have been significantly increased. They also derive from the commitment it has as a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency. A peer review of our Agency, our regulator, was carried out in 2013. There are many findings in this inspection and some of the most serious findings and remarks are on strengthening the personnel and expertise of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. The agency has 114 members of staff, currently employed 100 people. Last year, 20 specialists from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency left. You know, it's been mentioned here that in recent years many massively enter and such types of sources of ionized radiation in medicine. This further aggravates and increases the amount of work of this Agency, but it also puts us in front of another situation? Every expert from the Agency has the opportunity to go out on the free market and to receive many times higher remuneration, so that we are faced with a very difficult situation that we cannot combine the expert composition of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, and it is the basis of each of our major projects and the development and maintenance of nuclear energy in Bulgaria. That is why we have all united on this proposal. Once again, the Agency is collecting 7,5 million revenue and we are asking for this revenue, not a transfer from the national budget, an additional 440 thousand, so that this personnel leak process can be stopped. Moreover, the peer review by the International Atomic Energy Agency will be in the spring of 2016 and then I would not like to be in the place of the government and the majority responsible for this to listen to the findings that will be made of this check. My request is that we all join together and do one useful thing by supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u330	Thank you. Mr. Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u331	Madam President, honourable Members! Next year Bulgaria celebrates 50 years of development of nuclear facilities for peaceful use. It has produced 510 teravat hours, which means 500 billion kilowatt hours of electricity worth 41 billion. BGN, and paid off the investments from I to VI block of eight times. Bulgaria has no right to afford the luxury of shutting down as a nuclear state to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, as it is one of the few countries from 30 in the world that works at full speed, with many specialists, with many capacities, without any nuclear accidents. But without a nuclear regulator, that doesn't work. In the years when I observed energy as Deputy Prime Minister 20 years ago, there was a Committee for the Use of Nuclear Energy for Peaceful Purposes, now the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Without them, without the specialists, we cannot issue one license, one permission for anything in the field of nuclear energy. By saying all this, I'm joining my colleagues. Notice, the people in parliament who understand energy are all united in art. 37 and 38. They will probably also be united in the vision of nuclear energy development, which I will personally propose to the Development Council and from there to you in Parliament. Bulgaria must develop nuclear energy and respected Prime Minister Boyko Borisov speaks now in China, I was in his delegation, for the development of nuclear capacities in Bulgaria. But nuclear power without the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, forget it, that can't happen. I appeal to you, believe in the Energy Commission, there are serious specialists. Trust your colleagues and vote for these none Four hundred and forty thousand. BGN, so we don't close the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u332	The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Delyan Dobrev and members of the Energy Commission, which the Commission does not support. They voted 136 MPs: for 67, against 2, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Revoting Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u333	Madam President, I'm afraid not all my fellow Members have been able to vote. I'm addressing you with a request for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u334	It's a re-vote. 135 MPs voted: 64, none, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u335	Madam President, I appeal to you with a proposal that I will try to justify. Since it is obvious that even when there is a need for consensus, the government does not want this to happen, and is guided not by reason, but by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, I ask you very much, at least call a Chairman's Council to discuss whether there is any point whatsoever for the opposition to participate from here on in the adoption of this budget, or we hinder you with our presence and annoy you, which is why we will leave you to govern yourselves and bear the consequences. But from now on, gentlemen, when the streets start beating you with pavement, don't come to us for help. [[(Voices it ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u336	To finish us off, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u337	No, we're helping you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u338	Colleagues, I'm voting on art. 38 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 86, against 18, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u339	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 39 to 49 without Article 49. 45, which I will report separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u340	Colleagues, I am opening the debate on members with numbers 39 to 44 including 46 to 49 including an importer supported by the Commission. Statements? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. We vote members with numbers 39 to 44 including 46 to 49 inclusive. Article 45 will then be reported as there are proposals. Please vote. They voted 120 MPs: 98 against 15, abstentioned 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u341	Under art. 45 there is a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II - in row II, the cost of the number of the amount of the total amount of the aid is replaced by the amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. - in row 1 - in row 1.2. "Subsidies" and row 1.2.1. The number of the financial corporations is replaced by the number of the non-financial corporations and the number of the non-financial corporations is replaced by the number of the non-financial corporations and the number of the (b) in Section III, in row III. "Budget relations" and line 1 "Budget relations" with the central budget "the number "391 278,6" is replaced by "451 278,6". 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 1 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the field of agriculture and rural areas, the number b) of row 3. In para. The maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that can be made in 2016 and the number of the commitments for the period 2016 shall be replaced by the maximum amount of the commitments for expenditure that may be made in 2016 and the number of the commitments for the year 2016 shall be 326 374,8 and shall be replaced by the amount of the commitments for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 and shall be replaced by the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. It's identical one-to-one. The Commission does not support it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u342	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u343	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Here we have made a proposal that is more ambitious than the proposal we made for the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Our proposal is to increase spending by 60 million. lv. I would like to argue why I am making such a proposal. We are aware that the Fund's budget, which is proposed, is based on notified and approved expenditure. We believe that the year to come will be very delicate in terms of many situations. For example, the relationship between Russia and Turkey and the embargo imposed on many of the Turkish products exported to Russia could create a potential threat to our producers and we could be flooded...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u344	Excuse me, Mr. Danev. Your colleagues on the left have a photo shoot! Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u345	Thank you. It is this that can be a kind of dumping and competition of our producers. That is why we have offered in subsidies for non-financial corporations and in para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. be a buffer expressed and spent in a policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in rural areas. This buffer can be used in such force majeure situations as was the situation with farmers at the end of this year, for which several million were found to be helped and saved by bankruptcy many farmers producing milk and dairy products. That is why it is our appeal and our desire to support our proposal, so that the Fund could have the opportunity to have the 60 million, through various programmes such as deminmiss and other financial instruments, to compensate farmers for emerging force majeure on the market. I therefore ask you, Members of Parliament, to vote on our proposal so that we can work safely in the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u346	Thank you, Mr. Danev. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, identical with the proposal of Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova and group. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 113 MPs: 30, against 44, abstention 39. The proposals have not been accepted. Vote art. 45 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 94, against 20, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, under art. 50 there are many proposals made that will also take more time to report them. I'm calling a 15-minute recess. In 15 minutes, the report of the proposals begins in the Chamber. Rest till 3:40 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u347	We are continuing the meeting, honourable Members. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u348	Article 50 We begin with a proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) - the number "Secretary 2 222 918.7" is replaced by "Secretary 2 251 418.7"; - the number. "142090,2" is replaced by.170 590,2. The following amendments shall be made: (a) of line - the number..29 042.9%..30 - the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' by "supplied'. For repair and reconstruction of the sports hall. The following amendments shall be made: (a) in line with the Banite: - the number "supplier 2 267,4' is replaced by "supplier 3 767,4'; - the number..496,1...1 For construction of the road Zagrazhden - the number - the number..181,3...1 681,3......................................................................................... of line.. - the number - the number..483.2...2 About the Osikovo road, Krichim, for rehabilitation of streets in Devin, Trigrad and Groudno, for cemetery park in Devin. "Goldograd": - the number..5 219,4...7 - the number For the construction of the road Zlatograd, Kushla, for the water supply of Stankova neighborhood, Lower and sewerage in Alamovtsi. "Madan": - the number - the number "790,6" is replaced by "2 790,6." For the intercommunal road network Madan "Vechtino" and Madan "Galishte." "Sunday's Day": - the number - the number "648,7' is replaced by "2 648,7'. For the construction of the road Nedelino "Roozem": - the number - the number..388,1.....2 For the construction of municipal roads Rudozem "Smolyan": - the number..19 - the number..1 578,4.... 11 For repair and reconstruction of swimming pool, city stadium, volleyball playground, for municipal roads to Sivino, near Gorovo, Kutella Slaveinovo. - Chepelare. - Chepelare. - the number - the number..388,9.....2 To build a main road Chepelare and streets in the city. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dora Yankova, Manol Genov and Radoslav Stoychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is - the number - the number..269 000,0.. is replaced by.309 - the number - the number....142090,2.. is replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments are made: for position District Stara Zagora: - in line "Brothers Daskalovi" "The number"..3604.2" is replaced by.4144.19............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in the row "Gurkovo', the number s "2568,4' is replaced by "S2746,49' and the number "S161,9' is replaced by "S78,09'; - in line "Gilbovo', the number "..5125,7' is replaced - in line - in row "Moglig', the number ".4593,9' is replaced by.4956,13 " and the number..329,3' is replaced by.362,23 "; - in row "Nikolaevo', the number..2899,4.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - in line - in line with the number "Pavel bath', the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied bath' and the number "supplied bath' is replaced by "supplied bath'; - in line "Dayday-to-day', the number of "7408,7' is replaced by "8022,94' and the number of "to-day-to-day' is replaced by "to-day-to-day' and "to-day' is replaced by "to-day-to-day'; - in line "Stara Zagora" "the number" "54024,3" is replaced by "six hundred fifty-six,51" and the number "six-one-one-one-one-one-one-one" is replaced by "six-two-two-two-two-two-one-one-one-one." - in line "Cirpan" the number "Shirpan" is replaced by "Shirpan" and the number "Shirpan" is replaced by "Shirpan" is replaced by "Shirpan" and the number "Shirpan" is replaced by "Shirpan" is replaced by "Shirpan" and the number "Shirpan" is replaced by "Shirpan." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Raynov: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) in row. - the number - the number "680,4' is replaced by "1 680,4'. (b) in row - the number "six hundred and twenty-seven, two hundred and twenty-seven, two hundred and twenty-seven, two hundred and - the number....214.3.. is replaced by..314.3.. (c) of row - the number - the (d) of row - the number..11 008,1... is replaced by.11 - the number (e) of line "Medkovets": - the number - the number "118,6' is replaced by "318,6'. (f) of line - the number..2 0 041.7...20 - the number "sixteen-five-zero-zero' is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov, Miho Mihov, Mariana Todorova, Ivan Stankov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Ivan Ivanov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Petar Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, row: - column 3 - Total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State - column 4 "Transfers for local activities"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - column 5 "Transfer for winter maintenance and snow-cleaning of the municipal roads' is replaced by - column 6 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) The Great Preslavs: - the number..4 979,4... is replaced by.5 - the number - the number..331,2... (b) "Shumen": - the number..34 - the number "s176,3' is replaced by "S276,3'; - the number..1 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and Radoslav Stoychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) of line "Botevgrad": - the number..12 717.1... is replaced by.12 - the number "S1797.5' is replaced by "1 997.5'. (b) in line with the "Forest Raspberry": - the number..2 838.1...2 848.1........................................................................................ - the number - the number..24,9...29.9... - the number..116,6.. is replaced c) of row - the number..8 169,3...8 - the number - the number - the number.. (d) of row "Zlatitsa" (Zlatitsa): - the number "supplier 2 216,0" is replaced by "supplier 2 244,0" is replaced by "supplier 2 244,0" is replaced by - the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (e) of line - the number "six-six-three-nine' is replaced by four-six-six-eight-three-nine. - the number "six two, three' is replaced by "seven two, three'; - the number - the number..314.1.. is replaced (f) of line - the number.s. 3 301,9.... 3 328,9.................................................................... 3 - the - the number "sixteen-one-one' is replaced by seven-five-one-seven-one; - the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. (g) of line - the number six hundred and seven hundred and seven hundred and seven hundred and seven thousand is replaced by six seven - the number - the number (h) of row - the number..13 959,8....is replaced by.14 379,8.. - the number - the - the number..737,5... (i) in row "Chavdar": - the number..745, 4.. is replaced - the - the number..20,3.. is replaced - the number "sixty-sixty-one' is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: (a) of line - the number - the number (b) of line "Blagoevgrad": - the number..30 142,7.... is replaced by.30 392,7................. 30 392,7................................................... 30 - the number..965,6...1 c) of row - the number..14 396,3...14 - the number (d) of row - the number - the number..385.5... (e) of line - the number - the number "six hundred and twenty-five thousand' is replaced by four hundred and forty-five hundred and (f) of row - the number..8 555,6...... 8 - the number "sixteen-five-five-six-six-six-six' is replaced by (g) of line "Satovcha": - the number "7 470,9' is replaced by "7 570,9'; - the number..388,7....is replaced by.488,7... (h) of line - the number - the number "sixty-five-six-one-six-one' is replaced by (i) of row "Hajidimovo": - the number..4 839,9.... 4 - the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Manol Genov, Dimitar Dubov and Georgi Turnovaliski: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, Plovdiv District, the following changes are made: (a) of line Assenovgrad: - the number..4 979,4.... 5 - the number - the number..331,2... (b) of row "Brezovo": - the number..34 400,0....is replaced by..58 480,0. - the number "s176,3' is replaced by "S276,3'; - the number..1 057.2...25 c) of row - the number "supplied 5 984,2" is replaced by "supplied 6 044,2" is replaced by "supplied 6 044,2"; - the number....34.2....is replaced by.44.2.. - the number (d) of row - the number..4 178..4 - the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' and "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; - the number (e) of row - the number "9 414,4' is replaced by "9 544,4'; - the number..102,4.. is replaced - the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendment shall be made: - in line "Polish Trumbes" the number. "358.7" is replaced by "6 358.7". The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and Philip Popov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following changes shall be made: (a) the number of the number (b) the number of the number of the warlords is replaced by the number of the warlords; (c) the number of the warriors; (d) the number of the warriors; (e) the number of the warriors; (f) the number of the warriors; (f) the number of the warriors; (f) the number of the warriors; (f) the (c) in row "Bregovos', the number "..4085,7' is replaced (d) the number (e) in row "Gramada', the number "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' and the number "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous'; (f) the number of the line "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" and "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" is replaced by "Dimovo" (g) the number of the line........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (h) in row "Macres', the number "Macres' is replaced by "Mahresh' and the number "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh' and "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh' is replaced by "Mahresh'; (i) in row (j) in row. (Ruzintsi) the number..2644,3. is replaced (k) in line "Suchprene', the number "s1791,8' is replaced by "s1810,56' and the number "s187,6' is replaced by "synchronous' and "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' and "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' and "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous'. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the N.S.P. Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Shishkov, Borislav Milanov, Valentin Pavlov, Nikola Hadjiyski, Nastimir Ananiev, Borislav Velikov, Dimitar Delchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is (a) in the text prior to the table of municipalities, after the words the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State (b) in order "Everything', in the column "2'. Budgetary relations. The number of the budget relations....2 662 137.0.. shall be replaced by..2 693 321.0....in the column of the H. The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State. A target subsidy for capital expenditure is replaced by a number of (c) in the column?6. The target subsidy for capital expenditure is to increase the amount for each municipality by 10%. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Petar Chobanov, Stanislav Anastasov, Ramadan Atali, Hamid Hamid, Yanko Yankov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Erjan Ebatin, Saliha Emin, Erdinch Hajrula, Hussein Hafuzov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Mustafa Ahmed: The following changes shall be made in Art. 50: 1. The existing text of art. 50 becomes para. 1. 2. New paragraphs 2 and 3 are hereby established. A further capital programme is set up to support the development of municipalities of 30 million. lv. (3) The funds under para. 2 shall be distributed by municipalities as follows: - Head, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Sitovo, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Dulovo, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Alphatar, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Kaynarja, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Kardjali, 600,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Jebel, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Krumovgrad - 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Borino, 250 grand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Rudozem, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Madan, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Sunday, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Cheeky, 350,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Kaolinovo, 350 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - A wreath of 350,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Verbica, 350,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Isperih, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Kubrat, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Razgrad, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - King Kaloyan, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Testament, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Vineyard, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Samuel, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - 300,000 Sevlievo. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Stambolovo - 250 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Mineral baths - 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Momchilgrad, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Kirilovo, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ardino, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Black eyes, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Rouen, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Sungurlare, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Aytos, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Krushari, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Omurtag, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Opaka, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Antonovo.. 200 thousand. lv. - Borovan, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Krivodol, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Roman, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Hajredin, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Deer, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Velingrad, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Batak, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - It's three hundred thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Yakoruda, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Guard, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Svishtov, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Veliko Tarnovo - 500 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Gorna Oryahovitsa, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Montana, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Lom, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Berkovitsa, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Versailles, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Valcedrum, 500 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Medkovets, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Broussards, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Boychinos, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Chiprovtsi, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Yakimovo, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Georgi Damyanovo - 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Vidin - 500 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Dimovo - 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Chuprene, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Warrior, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ruzins, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Belogradchik, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Kneja, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Down Dubnik, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Wolf dol, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Longfield, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Vetrino, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Levski, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Pordim, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Red Beach, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Aviary, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Teteven, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Lukovit, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Ugurchin, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Sliven, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Boiler, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Nova Zagora, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Tough one, 200,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Yambol, 500,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Elhovo, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Tunja, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Bolyarovo - 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Straldja, 300,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Chirpan, 400,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - White Slatina, 300,000. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, in items Haskovo District, the following amendments are made: - in line "Madjarovo" the number - in line "Svilengrad" "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad"; the number "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad"; the number "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad"; the number "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by "Svilengrad" is replaced by - in line "Haskovo', the number.. 30 922,5..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Yavor Haytov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Georgi Kovachev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 It accepts the amounts of budgetary relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities for 2016 in the form of subsidies under a mechanism according to Annex No 6 and by species and by municipalities. The following additions and amendments shall be made: For Vratsa region: - for Oryahovo: In the local transport services section, we propose to add the amount of money for winter maintenance and snow-cleaning of municipal roads. 104,6 lv. and the target equity subsidy to acquire the following form: 150,0. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the N.S.P. Yavor Haytov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Georgi Kovachev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 It accepts the amounts of budgetary relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities for 2016 in the form of subsidies under a mechanism according to Annex No 6 and by species and by municipalities. The following additions and amendments shall be made: For Vratsa region: - for Kozloduy: In the section of the relationship, we propose to add the amount 50,0 thousand. lv. and the target equity subsidy to acquire the following form: 246,9. The amount is essential for finishing work on the recently completed project on the so-called project. supposed to be in the same mode of transport as in the same mode of transport as in the same way as in the same way as in the same mode of transport. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Yavor Haytov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Georgi Kovachev: In Article 4 (1) (b), It accepts the amounts of budgetary relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities for 2016 in the form of subsidies under a mechanism according to Annex No 6 and by species and by municipalities. The following additions and amendments shall be made: For Vratsa region: - for Krivodol: In the section of the relationship, we propose to add the amount 42.0 thousand leva. The amount is for flood prevention and the target subsidy for capital expenditure to acquire the following form: 356,8. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the N.S.P. Yavor Haytov, Georgi Kovachev and Borislav Iglev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: It accepts the amounts of budgetary relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities for 2016 in the form of subsidies under a mechanism according to Annex No 6 and by species and by municipalities, the following additions and amendments are made for the city of Roman, under the heading. Vratsa: - In the section of the relationship, we propose to add the amount of BGN 1 211.1. and the target equity subsidy to acquire the following form: 1 546,1. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u349	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. First to join the People's Representative Emil Raynov [[Voices "Eeeeeee" by GERB.]] , Philip Popov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u350	Thank you. Honourable Chairman, honourable Members! As a Member of Parliament from the Montenegrin Multi-Manandaten Election Region, I am before you to protect the proposals I have for the Montana region. Far be it from me, fellow Members, to concern you with something that should be an alphabetical truth for you, and that is the situation in the Northwest, the region that is in the largest demographic crisis, the region that is depopulated, which is... I see you're smiling, but the truth is this region, which has the highest unemployment rate, which has the smallest birth rate, which has the largest mortality rate. All of this should be known well enough. I will not go back in history when, here, through the budget for the year in question, crazy projects of the kind have been funded, such as the former closed school in Long Deals. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There is no school there anymore, but there is a wonderful center with some wonderful ballet halls there are no children there, but there is a ballet hall; there is a bodybuilding hall, so millions are broken down, colleagues. I can tell you what the year is! You know very well when this year is. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The proposals, colleagues, I see your joy, have some respect for the people of the Northwest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u351	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u352	My grandfather used to say, "The rich of poor people don't believe, but in this case you should at least hear what the people of the Northwest want. The proposals I have concern municipalities which are represented by mayors of different political forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u353	The majority are from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u354	We start with GERB, we go through the reformers, we go through BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u355	These are quite other mayors...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u356	So here I expect you to think a little bit overparty, because these echoed smiles the people of the Northwest see.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u357	Where do you have mayors?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u358	And BSP has mayors there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u359	Please don't call from the gym, calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u360	There's, there's, open up, you'll see where.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u361	Where, where?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u362	The specific proposals are for money, for funds for the Chitalishte "Izgrev" in Montana. Do I need to talk about the role of the Chitalishtes, one of the few places where something can happen? The second is for Brusartsi, where the mayor is from GERB. It's about renovating the school where children still teach from the municipality. The next is for Medkovets, for Valchedrum, for Lom, for Berkovitsa, where they also need capital expenditure. You understand that in this poor region, your command:.. Raise local taxes and fees.............................................................. to collect more money...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u363	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u364	From these people, you'll take more taxis than...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u365	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u366	...as much as poor man's petals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u367	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u368	Dear colleagues from all parties, I hope you will support our proposal for municipalities in the Montan region. In order not to get what, for example, when on the 6th, we have to with our colleagues, as we have already done, go and talk about the Northwestern Development Programme, which is great, but a programme that is not financially supported is a big nothing. So, colleagues, the chance for something to happen is with what has been voted here and now, and not as is customary at the end of the year with ministerial decrees to give back the same money, but already hidden there, without Parliament knowing, and not to all municipalities. Thank you, I hope you will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u369	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. The word has the popular representative Ivan Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u370	In the manner of conducting the procedure! I want procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u372	I am extremely dissatisfied with the way in which you are leading the sitting and allow here, by this tribune, some MPs to frankly lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u373	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u374	Insinuating untruthful things [[(Applause from GERB and shouting:]] who then repeatedly repeat themselves by the media and by lying to become the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u375	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u376	It's not a lie, it's not a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u377	It's a lie that someone tells the municipalities to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u378	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u379	This someone, if you've looked carefully at his statement, tells the municipalities to collect their taxes. This is what municipalities are supposed to do, not make mistakes for old years, not make amounts that are not paid. [[BSP LB.]] Please, Mr. Chairman, be careful not to allow lies from this high tribune. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u380	The people's representative Ivan Slavov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u381	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The political party ABB parliamentary group submitted a proposal to increase the budget not to the municipalities we represent, but to the Bulgarian municipalities. Our understanding is that municipalities are continuing the policy of the state, only by other means, which is, of course, a prerequisite for our common responsibility to all of us. Our proposal is objective. It refers to an increase in subsidies which must guarantee the full function of municipalities and is divided into several component components. The first part of our proposal is to increase the subsidy for state delegated activities for the simple reason that the standard of maintenance for them has not been changed for five years. This concerns the provision of better education, culture, social and health services. Of course, in this first part we also refer to the need to conduct minimum salaries in view of the changes in the planned budget for next year, as well as the funds provided for the newly formed town halls, which are more than 1000. In the second part of our proposal, we are referring to an increase in the total matching subsidy. It is extremely important for smaller and poorer municipalities. I would say that over the past year we have no precedent, but support for municipalities that have received in themselves subsidies in the order of 200 Our proposal stands behind the support of municipalities in the order of about 115 million. lv. The third part of our proposal concerns the provision of the transfer for winter maintenance and winter conditions to ensure the full functioning of municipalities, which we measure in the order of 25 million. The fourth part of our proposal concerns the fight against disasters, which, at the discretion of the National Association of Municipalities, requires overcoming the consequences of disasters to a total of around 500 million. This means that we must systematically, consistently and prospectively place this feather in our duties. We have no illusions in the easy support of the majority, but we believe that by standing in front of the realities of the problems and evaluating the role of the municipalities, we can at this time accept the support for the responsible persons and for the people who represent our people, part of which we are here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u382	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. For a statement, the people's representative Ahmed Ahmedov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u383	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I expected after the meeting between the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities the two institutions to combine efforts to become more stable and transparent management of public finances in Bulgaria. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms consider with concern the lack of reforms and progress in financial centralisation and the failure in 2015 of the commitments made by municipalities. We strongly object to changes in distribution mechanisms in municipalities without prior coordination with the National Association of Municipalities. This is the way to break art. 9, p. 6 of the European Charter for Local Self-government. Inexplicably, the increase in capital expenditure for winter cleaning in some municipalities, while in the other municipalities in about 100 municipalities, the levels of 2015 are maintained. The increase in municipal funds is necessary, first of all, in order to overcome the lag in standards. They have not been updated since 2010. The increase is also necessary to reflect the increase in the minimum wage. The increase is also necessary for those newly established on the basis of electoral legislation over 1000 mayorships. The proposed increase by the Ministry of Finance in the amount of the matching subsidy does not correspond to the overall increase in the public sector. The total matching subsidy is vital for most municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Honourable Members, I ask you to support the proposals made by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u384	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. The public representative Mr. Philip Popov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have proposed an increase in capital expenditure by about 10% for all eleven municipalities on the territory of Vidin district. I repeat for all eleven because we do not distinguish between blue, red, green and all other colors of rainbow municipalities. For us, they're equal. As the mayor of Bregovo said: "For us people are important between the elections too. " We know that this proposal is insufficient, but it will be a breath of air for those drowning in horrific poverty and the misery of visionary municipalities. I want your sympathy for the people of the Northwest. Obviously, you did not show this to Bulgarian mothers, children with disabilities, to the scientific community and cultural activists, to the pensioners. I don't expect you to show up at the Northwestern municipalities as well. I want you to treat it with respect and respect, to give this part of Bulgaria the opportunity to be a part of the country and not to treat it like the ghetto of Bulgaria! With your purposeful, destructive, murderous policy, you have turned the Northwest and Vidin into a symbol of murderous poverty, of unemployment, of deserted houses and buildings, of ghost villages and cities. With this policy you took the dignity, hope and bread from the table of the people of Vidin region, because there is nothing worthy and encouraging in selling their fields and asking for help from the mayors so that they can bury their relatives and relatives. Yes, fellow Members, in the Vidin municipalities the picture is so terrifying and grotesque! We are all aware that only with European programmes the municipalities of Vidin cannot get their development, to catch up with the rest of Bulgaria, because we know that there are no people left to write, protect and implement these projects. Without targeted assistance through the state budget, these municipalities will be liquidated and then you can declare Northwestern Bulgaria a reservation, a museum for the achievements of your policy! Dear Members of Parliament, do not deceive people with fictional strategies that will not happen! Now is the moment when you can help with Vidin's share and the Northwest. In this case, the case is identified by simply pressing the green button on our proposal. I say that the people of Vidin and Northwest Bulgaria deserve it, that municipalities deserve it! Because, dear colleagues, they are not bad material, they are not second-hand people! Don't turn Northwest and Vidin into a reservation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u386	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. For speech there is the word Krasimir Bogdanov. After him the people representative Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u387	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Outside the emotions and attempts to present the Northwest as some sort of spooky place, let's not forget that people live there, too. Let's not make such a bad commercial for our region. We have concrete proposals that we have received with colleague Yavor Haytov after numerous meetings with the mayors and communities from the localities in the municipalities. They are many times more than what we have done as a proposal for budget corrections. We have decided on three of the most important things that are presented as urgent needs for next year. First of all, in the municipality of Oryahovo and in the entire Danube region, the towns of Doubwish, there has always been a problem with snow cleaning and snowing during the winter months of the year. For this reason, we believe that the means of winter maintenance and snow cleaning should be increased. On the other hand, the water cycle project of Kozloduy has recently been completed, where a lot of finishing work remains, and the infrastructure of the city is not in good condition. We therefore believe that the improvement of infrastructure as a result of this project should be helped. Last but not least, it is known to everyone that last year the Northwestern region and Vrachanski suffered the most as a result of the disaster flood that has befallen us. Although without sacrificing, Krivodol municipality is one of the most damaged municipalities in the region. We therefore believe that the funds relating to flood prevention should be increased. We've offered appropriate amounts. The government has repeatedly declared the desire to work for the Northwest. It was also taken as a priority in the Programme of the current government. In our opinion, this thing should be witnessed in practice and not in words only! Naturally, first steps were taken in a positive direction. A kind of lobbyist is organized in the good sense of the word group of all lawmakers from the Northwestern region who participated in several forums. However, we must continue in this direction. I believe that the support for the proposal I am making right now will reaffirm once again the government's desire to work in this direction. It is clear, without going into more detail, what is the economic situation of the Northwest. I therefore call on the Members of the National Assembly to stand behind our proposals once again and to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u388	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u389	Dear colleague, when I talk about the Northwest and Vidin, yes, I always talk emotionally and I will continue to talk emotionally! Because it's not bad advertising, but through the experience you're doing here, under the pretext of bad advertising, which I just said in my speech, you want to cover up the truth about the Northwest. The truth is terrifying! There's over 70% unemployment there! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] More than 70% of the children in the Northwest are not going to start first grade, colleague! That's the truth about the Northwest! All possible goods that the previous government had foreseen have been taken from the Northwest. [[(Laughter, applause and cheering:]] Yes, yes, they were taken away because customs were exported, and Irritated systems were exported from Vidin. The road under Operational Programme "Transport" "Sofia" was terminated, although it was included in the Programme 2014 "2020." Dimovo's tour of Ruzhintsi was also terminated. You put a cross to chemistry and 500 people because that was probably the problem of Bulgarian energy?! That's Northwestern policy. That's not bad publicity. That's the reality, and the people there know it. It is also good for you to learn it when you talk about the Northwest and talk more about it because you are a member of this region!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u390	Second line.. Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u391	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Stop saying the same thing! Colleague [[turns to MP Krasimir Bogdanov]] I agree with you on those things you say. We need to lobby for the polls, whichever one we are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u392	But you don't have to agree with him, you're making a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u393	Nothing, I'll say now. But we have to go back a little bit to ask where those were. 500 million. BGN, which you gave out to make small stadiums, playgrounds in villages where there are no children, sports playgrounds for 50-60-100 thousand! Five hundred million leva went down the drain! You could've given it to the Northwestern development! Twenty-seven million leva from the Sports Ministry. We must remember very well what happened before that, before we shed crocodile tears from here! [[Laughter, single applause and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u394	Third line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u395	Dear Mr. Chairman, ministers gentlemen, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u396	Colleague, you and Mr. Bogdanov should get started.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u397	Dear Mr. Bogdanov, there is clearly no such program and this understanding that you are talking about and that you are all pleading here. We've heard of a program that's public-interested from this tribune. Let me ask: Mr. Bogdanov, you know what is included in the capital expenditure, which is increased by 1 billion. 800 million. lv.? You know what? Let's find out because instead of financing what municipalities want instead of financing what we're all talking about, someone signed a serious check and will only be distributed these funds when they knock on the right door. And this door, we all know who it is, unfortunately. And that's what we're told by this tall tribune. That's what we're told. This is the way. This is our democracy. This is the way the public resource will be distributed. The resource that provides all these people who have sent us here, me and you. And with all the insolence you stand on this stand and talk about a 500 million-dollar program that was by the book. And now, Mr. Bogdanov, the governors want to distribute over 2 billion completely opaque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u398	Why is he making a line to Karayancheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u399	Mr. Bogdanov, come on in for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u400	Dear colleagues, who have replicated me, I will not read now and say what the government's estimated costs are, I just want to convince you of the rightness of my words and I said not to react emotionally. As you have seen, I have made proposals that are neither in line with the Commission nor adopted by the majority. So my opinion of the Northwest has always been what it is. I don't know why you reacted so strongly to my speech. Probably driven by political passions or some precongress intentions of yours. That's your problem, not mine. One thing I can say to you is that I will support the proposals that concern the Northwestern region and not just the region of Vratsa, so thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u401	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. For a statement there is the national representative Dora Yankova. After that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u402	I have a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u403	Excuse me, Mr. Haytov. You have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u404	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, since my colleague Bogdanov mentioned me by name. I really ask you, honourable Members, to support our proposal. Reading all the proposals carefully, I can draw your attention to the fact that this is the only proposal signed by three MPs from two parliamentary groups. We are really driven by the desire to help our municipalities, notice, with some amounts that I would say sound funny on the common background, because it is about support between 50 and 100 thousand. lv. to municipalities like Oryahovo, like Kozloduy. And here for colleagues from GERB I want to say that there the mayors are from GERB and won on the first round. Of course, we want your support for Roman municipalities, Krivodol, also again for sums of about 50 to 100 thousand. lv. So we're counting on your support. We are really talking about a minimal aid for small municipalities, which need a little more support and assistance from the government and each of the MPs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u405	Please. I didn't understand what you were affected by by the people's representative Mr. Bogdanov, but it doesn't matter, I must be the problem. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u406	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u407	Procedure? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see some people get hotter than they need to. Plus, it's good to remind you that the local elections passed a month ago. Now who has lied to the voters about what money they will receive, knowing that they will not be able to provide them is his problem, which is why I want a procedure to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u409	Back proposal, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u410	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! I'm deeply embarrassed by your proposal, Mr. Bayraktarov, because I don't know if you have a mayor anywhere, so you haven't had a chance to promise him anything, but right now someone's using you as a curling iron. He uses you as a curling iron so that, as the colleague said just now, the people do not understand that there is no object behind these 2 billion, and the proposals given by colleagues concern specific problems for the people, specific problems of the municipalities that they have to deal with. I don't want to remind you here about the miserable municipal roads that have been the main assumer of the capital expenditures that, through the delegated budgets, are given to the municipalities. And here, Mr. Bayraktarov, you want to make a little pink mist of the people that, you see, we, who didn't promise, won nothing. Here are the three colleagues from GERB from my district, the two are from Asenovgrad, the other is from Perushtitsa, but we are still from the Seventeenth, to break the party discipline and to vote on our proposals....... because these are not our party proposals, these are not our party promises. And it is no accident that we have proposed to the municipalities that are expected to be discriminated against by the government. I repeat one more time. So support the people living there, colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u411	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to end the debates under art. 50. Please vote. Vote 127 MPs: for 93, against 31, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u412	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u414	Dear Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because in the supposedly reverse motion of a Member of the National Assembly has allowed himself to utter insults, nonsense and lies. I'm just gonna give you a simple answer, dear Mr. Genov. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u415	To me, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u416	Very simple: the growth of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria in these elections is 56%. That's the result. And your height is a dwarf.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u417	It's negative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u418	So when you talk... [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u419	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u420	Mr. Popov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u421	Thank you. Dear Madam President, please turn your attention to my colleague Bajraktarov that he should first learn the rules in order to know how to break them properly. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u422	I didn't know you had to know the rules to break them. I thought the rules were known to be respected, Mr. Popov. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mrs. Dora Yankova's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Did everyone get a vote? Did those who were right vote? Mr. Ivanov, did you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u423	Yeah. Is someone working on the console? [[Radio.]] They voted 139 MPs: 42, against 61, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u424	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I couldn't vote. I saw a lot of colleagues in the hallway who couldn't exercise their right to vote. So I'm asking you to invite them to vote! They vote for those people who chose them. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u425	It's a re-vote. And I invite you to stay in the hall, not the door frame of the hallway. They voted 132 MPs: 44, against 67, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Yankova's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 136 MPs: 44, against 60, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the gentlemen Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 135 MPs: 41, against 63, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on Mr. Emile Raynov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 140 MPs: 52, against 59, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Miho Mihov and a group. The Commission does not support it. Vote 138 MPs: 44, Against 41, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov an unsupported proposal. [[Reply from the hall.]] By Shumen BSP left Bulgaria. They voted 133 MPs: 39, against 59, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mrs. Nino's proposal and Mr. Stoychev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 135 MPs: 43, against 48, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on Mr. Vigenin's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 134 MPs: 42, against 53, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Manol Genov and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 133 MPs: 45, against 50, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Ms. Mariana Boyadjieva's proposal. The Commission does not support it. Vote 127 MPs: 34 against 42, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Mikov and Mr. Popov's proposal. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 41, against 51, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 122 MPs: 38, against 43, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u426	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u427	To what, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u428	On the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u429	You have five votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u430	Five votes, apparently one of those five is you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u431	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against it because reformers are extreme hypocrites. [[Laughter]] They participate in the government, support their ministers in the government, contribute the budget, support it at first reading and now, barbar with the opposition, and they offer something. You will tire the population of laughter, dear rulers, who are constantly distinguished from the government budget you support. Thank you. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] That is why we will no longer vote on your proposals. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u432	I'm voting on Mr. Chobanov's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 130 MPs: 40, against 42, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 133 MPs: 40, against 53, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 134 MPs: 44, against 46, abstentioned 44. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. In fact, these are proposals from Mr. Haytov, Bogdanov and Kovachev for the district of Vratsa for Oryahovo, Kozloduy, Krivodol and Roman. One of us voted, now we vote enblock three. They voted 127 MPs: 44, against 38, abstention 45. The proposals have not been accepted. Vote art. 50 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 108, against 32, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mrs. Dora Yankova. Second negative, Chetin Kazak, third, Ivan Ivanov from Shumen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u433	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister, Madame Minister! Members of Parliament, I voted against it because there was a clear agreement in this House to change budgetary relations with municipalities. With the exception of GERB party all political forces, all MPs had the inner conviction and proposals to change and to be other budgetary relations with the Bulgarian municipalities. I'm sure you'll be giving out of these two billion dollars to the municipalities as well. I appeal to the Minister at least after the construction of the Association of Municipalities find a way to separate some of these 2 billion for the Bulgarian municipalities, but to have the municipalities self-confidence that the funds are also used under the Local Government Act. Because now what we said: we will not give you the money to debate it through the municipal councils and distribute it, and they will come to you through the state budget with the blessing of certain or political persons, or respectively the government, depending on who treats it. It was not a coincidence that the philosophy of BSP left Bulgaria, us and our colleagues from DPS to form another type of budgetary relations. I therefore voted against it because I understood that there is a mood for municipalities in this House and, ultimately, a framework that has put the municipalities in place right now for the 25-year transition at the lowest level gives us reason to be dissatisfied. This blockage of the debate, especially on a municipal topic, was indecent of fellow Members who asked for it, so with great indignation I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u434	Mr. Kazak, will you share your negative vote with us? You've given up. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u435	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, Minister of Finance, honourable Members! I voted against it because, first of all, the debate on municipalities was blocked. A debate that had to take place at a time when municipalities needed the most to be supported by the state budget. I voted against it because today and yesterday a blank check was signed from 2 billion, which is not known how it will be spent by the state, which municipalities and how. I voted against it because the proposal I had made for the municipality of Shumen was not accepted. Do you know what it's like for three months that citizens can't bathe? Don't they drink water? Can't they bathe with this water? There is no other way to finance such a project, except through the state budget, which the state is obliged to give to the citizens of Shumen. I am making this proposal, given that now the mayor in Shumen is from GERB. I was his opponent. I had the dignity to make this proposal for Sumerians. I regret that the other colleagues who are here from Shumen did not support the proposal. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let Sumerians understand this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u436	They also remember who's run them so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u437	He ran BSP, Madam President, now runs GERB. However, I am making a proposal in this budget to give money for Shumen's Drinking Water Cleaning Station, but you rejected this proposal and adopted a restrictive budget in relation to municipalities. You have done one punishment to the citizens of Shumen municipality. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They were punished, I don't know why? Perhaps because they elected a mayor from GERB in this term. In this vote, with this budget, this money should be given to Shumen, because this is the only chance. This is indeed a restrictive budget with regard to municipalities. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Minister, let's say here in front of us how will he give money to these municipalities to the right ones, to the wrong ones? That is why I voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u438	Thank you. Mr. Merdjanov, third negative vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] Mr. Merdjanov, you're Mr. Kazak's spokesperson. And I invited him, but he doesn't want to, Mr. Merdjanov. And I'm disappointed he doesn't want to take a negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Kazak. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u439	Let's lighten up a little bit. I would like to address the government and the Minister of Finance with a quote from a former Bulgarian statesman. Because you don't give enough money to municipalities or other state bodies and institutions to solve the long-standing problems [[GERB's noisy, speech and laughter]] I would like to quote to you a former statesman who has said wisely: "You can only decide who has money! " [[Laughter and excitement.]] If you have no money, what will you decide?! You have no right to decide! [[Laughter, excitement and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u440	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 51 to 55 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u441	We are voting on these articles. Vote 116 MPs: 95, against 18, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u442	Article 56 supposed by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs in art. 56 the number The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs in art. The 56th number of "240' is replaced by "300'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs in art. 56 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs in art. The 56th number of "240' is replaced by "300'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs in art. The 56th number of "240' is replaced by "300'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 56: Art. 56. Confirms a total annual quota for the provision of food vouchers under art. No. 209, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u443	Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u444	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, now that the passions have calmed down, it is appropriate to really think about an effective social policy that is being carried out precisely in this way. In fact, the preferences given by art. 209 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax are the most meaningful way to conduct social policy and it, pay attention to obtaining tax reliefs for people who are extremely exemplary, working people since before para. 7 there are six more paragraphs which treat all the conditions under which a worker/worker can receive food vouchers. Now I wonder where the left social party is at the front and the back, because there are five people and their minister was moaning here this morning, and now there are five left...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u445	Please, Mr. Bayraktarov, let's continue to listen to good manners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u446	I'm taking a note. He wasn't whining, complaining. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u447	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u448	In the other part of 37 "8" there are still 5 "6" and they claim social policy. This is the way and approach to social policy. We believe that 260 million, as the Commission has adopted, is insufficient.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u449	You should not be ungrateful to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u450	I think the increase to 300 million, what we've done, is good. I invite you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal because, see, supporting this proposal, many people may not realize it, but this, firstly, leads to mechanisms for lightening the economy. The second thing, these are mechanisms other than purely social, which lead to revenue in the budget. Until revenues are mainly in the budget of the NHIF and in the budget of the NHIF, and you know that there the deficit is quite serious in the order of 4 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. If you have forgotten, to remind you that the transfer is so from the state, but it is also covered by taxpayers, so one 40 million. BGN, which, in fact, notice, do not damage the budget by 40 million. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is going to be about financially. 4 million. BGN, with which it will be, so to speak, harmful part of the budget, but they will bring much more revenue. I'm convinced of that thing. I'm sure the Finance Minister understands that, and he'll back me up on that. Three hundred million will bring more revenue, remember it, greater than 4 million practical damage to the budget in quotes damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u451	Any other MPs? Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u452	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this proposal, we show that we are pursuing a consistent policy. I recall that in Budget 2014 the quota was extended from 180 to 240, but in the name of the consensus that we have reached in the Commission, I withdraw our proposal. We will support the 260 million-dollar offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u453	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Any other MPs? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u454	We maintain our offer of an increase to 300 million. I appeal to my colleague Bajraktarov, the strongest way for a party to prove that it is left, social and holds its positions, is when it rules and when it is in opposition, to be of the same opinion. And when he rules, to do what he claims to do when he's in opposition. The last time the vouchers were increased was in the last government of BSP. As my colleague said, from 180 to 240 million. This is proof of consistent left and social policy, not your support for the government, vote the budget at first reading, and now, as Mr. Mikov said, hypocritically cry that your proposals do not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u455	- What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u456	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Ninova, I will accept your speech as sincere if, within the remaining two minutes of the vote of 8 people from BSP, you become at least 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u457	There's ten of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u458	Is it ten? Okay. Become at least 38 to really see that you are consistent. Because this sequence is also clear to young children. You have to vote 36 37 your MPs, and they are by chance 10-15. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u459	Now you're gonna hear about the sequence!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u460	Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u461	(BSP LB): I usually avoid getting into an argument with Mr. Bayraktarov because the level is very low, but... [[Laughter]] I'll answer him now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u462	Colleagues, I'm asking you to stick to good manners. We're looking at the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u463	What goes around comes around. There's a Bulgarian saying. Mr. Bayraktarov, you are not the man who will keep track of how many people from BSP are here! But since you're talking about consistency, let me tell you about your consistency. In the Commission, you voted against the IPO budget, and in this House you personally and all the other 14 supported it. That's two days apart. Hey, that's what I call consistency!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u464	The debate is closed. [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u465	Mr. Mikov, we can't miss to hear from you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u466	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Madam Minister! Dear MPs, we from BSP left Bulgaria will in no way support the proposal made by the false Patriots led by Bajraktarov. Should I explain why they're false patriots or save it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u467	No, it's identical to yours, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u468	That's what I was gonna tell you. Because they first copy other people's suggestions. I'll explain why they're false patriots. Secondly, they support the budget at first reading, that is, they lie to their partners, they lie to their allies from ABB, they lie to the reformers, they lie to you, from GERB. Then they want to lie to Bulgarian citizens. On such false patriots, proposals should not be supported at all. First they copy from other parliamentary groups, and then they lie to their partners. That is why BSP left Bulgaria from here to the end will not support any proposal of the false Patriots in our parliament. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u469	Personal explanation of Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u470	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking a personal explanation about the untruths being exported. Take a look at who cheats from whom. In fact, the proposal tabled was first tabled by the Patriotic Front. It wasn't the Patriotic Front who cheated from the gentlemen, but they cheated from the Patriotic Front. The second explanation, which is good for me to do, is for the other lie that has been told, I repeat, a lie! Mr. Bayraktarov is consistent. There's a transcript. See if Mr. Bayraktarov has supported the DOO's budget. So when you're lying from this tribune, at least check your facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u471	And Mr. Karakachanov will participate in the debate with a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u472	Madam President, honourable Members! After all, we are looking at a budget that is a serious point in Parliament's work. I call on you, Madam President, not to allow any of the Members of the National Assembly to rise up and insult others. Regarding false patriots or so-what you are in your recent history, both formations forming the Patriotic Front have always defended very clear patriotic principles. If we are talking about some false ideas, then probably BSP are false socialists because there are the most millionaires in Bulgaria. During their reign it became Bulgaria's biggest defeat. [[Private applause by GERB and PF.]] These citizens, who are now crying for, have become impoverished right during their governments. And if we're talking about patriotism, I don't know where your patriotism was when you hug twice and make a coalition with a party like DPS. That's in terms of lying. Please, Mr. Mikov, be so kind as to respect his colleagues, because Parliament is not for one day. And when we speak, let's give arguments, not qualifications to this one or that one, especially ideas. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u473	Colleagues, I have always adhered, and in today's sitting, I have made a few remarks about the expressions that the Members of the National Assembly use. [[People representatives Krasimir Karakachanov and Hasan Ademov have a lively conversation.]] Tiredness and tension are few, but let's not go out of our way. Mr. Mikov, a personal explanation, no matter how it is mentioned. That's why I'm warning you and it's affected. Mr. Mikov, I ask you in your personal explanation not to affect third parties, Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u474	No way, Madam President. When I talk about lying patriots, I think I don't concern anyone because they swear they're real. Isn't that right? I don't affect them in any way. They support a government that, including Malta, has made commitments for the establishment of new refugees in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u475	Your personal explanation, Mr. Mikov! You're in a procedure for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u476	At the same time, they support this government, and we in the Socialist Party will continue to expose them when there are such situations. That's what I want to explain. [[Relations in PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u477	The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 116 MPs: 18, against 52, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 119 MPs: 19 against 34, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 123 MPs: 23, against 70, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of Mr. Mestan and a group of MPs has been withdrawn, colleagues, and for this reason I am not putting it to the vote. I shall put to the vote art. 56 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: for 104, against 17, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u478	The Commission shall support the import text for art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u479	You want procedure in the manner of conduct. Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Ermenkov wishes to make an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u480	Madam President, honourable Members, I have especially waited for a vote. This happened before the vote, but I still wanted us not to be watered down between voting and reading. I ask you very much to make a remark to Mr. Genov of the Patriotic Front that he is not at the stadium and here in Parliament is not the place where red trash should be called. Thank you very much. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u481	If he has dignity, he'll repeat whether he said it or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u482	Colleagues, I am making a remark to all MPs. That's the second time I've turned around in five minutes! Please refrain from saying anything that offends us. Hate language is not the language we need to demonstrate when voting on the Budget Act. Mrs. Stoyanova, are you going to report or not? There are several supported texts 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u483	Article 59 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 59 to be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60, which becomes art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u484	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's support to the vote. Art. 57, Art. 58 anbloc. Vote 113 MPs: 100 against 11, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to drop art. 59 by importer. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 59, which becomes art. 60 by importer after the drop out of the previous one. From now on, the members will go with a changed numbering. Vote art. 59 on the Commission report. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u485	Article 61 s a proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 61 para. 1 is amended as follows: The average annual income referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be calculated as follows: 4 of the Family Aid Act for children 2016 is: 350 BGN. from 1 January. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 61, para. 13 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: 4 of the Family Aid Act for children 2016 is 400 BGN.. (b) in para. 2: c. BGN 37 is amended to BGN 40 is amended as follows: - T. 2 the sum of BGN 85 is amended to BGN 90 - T. 3 the sum of BGN 130 is amended to BGN140 - T. 4 the sum of BGN140 is amended to BGN180 and the sum of BGN 20 is amended to BGN 40. (c) in para. 7, p. 3 the sum of BGN 300 is amended by BGN 600 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 61, which becomes art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u486	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. I'd like to ask you to sit somewhere further, so we don't waste any time until you're on the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u487	Thank you, Madam President. The increase in the threshold for obtaining children's supplements of 350 BGN. £400. is another blow, again, on exemplary families. What is achieved by this threshold? I'm not going to turn left because they said they were antisocial anyway. I will turn to the majority in hopes that they will at least understand what is being done with increasing this threshold. Dear colleagues, there are officially registered one million and two hundred thousand children in Bulgaria. Of them 400,000 children do not receive the so-called children's supplements in the amount of already BGN 37 after the adoption of this law as a first child, 85 for two children and so on. By lifting this threshold from 350 to 400 BGN. In fact, about 100,000 more children who live and work mostly in small settlements, where remuneration, first, is in the order of that value, i.e. these parents will lose the opportunity to receive children's supplements for raising their children. Moreover, with these so-called successful marginal societies that have turned the birth of children into business and created a problem, a phenomenon of children give birth to children, which stains Bulgaria's name all over the world. I appeal to you in the hope that you will show common sense today, not to harm 100,000 Bulgarian children who have all the rights and under the Convention, with this administrative, antisocial measure, which should not be supported and adopted. Our proposal is to remain the old threshold of 350 BGN. to a family member because he's still just being fair. I will not go back to the fact that we had tabled a bill which was extremely useful, but, unfortunately, was rejected in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. I'm going to ask you again: show some sense! We don't have to hurt 100,000 children. You don't have to! The other option is for their parents to switch to the gray economy so they can join these thresholds and be able to practically receive this money. This is a huge loss for both fissure and economy in general. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u488	The line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u489	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I am very tense to listen to you, with interest to understand and I cannot understand who is the addressee of your passionate speech. Your coalition is quadruple. I heard Mr. Parvanov doesn't want to be a fifth wheel, but you're his third wheel hard. If you have such intentions and when you are a coalition, discuss them and monolithically defend this common policy that the government conducts. Otherwise, you're campaigning for something good for the kids. We will do it, but your coalition partners won't do it, and these passionate speeches don't make any sense. Therefore, lead an active coalition policy, join together around what is more social and you propose, you will pass with less speeches and with better results than your policy. And so you talked a little, who heard you heard you, who didn't hear you and became what GERB had in mind. They keep quiet, they keep quiet, they don't talk, they don't do what they want, and you yell and serve them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u490	Second line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u491	Madam President, honourable Members! Colleague Bajraktarov, just a moment ago from the tribune, full of nonsense and complete delusion. You can't count. Apparently, you had a couple in math because by raising the threshold for families to access family benefits that means that 10,000. families with children will have the right to receive family benefits from July 1st. [[Relations from the MP Mihail Mikov.]] You can't count. I will give an example: until now the threshold was 350 BGN. a member of the family for access to family benefits for children. That is, if we have a three-member family, the maximum income they can receive for the access of this aid is BGN 1050. As of July 1st, we're increasing the threshold. This means that this three-member family, which receives up to BGN 1200 and not BGN 1050, will be entitled to receive family benefits for children. So there's a range of 150 BGN. You're full of shit, you're making a fool of yourself from this tribune. That shows your unpreparedness and, how can I say... bullshit. [[Applause from BSP LB, noise and glad tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u492	Well, no! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u493	I apologize! I apologize, but you're just overreacting, Mr. Bayraktarov, with the delusions you're giving the MPs. You think that by standing on this stand and just talking about certain competences. [[noise and lines]] , any...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u494	Your apology is accepted, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u495	No, I'm just outraged that Mr. Bayraktarov...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u496	Is there a third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u497	... is constantly deceiving the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u498	We're not fooled, we're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u499	... instead of sitting down, reading and actually telling not only the MPs, but also the citizens what is for families with children and what is not. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u500	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova, the time has passed. Third line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u501	Dear Mr. Bojinov, I have deep respect for you and I will say with dissatisfaction that you are right about what you said that no one actually wants to listen, no one wants to see. As far as math is concerned, who's got what grade? I graduated with full honors not one or two higher educations. [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] . I'll go on and on, but I'll keep the gentleman's tone...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u502	For which I thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u503	... of an answer in her dorm, because I think it would be inappropriate for a lady to speak such a language.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u504	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u505	The facts I've laid out will ultimately show who was right. When facts speak, as an old Bulgarian proverb says, the gods are silent. Glad you're not gods at least, but I'll say something else. You, my lady Angelova, have introduced some reliefs under art. 23c, which supposedly had to relieve Bulgarian families and calculate them in millions if memory serves, several million. Your mathematics to date indicates that the reliefs for these Bulgarian families are equal to zero. That's what you think. What I've said, I stand by my words, and since there are very accurate statistics in 8, 9 months we'll see who was right, we'll see who was telling the truth and we'll see who was fooling people. Here, this is the simple simple truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u506	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Ermenkov, last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u507	Dear Madam President, honourable Members as the co-ordinator of the proposal of a group of MPs from the Bulgarian Socialist Party I will try again to sharpen your attention to what we want to propose for an amendment in art. 61, para. 13, as recorded here the number..240.. is replaced by. 294......................................................................................................................................................... However, this is not about a number here, but it is about those children with disabilities that I have had the opportunity to talk to you about already. I know the train is almost gone now, but let's try to catch the last door of the last wagon! Let's think about what this is all about, remember that even the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy was here and didn't say anything against these numbers. He said one single thing supposed in the future a time to ever make some policy in this regard, but by this future time these children must live. The problems of their parents are not tomorrow, I will have a future indefinitely, but are today, now, now. That's why I'm asking you one more time: let's give this 7 million away, it's not much! At these notorious 2.5 billion investment costs, it's overrated, not even that much. I therefore ask you one more time: give us a vote, support this proposal! This also helps the budget, because the more money remains and is given to families with children with disabilities, the less risk these children being abandoned and hanging on the budget. I think Mrs. Angelova will agree with me here that the more money we give parents who agree to watch their children with disabilities, the less risk they are to be abandoned and taken to institutions. I think we used to work this together with her. That is why I am asking you one more time: support this proposal of ours! Children with disabilities and their parents will be grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u508	Thank you. There are no other MPs who wish to speak. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 101 MPs: 10, against 26, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 117 MPs: 30, against 22, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Kenov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 120 MPs: 18 against 16, 86 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 61 by importer, supported by the Commission, with a new numbering art. 60 on the report. They voted 121 MPs: 94, against 23, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u509	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62, which becomes Art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u510	We vote. They voted 111 MPs: 99, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u511	Under art. 63 has a proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 63, which becomes Art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u512	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u513	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal that we have made from the Patriotic Front is to reduce the party's contribution to something that no political force has found the courage to do for years. Of course it will be rejected because it is easier to stand the money the Bulgarian people and taxpayers pay for deposits to buy expensive limos, to keep secretaries, and I do not know what kind of party apparatus. It is harder to look at the ordinary Bulgarian people who are not obliged to pay these huge subsidies and these extras of known and unknown party leaders. So if you are really very smart now, you should approach the Bulgarian people with a look. The same people who sent you here and who paid us our salaries and who watched you all day long shit, because if you thought too much, you would think about the Bulgarian pensioners, you would think about the Bulgarian mothers, only you obviously don't care about that. All you care about is election time. That's the truth. It's the truth! Now separate from your subsidy to show that you are truly worthy Bulgarian politicians. Let me see you now!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u514	To make a statement there is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u515	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! I fully support the idea and the proposal of the importer to reduce the state subsidy from 11,00 to 6,00 BGN. Last year at the same time I submitted the same proposal with the idea of the state subsidy being BGN 5.00. Why do I support the importer's proposal? First of all, because it's part of the election program on the Patriotic Front. Secondly, because the average subsidy to the European Union is two and a half euros, i.e. BGN 5.00. and it is quite normal for the poorest country in the European Union to comply with at least the average level for the European Union. For comparison, I'm going to say something I said last year, but obviously some things need to be repeated. In Germany, to accept, the most developed in economic, financial terms of a country in the European Union and perhaps in the world, the state subsidy for a political party that received more than 1% in parliamentary elections is one euro or two leva. In the poorest country, perhaps in Europe poorer than Bulgaria, the Republic of Macedonia, to put it this way, the state subsidy is the same as in the Federal Republic of Germany. Here, of course, the importer has made, perhaps without realizing, one mistake. When it is proposed in the state budget to reduce money by one feather, it should be indicated where this saved money should go.............................................................................................. lv. Last year I proposed it and it is to go to the pension fund for the additional pension, for which Minister Goranov claims every year that with great effort he finds this money and why not to increase pensions and pensioners with incomes of over 300 BGN, but this is the less trouble. More importantly, as Mr. Bayraktarov said just now, how will you vote in a moment. Perhaps this is the most important moral vote when we talk about Budget 2016. Because now it will be seen how the parties look at what money they receive, as some parties, and especially the biggest party in this Parliament, the Party GERB, in recognition of its President Mr. Borisov last year, September, only a month before the parliamentary elections, said that Party GERB currently has a deposit, I think, in two banks around 100-105 million. lv. [[Sighs:.]] And then he was outraged. [[noise and lines]] I quote Prime Minister Borisov's opinion from last year... [[Noise and lines.]] And then, for good reason, Mr. Borisov "outraged" may be a strong word, made the remark that such a really large subsidy is insane and should be considered for its reduction. Naturally, you did not listen to his call last year, but now from your coalition partner, the Patriotic Front, you could listen, which would really be a good deed. In a moment, there will be, I say, the most important vote in moral, political terms for this Parliament, whether some parties, the biggest parties, become, and they have already become banks, or split with the party subsidy that goes for social needs and we join the average level for the European Union. I stress that the average level in the European Union is two and a half euros, not as some populist propose, a complete liquidation of the state subsidy "zero leva" for political parties. Indeed, parties must be subsidized so that they do not depend on internal and economic factors and some, as we know, on external geopolitical factors. But this subsidy must comply with the standard of living in Bulgaria. I repeat, the poorest country in the European Union is not normal, it is not moral to have the highest state subsidy for a party that received in parliamentary elections over 1%. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u516	There are no speakers. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Simeonov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 97 MPs: 21, against 26, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 63 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 62 on the report. Vote 97 MPs: 79, against 15, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u517	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 64, which becomes Art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u518	We vote. Vote 98 MPs: 89 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u519	In the proposal of the MPs Lutvi Mestan and a group in art. 65 the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssss,sssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 65, which becomes art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u520	Statements? Mr. Chobanov. You're going to withdraw the offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u521	No, how am I going to withdraw it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u522	You're not going to withdraw it? Okay...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u523	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Our proposal also relates to the increase in debt. You know that in the introduction of the fiscal reserve after the introduction of the Currency Board in Bulgaria in 1997 in the first years it had to be written in a law minimum level of the fiscal reserve. At the beginning, it was calculated as the annual payments or, more precisely, the debt service, which, I recall, exceeded 120% of gross domestic product. Since the balance sheet of the Bulgarian National Bank is public, it is practically published every day in one of the Bank's publications and otherwise officially on a weekly basis, everyone can monitor how the level of government deposit is moving in the Central Bank, which is part of the fiscal reserve. That is, this signal function, if we want to apply it now, the increase in debt requires that we increase a little and this minimum level of the fiscal reserve to show that we continue to be stable, that the state has fiscal reserves and that it can service its debt calmly, which will be a good signal for everyone who evaluates us on international financial markets. I believe that the level of debt, as indicated for next year, would allow this. If it would not allow, we have not yet voted on the debt, so we can make the appropriate adjustment if necessary there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u524	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I'm voting on Mr. Mestan's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 116 MPs: 22, against 49, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 65 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 64. They voted 102 MPs: 88 against 9, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u525	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, which becomes Art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u526	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u527	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the previous text we entered the territory of the big numbers of this budget and sometimes people seem to be more impressed than small values and we often use heated debates for a million or two for several hundred thousand leva. We are already talking about how the state should commit within billions of levs. This text is very short, but it sets the maximum amount of government debt by the end of 2016 at the amount of 26,6 billion. lv. I also address the Minister of Finance because I know that some of these funds are justified. But in my opinion, we should not exceed the mandatory costs that should cover the budget deficit and the payments that Bulgaria must make next year. Therefore, in absolute terms, the deficit planned by the Budget Act is 1.8 billion. lv. We need to add 1.3 billion to them. lv. I think that's how much Bulgaria has to pay under old debt obligations, which makes 3.1 billion. lv. I believe that in order for the budget of 26.6 billion to be stable, we need to subtract 3.1 billion, and I propose that the amount should be 23.5 billion as a correction of this number. lv. the maximum amount of government debt. Otherwise, more than 2 billion remain. BGN, which the budget did not predict exactly what costs will go for. These are funds which, if it were claimed that they must be provided, need to be written down whether they would provide an increase in economic growth, whether they would go for any social payments, whether they would support municipalities. But since we are already reaching critical levels of the rate of increase in debt, I think it is unacceptable every year between 5 billion and 6 billion. lv. Bulgaria should be in debt as you predicted in the 3-year budget and financial forecast. In our country it is still said that the level of debt will reach 30%, i.e. it is well below the level of European criteria. However, if we compare the pace of economic growth and the rate of debt, we fall into the conditions of a great financial uncertainty and do not bet results that will feel like an economic and social impact. These are some of the key provisions of this budget. So far, we have discussed very important issues on individual revenue and expenditure items, but here is a text on which significant funds can be saved, and this without damaging the main indicators in the budget voted. If the Minister of Finance wants, he can react to this discussion because it is essential and actually shows where the hidden funds are in this budget and where are the costs for which we believe there is no reasoned argument to make this budget transparent, to make it stable and to convince the Bulgarian citizens that it is a development budget, and not as they say, a budget of opportunities, as you understand them, but not a budget that makes some impetus in the development of the country. Therefore, my proposal, Madam President, concerns the following proposals, even these issues are put even more strongly, but what I am doing here for editing numbers expresses a completely constructive and balanced approach if we take this discussion seriously. What has changed is that I would like to finish with this from everything we have discussed up to here is the reduction of the amount of farmers provided to 300 BGN. If the criterion for a good budgetary procedure is no number and no lev should change in the budget when it is discussed in Parliament by what the government has introduced, I think you can consider this almost as excellent so far. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But if you don't look and react to such questions, it means that we just vote without discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u528	Could you just repeat your offer in art. 66?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u529	It's the number of $26.6 billion. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is a need for State aid in the form of State aid to be Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u530	Mr. Secretary, you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u531	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoilov! What you're saying is very much true. But not really! Where is it not true what you say? It is true that in the size of the fiscal reserve, in the amount of the maximum amount of government debt there are buffers. It is not true that they are unnecessary and it is not true that they should not be predicted. If you look at art. 67 and you analyze its logic, you will probably agree that next year we should not fall into the situation that we were put into in 2014. Then, when for one reason or another, there were no liquidity buffers in the budget and the failures in the financial system, in this case the bankruptcy of CCB, put us in front of a liquid crisis for the budget. The account for the maximum amount of the new government debt in 2016 has been made so that, apart from the deficit that you correctly mentioned as a nominal amount, plus the damages, is a number lower than the possible maximum amount of the new government debt. What you are either missing or saving in the explanation is that not a single lev of new government debt or stock on the fiscal reserve can be spent outside the voting parameters of the spending part of the state budget and the constituent of the consolidated fiscal programme, budgets. If it turns out that, in 2016, we do not have to use liquidity buffers for financing operations related to failures resulting from an assessment of the quality of the financial system's assets, those same funds, except that it is purely hypothetically minimally expensive the financing of the debt, staying unnecessary in the fiscal reserve and paying minimum interest for them, will undoubtedly help to finance the balance over the following budgetary years. My goal is to quickly not have deficit funding, but unfortunately, listening to today's debate, politically this is clearly difficult to achieve against the backdrop of various and diverse claims for additional expenditure exceeding significantly budget revenues, regardless of the good results we achieve in the revenue section. Believe me, I'd like the number 5.3 billion. lv. of a new government debt next year not to be reached. Apropo, to close this cycle of speculation, that 5.3 billion. are part of the multiannual programme, which, at the end of last year, we voted for 16 billion total and which is shown as a positive instrument, which I hope and ministers after me, if they consider to use as an instrument for predictable and sustainable budget financing, which can be as flexible as possible and serve as an instrument of any government as easily and without being put forward in quotes pressured by external markets to provide the necessary liquidity to secure government spending. It is necessary in the next year without creating tension to society to predict a liquid buffer if, God forbid, we have to. We have an unprecedented assessment of the quality of the assets of the financial system as a whole in European practice. A quality assessment of the assets of the banking system has been carried out in many European countries. In very few European countries, an assessment of the quality of the assets of the insurance system has been made. No country has assessed the quality of the assets of the pension funds. In the following year, due to the lack of evidence that we managed to manage our financial system sufficiently qualitatively over the years, we will test all the elements of it - banks, insurers, pension funds. It is not prudent, in my opinion it is not prudent to leave the state without liquid buffers. This is contained in the numbers you're talking about. This, by the way, is also contained in art. 67, which, in my opinion, if you listen to what I'm telling you right now, will not be offered to drop out. Agree that if at one point the public interest and the interest of the depositors requires the intervention of the State and this provides for art. 67, are we going to remain passive like in the summer of 2014? I don't think we should. The 2014 lessons are that the state should be in place when the financial system is experiencing difficulties. I do not wish to repeat the fate of Minister Chobanov to be Minister of Finance at such a time. But art. 67 guarantees the presence of the country where it belongs. We adopted the directive and introduced it into our national resolution legislation for banks and financial institutions. Article 67 is what guarantees that the Bulgarian state will take care of the Bulgarian citizens if unscrupulous shareholders or for other reason we have a failure in the financial system. I wouldn't advise you to insist on dropping out of art. 67. He's in favor of the unwarranted depositors. It is for the benefit of Bulgarian citizens who rely on the financial system as an infrastructure for managing their savings. The fiscal reserve is only an opportunity and a liquidity buffer for the country to become a part if there are such failures. Any excess liquidity is not self-inflicted. It will find a place in funding 2017. I will insist if everything goes well, and for now I am optimistic against the background of the results that the financial system shows, the level of maximum government debt not to reach 5.3 billion. These are the maximum limits. However, if you tie the government's hands in this part, then when you really need to intervene, it will be too late. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u532	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u533	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister Goranov, I did not intend to take this topic into consideration, but I am rather embarrassed by what I heard from the stand from you at the end of a tiring day, perhaps one of the most important members in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u534	We're a long way from the end, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u535	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u536	Sorry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u537	In the middle then, let's be on this day. We are looking at the member who guarantees debt financing, which will be within 2016. However, there are several conclusions to be drawn. First of all, if there's one thing you're successful with, Mr. Goranov, and one thing you can point out is the rate of increase in debt. Because we're going in, I can say it, in a dangerous debt spiral. Look at the levels of government debt just two years ago, see what happens in the second year of your second government. And if you have five billion new debts last year, you have in your own words and words of the prime minister over two billion smuggling, I don't know what revenue you've collected and we're essentially going to go on a deficit increase again, I daren't think about what awaits us for 2016, when you drew a rather disturbing picture from this tribune. In essence, we understand that we need to vote for 5.3 billion debt ceiling, which, you see, is to be used as a buffer for a possible crisis situation in the banking sector, given the upcoming assessment of the assets of the Bulgarian banks. My experience shows that everything you've been going to do so far is unfortunately happening in the most negative scenario. Unfortunately. This provoked me to take the floor, as it seems to me that there is no easy way to pass this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u538	What do you do for help?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u539	At the very least, we all need to help the kind of situation that you outlined, like CCB, not happen a second time in our country. Somehow I'm not comfortable with the fact that we have buffers in our budget and we can react to another situation of this kind. [[GERB lines.]] I would like to get at least a little more information before we vote on this article...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u540	He hasn't been reported yet, Mr. Boychev, but talk to him, it doesn't matter, I'm listening. We're talking about it right now. art. 66. Speak up, you've taken the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u541	Okay. I would like to hear a little more information about what happened with the support that the state gave to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which last year was so long discussed here? What happened to the liquid support given to a Bulgarian bank before giving such a mandate to the Bulgarian government the opportunity to use this instrument once again? Because at least what I see from all public actions so far seems to me that the public interest, the public interest, is not protected enough. And here a year ago there were promises that, you see, this money is borrowed and they will be reimbursed to the budget. I see that extraordinary legislation has been made, everything that has been requested has been done in this House. Certain Syndicates are constantly being replaced, certain procedures are being made all the time, but I would like to hear again, giving the Council of Ministers a mandate, what has been done so far as it is done as a job. After all, it is several billion that have been distributed and I think we owe an answer to the Bulgarian voters and Bulgarian citizens about how this money will be reimbursed in the state budget before once again signing an empty check and giving the government the opportunity to operate and to make an intervention with liquid support of one or another bank. Since we have given you, Mr. Goranov, and another buffer within 2.5 billion as capital costs, which are also not scheduled. I, too, as a Member of the National Assembly, have express concerns about the extremely large maneuvers that you will have within this year to manage money outside the mandate which the National Assembly has given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u542	Mrs. Stoyanova, report to her. 67, since the discussion is already going on under Art. 67. Art. 66. 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u543	Under art. 67 has a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group. Sixty-seven to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 67, which becomes Art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u544	Do other MPs want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u545	Madam President, shall I report to the next member who is having an affair?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u546	All right, report him to the texts that have a connection to hold the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u547	This is art. 68 where again there is a proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group in art. 68 the number....3,9.... is replaced by.0.................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 68, which becomes Art. 67: Art. 67. Within the framework of the medium-term programme for issuing debt on the international markets established by the Treaty on Dealership between the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer and Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P LC, Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG as Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, the Treaty for Agentship between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citibank N.A., branch London, as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citygroup Global Marks Deutscheland AG in the capacity of Registor, Payment Agent and Agent for the Transfer of the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000 000 000 000, and the Act for the Accomposing of the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of the Emotive Programme for the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of the Republic of Bulgaria, signed in accordance with Article 8 000 February 2015. ...) (BW, No. ...), the Council of Ministers can assume external government debt of up to 3.9 billion. lv. or their equivalent in another currency, including for the purposes of art. 66, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u548	To speak, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u549	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, to thank Minister Goranov, because for the first time he spoke so specifically on this topic and justified the submitted proposal under art. 66, respectively 67 c, I quote, an assessment of the quality of the assets of the financial system, even twice mentioned it, and that this will be a test for banks, insurance and pension funds. We do not underestimate these risks and, along with this, the obligations that Bulgaria has to re-evaluate the assets of the financial institutions. It's probably not difficult, at least for people who are more deeply interested in this topic, and now to say who these two, three or four banks are that we're talking about, but I'm not going to do it for understandable reasons. I would like to warn you that we will not accept the non-compliance in these assets being paid by Bulgarian citizens as taxpayers. We already have the bitter example of CCB, with the way it has been handled, so that these possible problems must be borne exclusively or at least mainly by those who own the institutions concerned. Because if both the Central Bank and you apply your powers well enough, you will be able to see that some of these institutions are essentially engaged in a financial activity that is not in the public interest but in the interests of related companies. So this account, this money that they collect from everyone, and spend mostly on themselves, will not be paid by the Bulgarian citizens. From this point of view, we are questioning such a potential buffer because this buffer, even if it exists, must be smaller and there must be consistency of action. We refuse to save financial institutions, which have already worked for many years mainly in their own interests and against the interests of Bulgarian citizens in some cases. Because here, when you want these funds, you should have said how many of the money to be returned to KTB are currently collected. Currently there are also new complex transactions with KTB assets, I will not refer to them, they are known. How much of this money will you guarantee to return to the bankruptcy table, respectively to the Guarantee Fund? The question was also raised: have those to whom you have already helped in the previous years paid off for this help? They, by the way, are not addressed only to your government, this is already a sustainable practice. And if they have paid off, they may expect some new financial support. These things are also known to Minister Chobanov, and to you as current minister, and to other people who are well aware of this matter. From this point of view, we have made this proposal under Article really more challenging. 67. We are not opposed to you predicting a sum of 3.1 billion. BGN, or slightly higher, which speaks of this responsibility and that the state in the face of its citizens will not be that payer of foreign accounts. This period should end in Bulgaria, because the contrary means that lawmakers should serve the large speculative financial capital, various transactions which, according to good European practices and legislation, are unacceptable in almost one country, some people should continue to look almost like benefactors, to present themselves as bailiffs of the economy and as people we help here so that they can solve the problems, and they are actually largely creating today's problems. I therefore refer here to the Members of the National Assembly, I think the discussion has started well and I hope it will end in such a responsible way, because at the border between the two calendar years we predict and discuss events that will be deployed during the next or the following financial year. And this responsible approach is necessary to be supported by the Bulgarian National Assembly. If you are aware of it, you will show that the government does not continue to serve these interests and to be dependent, but wants to change a policy which is part of a period that Bulgaria should finally end. This is our appeal and this is our attitude to this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u550	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u551	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! I have only one question for the honourable Minister Goranov. From his speech I got the disturbing impression that he is preparing us or at least he has information and brought it to us in this way to prepare us for an expected fear to say it, but such an impression was within me, I suppose, and in many of you, for serious problems in the banking system in Bulgaria, which will reproduce the KTB phenomenon. So I will ask Minister Goranov, my request to him is to dispel these impressions if it really is only about concerns and not a real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u552	I don't think you get it. Would you like to take an attitude? Here you are, Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u553	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I saw that many people I respect, but I can't recognize them as tempted by the financial theme, were ready to speak on this article. There's a lot of cameras working, that's gotta be challenging you. I have no concern to comment on any subject related to the financial system. But this, in the interests of society, should not be a speculative debate. We can talk about debt. It is generated by the costs of the State which exceed its revenues. We can talk about the fiscal reserve and its reasonable size. We can talk doctrinally about the role of capital, speculative or industrial, but we should not cause restlessness or imbalances in the financial system, especially when they do not exist. The role of asset quality assessment is to restore lost confidence in the financial system. Trust was largely lost because of the lack of immunity in some of the state authorities that played a role in protecting it. Responsibility is largely carried by people in this room, if you will, but we should not put a sharp line between the past and the future and use this particular topic of political speculation. I used the call for comment to ask you very precisely and very carefully to lead this debate, because the financial institutions are not owned by their shareholders. They're the property of the depositors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u554	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u555	They're the property of the depositors. The financial infrastructure in the model in which it currently exists has not arisen in the last 20 years. The role of financial capital is not recognized doctrinally in the last 10. If you want, we can have this debate for a long time. Banks are not the enemy of their depositors. The financial system is not an enemy of society. In this sense, the attempt to fuel fears or to provoke tensions on this topic is short-sighted. If you don't want the state to have tools to influence these processes, take them away. However, it is no coincidence that the whole of Europe, following the 2008 crisis, has created and created more and more instruments to ensure precisely the possibility for people to use this infrastructure stable and sustainable without risk of losses for them. If you don't think we should have such an opportunity in our legislation, remove it. However, the question is: where are the shareholders in the bankrupt banks from the years when the left has once again managed? I didn't want to bring him back to this, but you're pulling me into this debate. Sometimes banks' shareholders can't bear the responsibility. This also happened in 2014. What is the common person and the common depositor responsible for this? Should the state have tools and opportunity or shouldn't there be? If you say there shouldn't be a vote against it, the state won't. But the whole of Europe is proposing this mechanism. Article 67. We could comment that it does not even have to be accepted in this form. It is an additional guarantee that, with your consent, the sovereign's will guarantees the implementation of the Restructuring Directive. However, if you consider that people should remain defenseless in the event of failure, a decision can be made as appropriate. I believe that all options for a responsible governance in a country that seeks European values should be available. Moreover, I say again, this is a European Union directive, this is not an internal national decision. I am in a hurry to support your.. the option to use a state intervention mechanism is the last among all the options provided for in the Restructuring Directive. That doesn't mean we're going directly to that option. But I suggest the government suggests the Budget Committee proposes to have this option in tools with which the state can solve such problems. The other is a matter of legislative appropriateness. But I'm asking you to be very precise about this debate so we don't put fears in society, because there's no need for that. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u556	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u557	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u558	The word has Georgi Bojinov and after him Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u559	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! This debate on billions was, in my opinion, extremely important and it will have very serious consequences. After the two speeches of Mr. Minister many questions remain open and if the statesmen, the politicians of Bulgaria do not find the strength to analyze them, we will soon be hit by another, scarier wave. Mr. Minister, there is one thing I would like to point out, so that I do not go further in this debate. Article 66 determines the amount of government debt to 26,6 billion, including 67 of these 5,3 You have justified in your first speech that you want, and it is good not to go there within that 16 billion, located in the three-year horizon, to have your hands untied. When this is the case, even if the majority votes it, there is one question for me: when you had completely untied hands about a month ago to move within this mandate given to you by Parliament, what did you have to withdraw that 50 million for which there is no... [[GERB's line.]] What do you want, coworker? You can't shake it with a handshake.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u560	Please, Mr. Bojinov, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u561	I ask the Minister: when he had his hands untied on this clear horizon and everything he was asked of him, you gave him what was required under these opaque and unfavorable conditions to take the 50 million about a month ago? And this gives rise to other doubts and concerns that these 5.3 and these 26.6, when there are force majeure or other interests, if you do not give us a good answer today, this will be repeated. [[Replica by Minister Vladislav Goranov.]] There's a question on Friday, but today is the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u562	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. [[Calling from the auditorium.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u563	Don't yell like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u564	Mr. Bojinov, please. Please don't call from the hall. Mr. Ivanov has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Procedure for termination of debates and voting of texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u566	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u567	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, I urge you to withdraw this proposal [[GERB noise and lines]] or fellow Members to vote against, as we make a huge mistake, I speak on behalf of the majority in this House, which we admitted last year with a guilty silence, by not defending the good arguments, in the case of the finance minister. You know very well that I am not his first protector of Mr. Goranov. And 2014, and now "2015," we give the topic of foreign debt to be exercised as a bad gum from the left, to be lied to and misled Bulgarian society [[Replication by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov]] And on top of that, believe! These people a year ago lied about taking 16 billion debt! And the Bulgarian citizens because of this guilty silence of ours believed them because we did not go out. I'm out! I went out, you guys kept quiet again. I'm against this termination. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u568	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u569	You lied before the election!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u570	I put to the vote the procedure proposed by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. 110 MPs voted: 75 against 27, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u571	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u572	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u573	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. I think you should have made a remark to Mr. Kanev, as he uses qualifications that are relevant to us that we have lied to people. When serious questions are asked, you cannot qualify in such a cheap way! We, apart from raising questions, have presented arguments. If he has any other version and wants to get involved in this discussion, let's get to the point. Mr. Kanev, wasn't your party's money in that bank and not our money?! [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u574	The way I'm being led should be addressed, not Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u575	Yeah, in that part...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u576	I didn't have any money in that bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u577	I'm not talking about you, but I'm talking about those political righteous people who are very comfortable standing on each side. And I ask myself, how many wheels has this coalition been left with? It's not too late to make a comment. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u578	You and I need to make a note. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Yanaki Stoilov in art. 66 by importer, which in the Commission's report is art. 66, the number..26.6 billion. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 10 million. lv. We are voting on a proposal made by the MP Yanaki Stoilov. They voted 114 MPs: 25, against 70, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 66, which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 65 in her report. Vote art. 65 on the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs: 95 against 25 abstentions. Article 65 on the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote please, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u579	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs! My negative vote is based on the fact that in a number of cases I share the thoughts of the current Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov, who on 1 August 2013 says: "Listen carefully! And the next government will say, "Give me 1 billion." BGN, give me another 1 billion. lv. and by wasting the debt by several billion, we will become the Greek scenario. I listen to Mr. Borisov's words. I'm saying it's not about the script, it's not about getting into the debt spiral. Dear Minister Goranov, you say you want an empty check for $2 billion. lv. approximately 2 billion. lv. is unclear what you will be using for. You mentioned that you would use them in connection with the stress test of the banking system. This is a very bad signal to the Bulgarian banking system and international finances, so I am voting negatively. Nowhere in the Constitution is it said that the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria should be tied to the banking system. I warned you last year again from this tribune that it is unacceptable to bind taxpayers' money to the banking system of Bulgaria. What do you mean? Under the Constitution it is independent and you have no right to send such signals. Now you want $2 billion. BGN to somehow strengthen the banking system. This is absolutely unacceptable, unacceptable, and we will not sign such an empty check, so I am voting strongly against......................................... and we will not sign such an empty check......................................... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u580	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Another negative vote, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u581	My fellow Members, in addition to the arguments that have been put forward so far for the vote against, I would like to point out one more. I heard from the Minister of Finance saying he's going to do a stress test on the pension funds. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the pension fund problems have already started because of this same minister and this government. You have adopted changes in the legislation by which you have given people the opportunity to transfer the contributions they want from pension funds to the National Insurance Institute. The Fund at the National Insurance Institute has not been established yet, but should start working as of 1 January 2016. By accepting the budget of the State Social Security, the Governor of the National Insurance Institute said they could not make any prediction of what money will be transferred from private funds to the National Insurance Institute. Thirdly, the people who have already moved their money to the NSI, and they want to take it back, can't right now. I mean, I'm saying that you deliberately hit the private pension fund system and the third pillar, and now you're going to do stress tests to say that they're not functioning. And for this job, on top of all that, we need to vote on a new debt. You ruin something, you take money to test it to say it doesn't work. What are you doing? Nor does the NSI profit from this because it is evident that the deficit in the NSI does not change, nor the funds, and most of all they do not earn the people who put their money there. That is why, in addition to all the other arguments, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u582	They don't go to the NOI. They have to go to the Silver Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u583	Is there another negative vote? I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs under art. 67. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 24, Against 49, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 67 by importer which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 66 in her report. They voted 102 MPs: 79, against 23, no abstentions. Article 66 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u584	Please re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The vote is important, and I therefore ask for a re-vote, as my fellow Members have been confused in the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u587	Revoting procedure, please. Vote art. 66 on the Commission's report, that is, we are revoting it for those who have failed last. Vote 97 MPs: for 73, against 21, abstention 3. Article 66 on the Commission report has been adopted. We are voting on the proposal made by MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 17 against 60 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 68, which, after editing by the Commission, becomes art. 67 in her report. Please vote art. 67 on the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 77, against 23, no abstentions. Article 67 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u588	The Commission supports the importer's text on...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u589	Negative vote, Mrs. Stoyanova. Negative vote on the public representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u590	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I voted against it because I support everything that my fellow Members have said. Of course, I also understand what the Minister said, but in the end, from the very beginning, since the talk about this debt, it is clear that an opaque increase in debt is being offered, and it is a debt of 5.3 billion. All over the normal world that we strive for, the debates on the budget and on these topics have been going on for months. With us, unfortunately, this is not happening. That's why this debate, Mr. Goranov, is going this way in the Chamber, because somehow here in the last few days it has been revealed that, you see, it takes 2.2 billion. lv. buffer for these stress tests. Clearly, this is very disturbing. It is clear that you have some assessment and analysis that these funds will be necessary, but it is also very dangerous. I don't know if this was necessary to become a debate and talk now. I don't know if it wasn't more right, and maybe it's to happen when we have information, and that's gonna be necessary. Yes, it takes time, but these are also the funds that all of us and our fellow citizens will pay for years of these debts and we need to know.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u591	Which citizens, from Plovdiv?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u592	Not just from Plovdiv, Mr. Chairman. I hold onto those who have sent me here, but I suppose those who have sent you also want to know what these billions will be spent on as debt. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u593	How many times have we told you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u594	We understand that on the last day. [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] It's not the same thing, Mrs. Yordanova, because that's what you've been talking about for two days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u595	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u596	Why don't we know that?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u597	Report to Art. 69, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u598	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69, which becomes art. 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u599	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 69, which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 68 in her report. Vote 95 MPs: 77 against 18 abstentions. Article 68 on the Commission report has been adopted. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 7:18. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u600	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for interruption is up. The hearing is ongoing. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u601	Under art. 70 has a proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs......................................................................................... 70 down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70, which becomes art. 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u602	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u603	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, our proposal is related to the fact that the wording of this article is somewhat disturbing. When talking about swaps and derivatives at the same time as government debt, this brings forward the idea of speculative operations which, in the case of sovereign debt, are not always the best we can do. I do not believe that, in principle, a similar article is necessary in the Law because it is stated that everything will be done with subsequent ratification. That is, even if there is such an operation, it is part of the debt operations and this is an additional argument. Otherwise, because we are on the plane of government debt, regarding what is said about restructuring banks, abstracting whether we really need such resources, I can confirm that because we are not a member of the Eurozone, there is no way to benefit from the rescue mechanisms that exist for other countries. Unfortunately, although as a source of last resort, in such an adverse situation, which we hope will not happen, it can come to the use of money from a fissure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u604	Any lines to Mr. Chobanov? I won't. Any other MPs? I can't see. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 75 MPs: 3 against 41, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 70 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 69. They voted 91 MPs: for 86, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u605	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71, which becomes art. 70, as in para. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 words.............................................................................. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72, which becomes Art. 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73, which becomes Art. 72, as in c. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 1 to amend this Regulation by means of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 74, which becomes Art. 73. The Commission shall support the importer's test for art. 75, which becomes Art. 74, such as the words "art." 73 and 74 and 74s are replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76, which becomes Art. 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u606	Statements? I won't. We vote on the reported members by importer from 71 to 76, which become respectively members with numbers from 70 to 75, some of them supported by importer and some of them in the version of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 94 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u607	Proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs in art. 77 the following changes shall be made: "1." In para. 1 after the word "supplier" the words "supplier" shall be added to the amount of 50 million. 2. In para. 2 the words of the Minister of Finance shall be added after the word. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports it by t. 2. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 77, which becomes Article 77. 76: Art. 76. (1) The funds to secure the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2018 are planned in the central budget. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be provided by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and to the Minister of Finance up to the amount of the planned. (3) The funds shall be spent for renting and/or upgrading of a building fund for the needs of the Presidency, including the "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1 for recruitment, remuneration and training of employees, for organizing and conducting communication campaigns in the country and abroad and for other activities aimed at ensuring timely and effective preparation for the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u608	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u609	I withdraw the rest of the unsupported proposals in this part.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u610	Withdraw the unsupported part. Thank you. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote art. 77 by importer, which becomes art. 76 in the version of the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 100 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u611	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 78 to 81 per importer, which shall become Articles 77 to 80 respectively on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u612	We vote. They voted 111 MPs: 100 against 9, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u613	The proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova is created art. 81a: Art. 81a. For the construction of an invasive laboratory to the cardiac department of the Hospital Smolyan. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u614	Mrs. Yankova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u615	It doesn't belong here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u616	It doesn't belong systematically, but why did you report it? Anyone can offer anything but where they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u617	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I've been looking a lot for a place to put my offer, and since I know there's 2 billion extra, I hope they'll have found a place to put it. I propose it in a debate in plenary. The only district centre that does not have an invasive laboratory to a cardiological department at the Hospital of Bratan Shukerov is Smolyan and I suggest it be created. I propose an editorial note in the amount of 2.5 million. lvs. lvs. Invasive diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular diseases, we all know, is a modern method that has proven its effectiveness in treating acute myocardial infarction in the early hours. I realize that, in the opinion of the experts, there are doctors here who can take the attitude within 120 minutes of the first medical examination with contact, should be reacted. The distance Smolyan is more than 100 km from Plovdiv. Very often in Smolyan they arrive from different municipalities, travel about an hour. They need to be examined, directed and headed towards Plovdiv. We realize how risky it is, I'm not going to give statistics that could be taken from the Health Insurance Fund. In my opinion, it is much more expensive for the country to be only in Plovdiv. Smolyan has the capacity for this. I am convinced that the Chairman of the Health Commission will also support it, because I believe that it will fall into the health card as well. My proposal is not to delay, but to lay down in the budget of the Fatherland in 2016. At least to be provided for in these 2 billion, which are provided in the way in which they will be distributed. This is lifesaving for much of the district's population. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u618	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mrs Yankova's proposal, which the Commission does not support, including the editorial supplement she made from the stands. They voted 115 MPs: 26, against 49, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u619	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 82, which becomes Art. 81.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u620	We vote. Vote 120 MPs: 103, against 11, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Article 83 supposed by the National Representative Dora Yankova to drop the words of the municipalities. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Member of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 83 drop the words of the municipalities and provide the necessary funds through optimization of the support funds of the institutions concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 83, which becomes Art. 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u621	Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u622	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! For another year, we are making this proposal. The discussion on fiscal decentralisation and local self-government is not from yesterday. We are trying to provide local revenues to municipalities that do not depend and reduce to some extent what they receive from the state. That's one way to do it. The municipalities have a building fund and very often even in the municipal center itself, the buildings owned by the municipalities do not benefit from the municipalities themselves. There are state institutions that do not pay rent. If private institutions were placed there, they would pay rent and this would bring revenue to the municipalities themselves. The proposal is simple and in the light of the fact that no additional revenue from municipalities has been supported, at least to support this. To pay rent and to be able to earn income from this property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u623	Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u624	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank Mr. Chobanov for his support. Indeed, let the state, when there is a large building fund, especially in the district cities, have many buildings that can be used by individual offices regardless of who owns the property for free when they are municipal. Local self-government operates under another bill, to create rules just so they can pay. We have witnessed from the time of Minister Djankov the state property per square meter became at least 12 leva. and how many state buildings are paid and institutions are accommodated in the buildings of municipalities and there is a zero rate. This is modest help to the Bulgarian municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u625	Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mrs. Yankova's proposal, which is identical with Mr. Lutvi Mestan's proposal and a group of MPs in art. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 34 against 60, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 83 by importer, which becomes art. 82. They voted 115 MPs: 110, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u626	The Commission supports the texts of the importer as Articles 84 to 86, which become Articles 83 to 85 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u627	We vote. They voted 120 MPs: for 101, against 15, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u628	Under art. 87 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1 after the call of the European Union funds the expression "in consultation with the specific beneficiary" shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87, which becomes Art. 86.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u629	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 126 MPs: 18, against 75, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 87 by importer, which becomes art. 86 on the report, following the Commission's support. Vote 105 MPs: 96 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u630	Under art. 88 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 88, para. 1 after the expression "supplied enterprises' is comma and the expression "supplied companies and municipal companies' is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 88, which becomes Art. 87.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u631	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 113 MPs: for 7, against 73, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 88 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 87. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u632	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. Art. 89, Art. Art. 90, which become respectively art. 88 and 89.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u633	We vote. Vote 116 MPs: 103, against 9, abstention 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u634	Under art. 91 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 91 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 and the expression "and the budgets of the municipalities".. is dropped and the comma after the central 2. Alinea 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91, which becomes Art. 90.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u635	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 126 MPs: 18, against 72, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 91 by importer, which becomes art. 90, supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 102, against 8, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u636	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer from art. Art. 92 to Art. 95, respectively, which become Articles 91 to 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u637	We vote. Vote 117 MPs: 105 against 9, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u638	Under art. 96 has a proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 96, para. 1 is amended as follows: In order to ensure that the public funding provided to non-financial corporations and the general subsidy to the municipalities for the activities delegated by the State cannot be used for collateral purposes, the Commission considers that the aid granted to the non-financial corporations and the general subsidy to the municipalities for the activities delegated by the State cannot be used for the purposes of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96, which becomes Art. 95.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u639	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 119 MPs: 20, against 71, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 96 by importer, which becomes art. 95. They voted 121 MPs: 106, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u640	Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs for the establishment of new Articles 96a and 96b: ..created art.. 96a. and 96b.Subcutaneous or intravenous use Art. 96a. Municipalities can be supported for their access to funding by the Fund for Local Self-government Authorities in Bulgaria "Flag" EAD in implementation of projects of the European Structural and Investment Funds, under conditions, by order and criteria defined by the Council of Ministers, agreed with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 96b. The costs of municipalities to manage the National Energy Efficiency Programme of multi-family residential buildings shall be reimbursed according to the terms and conditions laid down by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u641	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 126 MPs: 26, against 70, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u642	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97, which becomes Art. 96. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98, which becomes Art. 97, as in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99, which becomes art. 98, as in para. 10, t. 5 words................................................................................. The 101s shall be replaced by the following: 100. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100, which becomes art. 99, as in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M3, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, which becomes Art. 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u643	Statements? I won't. We are voting for members with numbers 96 to 100 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: 108, Against 11, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u644	Under art. 102 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 102 the words for the revenue shall be replaced by the statement for 50% of the revenue and shall be replaced by the statement for 50% of the revenue. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs.......................................................................................... 102 down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 102, which becomes Art. 101.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u645	To speak, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u646	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 is provided for the granting of concession to Sofia Airport. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Yeah, yeah, I'm saying because maybe not all of them strictly follow the provisions that are being voted on. Moreover, the funds received from this concession are envisaged not as required by the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System (SPA) to go to the so-called Silver Fund (SIR) but to pursue other objectives. As we understand it, with the concession at Sofia airport to stabilize BDZ financially. I see that the MPs from the DPS have made some compromise proposal that at least half of these funds be allocated between revenue in the budget and the Silver Fund, but our proposal is sufficiently clear, categorically, it is for dropping the provision itself. And here, even though there is no Minister of Transport, perhaps some of the people who work in this area will take note. I ask: why, after a few years ago the state invested huge funds to expand Sofia airport, now it will grant it a concession? This could have had certain public defendable arguments if the concessionaire had been attracted to extend the airport and it would then receive these charges and operate. I am not even opposed to attracting other more powerful operators along with the Bulgarian state, but this is another model, different from continuing to give state property to foreign companies we call investors. Again, we can't count on just getting some funds for the moment to plug other holes into other state structures. It's a long-term problem. That is why we have made a proposal to remove this text. Because by cutting off the state from the profitable activities it owns, we are condemning it to an increasing degree of imperceptibility because state-owned companies are not created just to appoint those closest to power who occupy the most profitable positions. This is particularly up-to-date at the moment and in view of a number of disputes in the judiciary and other related to transport and flight activities, but I now do not want to mix the two issues. Therefore, support our proposal to preserve the state's capabilities and look for other models to operate, attract, and currently at Sofia airport there are world-famous companies that develop logistics, repair and other activities. This is no obstacle and this will help both the Bulgarian state and will open the Bulgarian airport to other companies, it will be able to continue its expansion and improvement of service in the future. It is evident that it also needs to improve the organisation of activities, but this will not happen simply through another donation, albeit in the form of a concession, without excluding the existence of any revenue, but they cannot justify this step. At least that is what we understand, and therefore we call on the nationally responsible MPs, regardless of which parliamentary group they are from, to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u647	Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group which the Commission does not support. Vote 128 MPs: 25, against 69, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 119 MPs: 30, against 68, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 102 by importer supported by the Commission with a new numbering art. 101. 135 MPs voted: 107 against 25, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u648	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! I voted against it because, apart from expectations for the airport to develop, given that it paid it once and not annually, it hides one other risk of getting it not to develop, but to be taken by the operator at a competitive close airport and its development to follow the fate of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So this adventure is too dangerous and if there are trade unions in Bulgaria, let them wake up today. If there are people who can assess what is going on, react, because after that vote it is clear that a lump sum is sought and there will be no concession fee in the coming years, as is usually the case with concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u649	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Chobanov, come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u650	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers and deputy prime ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We voted against it, as the Silver Fund Act, which is aimed at long-term sustainability, is suspended to remind the pension system. That's why we offered the compromise option 50% if you want to suspend it. We know that BDZ's problems are difficult, we may have to help them somehow. I was personally involved in negotiations with creditors. The situation is really severe, but this money, anyway, has long been judged that when it comes to privatisation and concession some of them enter the Silver Fund. This is fully justified, since the privatisation and concession of a property has previously been built and from there it should be possible to benefit from it in the long term and not immediately spent as it is proposed here. For this reason and mainly because of the suspension of the Silver Fund Act, we voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u651	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. For the third negative vote, please, Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u652	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I voted against it because this article in the State Budget Act is asking more questions than answers because we are giving an object of strategic importance to Bulgaria, which has an extremely large amount of money, which is now unclear what purpose is given and to whom the concession is given, all the more so that there is already such experience with the money from the Health Insurance Fund, which has been taken out of the reserve a billion and four hundred thousand. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] Now we're going to finance, taking this money from the Silver Fund, an almost bankrupt enterprise, unclear about what purposes. This is the main reason why I am voting against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u653	Social goals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u654	Social goals in this thing you're proposing, I don't see any. It is not clear here what will happen to those working at Sofia airport, how they will be dealt with and how they will be dealt with with with this extremely valuable state property. Mostly the Bulgarian pensioners are also being harmed. These are the main reasons why I voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u655	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u656	Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Tanev for new members: ..created art.. 103 and 104: Art. 103. In the case of savings of capital expenditure under the central budget and in the case of no excess of the budget balance under art. 1, para. 2, item V within the current budget year, the Council of Ministers provides funds up to 100 million. BGN under the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for implementation of national programs in the field of education. Art. 104. The Ministry of Education and Science and/or the State Higher Schools and Student Chairs and dorms can apply for the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings for the renovation of student dorms. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov, Iskren Veselinov and a group for the creation of a new art. 103: Art. 103. For the 2016 budget year, there is no increase in the salary and remuneration of the MPs, the Council of Ministers, the President, Vice President and the administration of the President, the Regional governors and the administration of the district governors, members of political cabinet. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u657	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u658	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal is very clear. Everyone here who went to the barracks remembers the slogan that wrote at every single barracks: The Word teaches, the example leads. We teach people and we give them brains about what to do. After all, the example is more important than the fairy tales we speak to them. Therefore, we from the Patriotic Front offer salaries to MPs, ministers, deputy ministers, political cabinet, regional governors, that is, political people in power, to freeze their salaries for next year. This, I assure you, will not affect either the budget or the income in the families of MPs and political figures in power. Some people will say: it's populism. No, it's not populism. [[Arrival in GERB.]] No, no, it's not like that. And I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u659	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u660	Since you do not agree to the minimum pension to be 300 BGN, you want with 300 BGN. to increase the MP's salary annually, to which morals and to what example are we talking to society? It's very simple. It's not populism. I think our salaries as MPs are not small against the background of the standard where the average Bulgarian lives, even above the average Bulgarian. If we ask for people's deprivations, if we offer them taxes, if we offer them taxes and any other restrictions, we must start from ourselves. I return to the example of the people chosen to lead the nation. That is what our proposal is about. And I think that if every one of us here thinks about our constituents, those voters who come to our receptions, who with a cane, who with a disease, who with an unemployed person, all those people who expect something to do for them, we can at least tell them: there is no money in the budget, but at least we, the MPs, will not raise our salaries. It's very simple and simple. To my BSP friends: if they want to be real socialists, to support this proposal so I don't have to explain to them who is lying about what. Thank you for your attention and I call on my fellow Members to take this seriously. Indeed, the personal example of humans will be a very important sign. We want deprivation of society, and we must be the first to show that we are ready to be deprived of our poor wages. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u661	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u662	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I'll tell you why this is pure populism. Because, you know, we are the party that, in the Forty-first National Assembly, we froze wages. But by freezing our wages, we freeze the salaries of everyone from the state, including presidency, government and so on, which, on the one hand, is not bad. But I'm saying it's pure populism because everyone knows, and the media knows that every year we make donations. When you feel your salary is a little higher, you can donate it. When we talk about parties giving up subsidies, let's go to those parties that have received property and renting them out to transfer them to orphanages! [[Applause and screams: "Bravo!" by GERB, single applause by RB.]] And not here from this tribune to campaign for something that is not true at all, and please stop this populism! Everyone knows that the salaries of the MPs in Bulgaria are the lowest in Europe and this should be because it is the poorest state. But I'm saying it's times, times lower even than the salaries in Romania. Let's not go to any extremes and walk and barefoot, just to show how social we are and how much we care for our constituents! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u663	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Second line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u664	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Karakachanov, I'll replicate you. You said: "If the Bulgarian Socialist Party is social. They're very social! They are very patriotic, they are very principled and very persistent when they are in opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u665	For the third line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u666	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I know that it is very fun for you to mess with the Bulgarian Socialist Party. This is how a small party should be measured with the largest and oldest. [[Sighs:.]] The biggest normal party. [[World cheers:]] But, Mr. Karakachanov, being in the ruling coalition, make sure that the incomes of the Bulgarian citizens are increased, the social payments of the Bulgarian citizens to be increased when they were in the government, BSP and even if for a little while they did it and proved it, unlike you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u667	A hole, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u668	You made me cry, Mr. Merdjanov. Looking at the results of the IMRO, the small party, are the same as the results of the big, biggest party. And we don't have a district mayor, and you don't have a district mayor. [[Laughter, loud noise and applause by GERB and PF.]] So, on the way you're going, maybe we should help you in the next election at least bring in some municipal councilmen. But that's another question about nagging. [[Reply of MP Atanas Merdjanov.]] By what we've done for people to get higher incomes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u669	What have you done?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u670	You have seen that it was thanks to Mr. Emil Dimitrov's proposals that a lot of things were laid down that would and would fill the fissure further. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova? And that money will benefit people. I think that's what you should have done when you've been running 12 for the last 25 years, but you haven't. It's very easy to forget yesterday and think there will always be tomorrow. Yeah, there's gonna be tomorrow, but people are sick of the same thing for 25 years, so I suggest we focus on the essentials. To my respected colleague from GERB and Adash, Mr. Velchev is not populism, Mr. Velchev. We don't freeze the salaries of everyone in the country. We freeze in the proposal, whether we freeze it, you will decide that you.. we offer to freeze the salaries of those who receive large salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u671	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u672	You're asking who, us! The MPs are getting some salaries, disproportionately large, with the income of normal people. What's gonna stop us if we don't get that few hundred leva increase? Nothing! But it would be a gesture. I'm not saying this will fill the budget. We have offered you something else. The subsidy money when we presented the arguments for subsidies, we have told you that there is no country in Europe to spend such huge money on parties. And you think the corruption in politics has stopped? It's not! It's a matter of principle. In times of crisis, you ask people to fasten their seat belts, you explain to them how they shouldn't eat fat and drink brandy. Well, give your personal example and say good, in this year of crisis, don't drink brandy, but we will also freeze the salaries of those who are still in power. It's very simple, very simple. Populism would be to say otherwise. That's it! Of course, as a left-wing classic once said: The Genesis defines consciousness. The bad thing is, however, when this existence is simply not in line with the existence and life of the ordinary Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u673	Any other MPs? Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u674	Mr. Karakachanov, you are being overly passionate against the BSP because we have a decision to support this proposal of yours. If you had thrown the same energy into other proposals that we discussed on the budget, we would probably have had a better result. And to Mr. Velchev, we disagree with your argument...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u675	Do you do the doppelganger, Mrs. Ninova? You name all those who spoke before you. You have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u676	We will support this proposal because we believe that our income should to some extent be measured against those of Bulgarians in Bulgaria and not MPs in other European countries, where the standard of living is higher.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u677	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Tanev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 126 MPs: 34 against 25, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karakachanov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 130 MPs: 36, against 33, abstention 61. [[(Replication of the rapporteur Menda Stoyanova:]] The offer is not accepted. Mr. Tsonev, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u678	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I voted against the proposal of my colleague Karakachanov, although it was dressed with wonderful arguments..unemployment..the lowest incomes in the country. It's all true. But when I have said it before, I will remind you now, colleagues, when someone proposes from the MPs, because it has been a practice for the last 7 years freezing the salary, it always smells like two essential arguments, really, behind the beautiful phrases. The first is that either there are incomes that are unragemented. [[Applause from GERB]] And the second is that it doesn't work and he thinks he doesn't deserve that money. I believe that in this House people work enough and must tell the public fair and square that they have no other income and that they think they deserve their money with their work. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u679	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u680	We vote. They voted 142 MPs: 131, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u681	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administration ( SG No. 15 of 2012) Paragraph 16 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 2 the words "supplied loans' are replaced by "supplied loans'. 2. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6 : The number of the central administration of the executive for the purposes of preparation and completion of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2018. (5) The Council of Ministers may increase the number of staff under the conditions of para. 4 on a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs. (6) The appointed under the conditions and under the order of para. 4 and 5 employees shall take office in a temporary employment relationship or shall be temporarily transferred to another administration in accordance with art. 81b of the Civil Service Act until the end of the activities related to the Presidency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u682	Statements? We are voting § 1 on the report and § 2 and 3 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 110, against 6, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u683	Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: They are created § 3a and 3b: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals (prom. SG...) in Transitional and Final provisions § 9a is amended as follows: .................................................................................. The income of natural persons suppliers and/or farmers received in the form of State aid, subsidies and/or other support from the European Funds shall not be included in the taxable income and shall not be subject to tax. These incomes shall be declared in the annual tax return. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Value Added Tax (prom. The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71 is created I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 10. has paid part of the value according to the issued tax document under art. Art. 114, Art. 115 equal to or greater than the tax specified in a separate order. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) a new para shall be created. 10: The tax shall not be deducted, recovered and/or intercepted if the person who deducts, recovers and/or captures a result for a certain tax period has not paid any part of the value under the tax documents under art. Art. 114, Art. 115 on which the result is drawn, with the part paid being at least equal to or greater than the tax specified in a separate order. (b) para. The 10th and 11th become respectively. 11 and 12. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u684	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Mikov's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 114 MPs: 15 against 73, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u685	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ By 31 January 2016, all monthly aid granted under art. 7 of the Family Aid Act for Children in the period 1 February 2015 "31 December 2015' are amended as follows: 1. the amounts of aid granted shall be determined in accordance with art. 7. ) (a.k.a. 4 of the Family Aid Act for children and art. 60 of this Law; 2. the duration of the aid shall be extended until a total period of 12 months has been reached for the aid. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Within 30 days of receipt of the information referred to in § 5 relating to a change or removal of the grounds for receiving monthly aid art. 7 of the Children's Family Aid Act, the Social Assistance Directorate, carries out a check as a result of which it can amend, suspend or terminate the aid for all or any of the children in the family. In the event that the information referred to in § 5 follows that the family complies with the definition laid down in § 1, item 1. 1 point (b) of the Additional provisions of the Family Aids Act for children, the family must submit a new application, and until an order has been issued by the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate (SCI) or by him an official responsible for the new application - the aid shall not be terminated. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on Protection and Development of Culture (prom., SG No. ...) Section Ia with Article 5 shall be established in Chapter Five. 23e-23g: "Department Ia................................................................................................................................................................. Art. 23e. (1) The funds from the state budget for the state museums in the system of the Ministry of Culture, the Center for Underwater Archaeology, the Cultural Center St. Cyril and Methodius shall include funds for: 1. carrying out activities in the field of conservation and representation of cultural and literary heritage, fine arts, underwater archaeological research and library work; 2. realization of projects in the areas under point 2. 1, funded by the Ministry of Culture on a competition principle. (2) The funds from the state budget under para. 1, t. 1 shall be determined on the basis of funding standards approved by the Council of Ministers. (3) The standards of para. 2 are consistent with their national character. Art. 23f. The State Cultural Institutes under art. 23d, para. 1 apply a delegated budget system which allows the Director to: 1. dispose of the funds of the Institute on its own; 2. make compensated changes to the revenue and expenditure established by its budget, informing the Ministry of Culture thereof; 3. determine the number of staff and the remuneration of employees, subject to the standards laid down in the relevant regulations. Art. 23g. Except for the funds under art. The 23e Minister of Culture shall include in the budgets of the relevant state cultural institutes for the current year and expenditure on the account of: 1. the excess found at the end of the previous year of the proceeds over the payments of the relevant State Cultural Institute; 2. the own revenues of the state cultural institutes; 3. the funds provided by municipalities under concluded contracts; 4. the funds for the realization of creative programs and projects financed by the Ministry of Culture on a competition principle; 5. the funds under other programmes and projects under which the state cultural institutes are beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u686	Paragraph 4 to 8 statements? I won't. Anblok we vote paragraphs 4 to 8 including. Vote 124 MPs: 110 against 8, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u687	Paragraphs 9 to 16. The MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Krassimir Yankov, Dimitar Dubov, Philip Popov, Ivan Ivanov, Tasco Ermenkov and Atanas Zafirov, paragraphs 9 to 16 will be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposals. Proposals of the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov, Iskren Veselinov, Emil Dimitrov, Julian Angelov, Milen Mihov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Atanas Stoyanov, Sultanka Petrova, paragraphs 9 to 16 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposals. Proposals by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of Members of the National Assembly for paragraphs 9 to 16 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposals. Proposals of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Dimitar Glavchev to drop paragraphs 9 to 16. The Commission supports the proposals. A proposal by the National Representative Yavor Haytov to drop paragraphs 9 to 16. The Commission supports the proposals. A proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev to drop paragraphs 9 to 16. The Commission supports the proposals. The Commission does not support the importer's test and proposes that paragraphs 9 to 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u688	Statements? I won't. We are voting for enblock paragraphs 9 to 16 by importer to be dropped. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. [[Voices: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u689	Under § 17 there is a proposal from Vladislav Nikolov and a group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) The accrued revenue from the sale of the quotas under art. 57, para. 1 of the Law on Climate Change limitation for the period from 6 March 2015 to 24 July 2015 shall be imported by the Environmental Action Management Organisation in the Fund for Electricity Security by 31 December 2015. (2) For 2015 the foreign funds held by the Ministry of Energy Funds of the Fund shall be fully transferred by the Ministry of Energy to the public supplier under art. 93a of the Energy Act by 31 December 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u690	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 126 MPs: 107 against 17, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u691	Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In § 18, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (b) (g) (g) (g) (g) (i) (i) (ii) In order to prevent and address the consequences of disasters 120 000,0. 4.1.2. For additional fiscal measures 407 800,8. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for transfers granted to municipalities: for compensation due for electoral persons under mandate 2011 "2015' The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and 11.5 million. lv. for newly formed town halls for the months November and December In accordance with The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Mihail Mikov and The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 10, i.e. 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (c) Section II creates a new item. 4.1: "4.1. Under the central budget, 457,800,0 (d) in Section II of the Agreement, the previous paragraph. 4.1 is done. 4.1. and is amended as follows: For the prevention, management and overcoming of the effects of disasters 70 000,0 and 70 000; (e) Section II shall establish a t. 4.1.2: For additional fiscal measures 387 800,0
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u692	Statements? Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u693	Madam President, honourable Members! In essence, for the first time since Bulgaria's latest history, the budget update is proposed to pass along with the big budget, in this case for 2016. What's the problem? The problem is that the government until October 26th in dozens of interviews the minister of finance, MPs, committee chiefs, deputies, the prime minister said there were no prerequisites for an update, and after 12:00 on October 25th, after the elections it turned out that there was a need for an update that was nearly 1 billion. lv. This means that this proposal made a successful initial attempt to deceive the Bulgarian voters and the Bulgarian people. Why do you need this update when by October 25th it was said that everything was fine and there was no need to update? The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article They say about 480 million. lv. are necessary to finance European programmes. Ladies and gentlemen and Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov, did you find out on 26 October that Bulgaria is a member of the European Union and has programmes? How come ten months you didn't realize there were programs and that they would have to be financed and refinanced? Secondly, what has turned out to be, the Minister of Finance has very well said and I congratulate him here that 400 million. lv. are necessary in the update because the two defence ministers and the Ministry of Interior have not implemented the decisions of their own Council of Ministers and now we, taxpayers and their representatives here, will have to pay for the failure of reforms in the two ministries 400 million. BGN, ladies and gentlemen, for that someone refuses to execute the orders of the majority and the Council of Ministers. Is this the message to the government and other ministers for the next 2016? Where would taxpayers pay for your two ministers being incompetent or unwilling to implement the reform? In addition, why is it requested, honourable Members, an update of the budget following these huge revenue successes? Until a few minutes ago, it was repeated here a hundred times how some over two billion. lv. had come in revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u694	Two billion and 300 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u695	Well, if you've come more than 2 billion in revenue, why do you want an update on costs that exceed? That's amazing! Why not use this income to buy back debt, and instead you want the next three years of 5 billion and 300 million? By the way, it's not just politics here, guys. Such debt has never drawn Bulgaria since World War II! This is an absolute record in the history of Bulgaria for a year to draw 5 billion and 300 million. lv.! There is no such miracle, and it is not with these supposedly spectacular increases in revenue. So this is a balloon that can't be supported. Either one is true or the other. Finally, it is not important that you see, honourable Members, it is true, we have always sought to be objective. Updates of budgets are made, made in different countries, made in Bulgaria, but there are two factors to make an update of budgets. Firstly, a sharp change in the economic situation in our partners, in the case of the European Union. Are there any sharp deteriorations in the European Union and our partners? I won't. There is economic growth, averages, a relatively stable financial and economic system. Secondly, is there anything, thank God nothing happened, any natural disasters, some cataclysms, any problems in Bulgaria? There wasn't. Neither in Bulgaria nor in the main trade and economic partners of Bulgaria. Therefore, there is only one conclusion left.... the Ministry of Finance and the government did not make their account, they made mistakes in the estimates that cost us nearly 1 billion. lv. Absolutely against!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u696	Mrs. Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u697	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! If there is to be an update, the Bulgarian municipalities should be included. We all know that according to the Election Code we have about 1000 newly elected mayorships, for which no money is provided for the municipalities for November and December.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u698	Why are they chosen?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u699	Because last year's election code was changed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u700	Who changed it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u701	You had the opportunity to change it if you wanted us not to hold elections, but you did. You explained to the entire country that we would produce elections. Therefore, in the update I propose for additional transfers to the municipalities of 20 million, of which 11.5 for newly formed mayorships for salaries for November and December, and for the benefits of electoral persons for the 2011 mandate. "8.5. Another was the emergency and rehabilitation activities in the Bulgarian municipalities throughout the year. One large part of them has not been paid off, so I propose that the funds be increased by 50 million. Thus, there will be an opportunity to assume some delays that municipalities have undertaken in connection with the emergency recovery of damage from disasters and accidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u702	Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u703	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable colleagues! Since in my speech at the first reading of the State Budget Bill, I have paid attention to this part, I will now be relatively brief, I will use the second reading and specifically these texts, which update the State Budget Act for 2015, to remind again the House, the colleagues, the ministers who are here and the Prime Minister that this update is proof of the missing reforms or, more precisely, of the failure of reforms this year. This one, first. I can prove it specifically with the Ministry of Ministry numbers, but we do not need to do it now and here, and at this advanced time when we are at the end of the adoption of the Budget Act for next year. I would like to say quite constructively that much of this money is still going to alimony, although an essential part goes to euro programmes and so on and so forth. If the reforms are not started in the way that everyone expects, in the way you at least promised, next year there will be no.. I warn again the desired fiscal consolidation. There is no way in these bloated systems, and in the case of the full refusal of the ministers, if it is not, if it is unwilling, if it is incompetence, let us judge the Prime Minister next year we will be faced with the same status quo. This is why I use this second reading to warn once again the reforms are not being implemented, the government is failing to mobilise reformist resources. And I will say again that this warning is mainly to the Prime Minister and to colleagues from GERB, because they are responsible, not those who declare themselves reformers, but actually manage the main sectors that consume this resource and cannot shrink it due to lack of reforms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u704	Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u705	Dear Madam President, gentlemen and ladies ministers, colleagues! We have reached, albeit very tired, the most important text of the 2015 budget update. An innovation in the legislation for the first time in the State Budget Act update the old budget. It becomes a bad practice, but this is another topic. What do we have today? The good news was most of the revenue in the budget. When we voted on Budget 2015, we proposed an increase of 710 million You didn't accept it. You wanted the budget to be comfortable and secure so you could have something to brag about for a year and show a very good job. Here, today you update the budget with 720 million tax revenue! This is thanks to the measures taken in the front management, as much as you don't like it, and you don't want to admit it. There's nothing wrong with that. You can admit it. If you don't believe me, read Mr. Finance Minister's response to revenue measures. [[Shows it.]] Last year, in the update, you said that the update of the budget was a failure of fiscal policy. What is it today? Today's a success, great success! The Bulgarian people must pay for the carelessness of the ministers for failing to comply with the State Budget Act; for the carelessness of municipal and state officials who have not effectively managed European funds and have not fulfilled their agreement. Today we all have to pay for it. We can't support this update. I'm sure you don't expect anything else, but I gave you the reasons for that. The same is happening in this year's budget, which you are now adopting again without teeth planning revenue, again costs that cannot be justified. And the stable budget, supported by 5 billion and 300 debts, the realistic budget with unrealistic revenues, which you say will be with results, will have the mandatory update result. And Bulgaria will continue to be in this stagnation in which it is and in a debt crisis, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u706	There are no other MPs. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote Mrs. Yankova's proposal to amend § 18, even though she is also in the group proposing that § 18. Which one is true? The first one. We are voting in the light of the rules of our Rules of Procedure, first the proposal to dismiss § 18 as Mrs Yankova withdraws the proposal from this text. The Commission does not support Mr. Mikov's proposal and the rejection group of § 18. They voted 111 MPs: 40, against 52, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Genov. It will simply increase the difference between the.... and the..
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u707	Dear Madam President, Dear Ministers, Dear Members, Dear Mr. Tsvetanov [[crowd cheering, laughing]] Mr. Ivanov, I want a re-vote, I'm sorry I didn't mention it, because many of my colleagues couldn't exercise their votes. Apparently they were hungry and went to feed the bodies a little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u708	Name them!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u709	We're gonna lose a lot of time, Mr. Lazarov. I leave this engagement to you. So let everyone exercise their vote on one such innovation as the update of the budget, together with the new budget for 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u710	Revoting, coworkers! They voted 133 MPs: 38, against 79, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Mrs. Dora Yankova's proposal to amend § 18, which the Commission does not support. They voted 123 MPs: 25 against 71, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 18 by importer, which becomes § 10 in the report, together with the editorial proposals, as reported by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 138 MPs: 100, against 27, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Second.....................................)....................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u711	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, MPs! I voted against the proposed budget update. In addition to the reasons which were essentially put forward by previous speakers, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this text must also be rejected by legal arguments. This is a precedent in Parliament's practice.. a significant update of the budget for the current year to be proposed through the Budget Bill for the next year. This, Madam President, gave you reason to divert the overall Bill of Government because, so proposed, it is contrary to the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts. It is not acceptable, through the Budget Bill for the forthcoming year, to make changes in current expenditure. Or perhaps this push was made by the government to forget the Prime Minister's words told his ministers that those who offer him an update of the budget would have to offer him their resignations. Now I don't know if his resignation is up to date, but it's clear that a lot of things are said loudly and then practice disproves them. So let's, first of all, have enough public memory and, second of all, know the power of words. They are not simply saying something in the current surrender or meeting of the Council of Ministers, but should be behind what they really mean. These are the reasons by which I voted against the update of the budget, because it goes away with the initially requested intentions, because it goes away with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u712	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Chavdar Georgiev, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u713	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I also voted against it mainly because of legal arguments. I do not agree to an update of the budget at five, two weeks to five, before we conclude the implementation of this budget. [[Noise and lines.]] Understand, in this way we make no sense adopting budgets. Where is your implementation of this budget under the Law? He's gone. In general, your budgetary policy was wrong and we said so at the beginning of the adoption of the budget, and then we were against it, and we told you that this would happen. You didn't listen. You were on your way. This is how far you have come to admit that you have an untenable budgetary policy. With this budget for next year, you do the same. Colleagues, laws must be adopted as accurately as possible and be consistent with the public relations they regulate. If we continue to do so, we amuse the legislative process itself. The Council of Ministers will do whatever fiscal policy it wants, make whatever expenses and revenues it wants, end of the year we will approve them with such updates. Is that what we want? Therefore, I am strongly opposed to, and against, this update and against the budget that you are now imposing for next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u714	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Third negative vote.. People's representative Dragomir Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u715	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, dear Mr. Goranov! I voted against it not because of the legislation and the violation of the Law, but because the masks fell. One year you have convinced us how well the economy is moving, how well the state is going, almost every month what surpluses we accumulate, because you are dealing with another challenge because you have hardly had a bad legacy and how you have overcome it. One year, which was all yours, and finally you come at twelve to five and propose to the National Assembly to increase, notice, the deficit, given that it is about a right-wing government, a government that de facto has to reduce the deficit, and you come and say, "Look, we didn't do it, this one year we fooled you. Revenues were not what they are, now you have to vote on my increase in the budget deficit. That's what you did. Why did this circus take a year? Why was it necessary to deceive Bulgarian citizens? It was all dust in people's eyes. You didn't make it. There's nothing wrong with not having succeeded, but in the end, there's one thing that's shown that you've spent a year on a budget... No one is to blame for this thing. And a right-wing government increases the budget deficit and indebts the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u716	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. With this clear diction, you woke up the hall. Thank you. Mrs. Yordanova, will you report?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u717	Proposal for new paragraphs. Proposal of the MP Vladislav Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 11 and 12: ..................................................... In the Environmental Protection Act, in Chapter 7, Section IV with art. 142c canceled. § 12. The Bank Deposit Guarantee Act shall make the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 4 after the word "loans" shall be added "including for cases outside art. 18, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 shall be added at the end, as well as for the repayment of principal and interest on loans taken by the Fund. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the exception of § 9 and 10, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u718	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs with numbers 11 and 12, the supported § 19 by importer, which shall become § 13, and § 14 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 137 MPs: 114, against 22, abstention 1. Paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u719	Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 4. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for the Commission to assess the compatibility of the aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with the internal market. Proposal of the MPs Vasil Antonov and Atanas Zafirov: In Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 4 t. 1 For the support of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad and the priests working abroad and in the field of "Suma" the number "Supreme" is replaced by "Supreme" by "3 850,0" and the increase of the subsidy is used as follows: 1 500,0 thousand. BGN for the completion of the repair activities of the monastery "St. Georgy Zografs in Sveta Gora (Aton) and 500,0 thousand. BGN for repair and support of the Bulgarian church St. Constantine and Elena in Edirne, Greece. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u720	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u721	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Since colleague Atanas Zafirov is absent, I will try to fulfill his role, which is too noble in this case. What's this about? It's a million dollars. Five hundred thousand. lv. St. George Zograf in Athos and some 500 thousand. lv. for repair and support of the Bulgarian Church. Valentine's Day. Constantine and Elena in Adrianople. If this matter were addressed a year ago, I guarantee you, I might not have spoken and I would agree with you that there is no money in the budget. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u722	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u723	Please don't replicate me! If this was raised a year ago, I would agree with you, that money might not be necessary. But see how up-to-date theme is specifically for the church. Constantine and Elena. Just a month ago, if I am not mistaken, this was the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew who allowed himself, despite the honours given to him by the Head of State in the first place, to claim the removal of the monument of Antim I. Konstantin and Elena "in Adrianople," otherwise he threatened: "The measures will be imposed." Well, just three days ago, honourable Members, if you haven't noticed, just three days ago, according to eyewitnesses, Bulgarian tourists who were in this church in Adrianople were expelled by order of Bartholomew the Bulgarian priest from the service and in his place it was carried out in Greek by four Greek priests. Bartholomew's ultimatum was as follows: either you remove the monument of Antim I in the church of St. St. Konstantin and Elena, which we ask you to give only 500 thousand. BGN, or it will return to the domain of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, that is, it will not be a Bulgarian church. It's about Greekism, it's about Hellenization. As our colleagues here once said very well, the schism on the Bulgarian Orthodox Church has long since fallen since 1861, so that 500 thousand. lv. are so modest as the sum for the preservation of the Bulgarian church. St. Konstantin and Elena "from the invasion of the Elenas, of the Greek propaganda, which is revived in an extremely unpleasant way for us. In some ways, of course, with our participation, I am referring to the Bulgarian official institutions, unfortunately, and the Honorable Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which took part in this shameful spectacle in the face of its Chairman of the Academy. Here we lobby, please, we insist on this half million leva, so the initiative of Vasil Antonov and Atanas Zafirov is more than noble. She's cruelly pragmatic, and I'm asking you to comply. And for the next amount, the amount of 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. for the Bulgarian monastery in Athos. George Zograph, I would like to inform you that this is a monastery from the 19th century, if you do not know. The ninth century! And here there are claims of another Orthodox church to him. [[Noise and lines.]] If you do not know, to remind you to the right, from the Russian Orthodox Church, which only six years ago, if I am not mistaken, tried to take over the monastery with more monks who managed to install there, and only thanks to the rapid reaction of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church the monastery was saved. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Replies from the National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u724	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u725	I ask you very much to bear in mind this fact, mostly to my colleagues on the right, who are known for their attitude to this topic. It's really about a large amount of $1 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, but this is an amount for repair of the roof, for repair of the library with 100% Bulgarian book, and also for the burnt north wing, more known as the Bansko Wing. [[Noise and lines.]] In both cases, it is not brotherly when it comes to the Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage in these, to say it directly, sacred Bulgarian lands, which, by an unfortunate coincidence of circumstances, you know, just a few days ago the anniversary of the unfortunate New Year's Treaty has come to pass. I'm asking you very much to approach the state, not the party. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u726	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Honourable Members, allow me to remind you that the annexes technically reflect numbers that would possibly be accepted elsewhere on the budget. They have already been rejected, so all these arguments that you are now listening to or would eventually listen to are pointless. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u727	Just don't give them the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u728	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u729	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! That's exactly where I'm coming from. Why? Because I am the chairman of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and I would like to remind people who were not in the previous National Assembly, but now they are using this platform to speak on behalf of people from a party that was in power, you know, a year and a half ago, supported by the Ataka, which you also support, sir, very seriously. Then, in their government, the religious budget, notice, was 3 million. lv. We made the budget 4.5 million. I would like to say this so that you can see that we are taking all the necessary care, but depending on how much the state is able to help. On the other hand, who wants to help, I will go back to the previous populistic statements. I would like to remind you that GERB party has donated millions of levs to churches, bell towers, minarets and faiths. [[Applause from GERB.]] The party chairman Mr. Borisov personally donated thousands of levs from his own income and salaries for the churches and monasteries. Whoever wants to do it can do it. Stop with this populism and this concern for the Bulgarian church, for the Bulgarian history. Whoever wants can help, not the way you're trying to do it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u730	Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u731	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Velchev, I wouldn't speak, but there is a dose of cynicism in what you do. Mr. Enchev tells you about specific things that are not churches and minarets, but an attack against Bulgaria by the Ecumenical Patriarch. At least one of the GERBs had to get up...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u732	From the Soviet Patriarch?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u733	From the Universe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u734	Ecumenical, not Soviet. [[Laughs and laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u735	You know, you're listening to the Soviets. I know that most of you were party secretaries. [[Laughter and excitement. Replies from GERB.]] I know that most bells and bells of the Aurora ring in your head. [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter and excitement.]] Mr. Velizar Enchev is talking to you about something very specific. The other day I was there, there were other colleagues who were. We talked to Bulgarians who did not have the opportunity to hear the mass in Bulgarian. The one to whom your government has given the order has put there Greek priests are pushing the Bulgarian priest not to lead the service in Bulgarian language. You are the head of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The other day I asked another question to the Foreign Minister and do not behind the general donation acts you have to hide on this difficult problem for Bulgaria. This is the Bulgarian National Assembly still! When the Greek Patriarch does such things, you as chief of the Commission go and meet the Bulgarian community in Adrianople. That's not a random question. You can brag about your big donations. I will not say: go and ask there this church, whose stone was placed on 3 March 869... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] 1869, but on March 3rd, notice! On March 3rd, by chance, I kind of got a lot of years before the signing in San Stefano of the contract. This is a special place, and don't make fun of this job. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u736	Thank you, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u737	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I apologize that at this late hour, but this populism cannot remain so because people remember certain things. The important thing is to remember the truth, not the lie. First of all, the government doesn't give orders that you know very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u738	Read the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u739	Yeah, I've read the Law. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u740	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u741	The second thing about the churches that you are talking about and about these monuments of culture. I would especially like to inform my colleagues that I have asked the Patriarch and Synod to gather together and think about this case that you are talking about. There's no point in asking people these questions from here. We are doing our job, but do not forget anything else, just because you say about the law we have no right to interfere in the work of the churches. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] We need dialogue and reason, not populism and small talk. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u742	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Vasil Antonov and Atanas Zafirov, which is not supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 44, against 48, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 1 supported by the Commission in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 121, against 22, no abstentions. Annex 1 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u743	Annex 2 to art. 11, para. 5. Transfers from the Ministry of Defence budget to state universities for 2016 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2. Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4. Transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for State Higher Schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2016 Mr. Chairman, there are a lot of suggestions. But they're all the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u744	Let us first vote on Annex 2. Are there any statements on Annex 2? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 2 which is supported by the Commission and found its place in the report of the same Commission. We are voting on Annex 2 to the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 116 against 16, abstention 1. Annex 2 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u745	According to Annex 3 there is a proposal of Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs: In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 2, in row 15, the number (b) in column 2, in row 17, the number (c) in column 2, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal by Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, a proposal by Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs, a proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, a proposal by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, a proposal by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in column 2 of row 1, the number (b) in column 2 of line...... 456 The Commission does not support the proposals made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u746	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 134 MPs: 42, against 37, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u747	The other proposals from now on are identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u748	By the end are the proposals of the MPs Borislav Velikov, Mariana Georgieva Todorova, Mihov, Filipov, Stanilov, again Todorova, Mihov, Kuchukov, Nikiforov, Kadiev, the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, the proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, the proposal of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs who are identical. The Commission does not support them. We are voting on the unsupported proposals. They voted 136 MPs: 37 against 53, abstention 46. The proposals have not been accepted. We are voting on Annex 3 as an importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 116, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u749	Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (according to table attached.) Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: In Annex No 4, para. 1 - Subsidies for non-profit corporate entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2016, Section II - Subsidies for non-financial corporations, i.e. 3 National Railway Infrastructure Company (Railway Infrastructure) is replaced by the number "135 000" (Railway Infrastructure) is replaced by "146 000" (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) 3 National Company (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway Infrastructure) (Railway The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1 in Section II, "Subsidies for non-financial corporations'. Rows 4 and 5 are created. "4." For the Central Co-operation Union, the costs of maintaining legal bakerys for military time and disasters on the basis of art. 13, para. 1 in relation to art. 45, para. 1 and 3 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 5. For the Central Co-operative Union, to cover the transport costs of natural and legal persons for direct deliveries of bread, bakery products and basic groceries in mountain and small settlements with population of up to 500 inhabitants (excluding resorts) and 3600. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 4: Annex 4 to art. 49, para. 1: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (as per table).
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u750	Statements? Go ahead, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u751	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is wrong to vote on these proposals when they refer to the Annexes for the following reason. These are proposals which have been rejected or accepted to the Member concerned. If they've been rejected there, they can't be accepted here. The apps are an illustration of something already accepted. If a specific assumption has been accepted there, it shall result in the relevant systematic amendment to the Annex. Do you know what we're doing right now? If one of these proposals is accepted by chance, we should return the Law and reschedule it. It's just absurd. I am making you a procedural proposal that these proposals should not be debated at all, voted, accepted and rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u752	Mr. Tsonev, I would agree with you if that was the Commission's approach. Once the proposals have been reflected in the Commission's report, I am obliged to put them to the vote. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Here you are, for clarification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u753	Forgive me if I may be procedurally violating the regulations. The Commission's report must be reflected because if, in the course of the debate, any of the proposals that the Commission does not support but is adopted, then we will have to vote on the relevant proposal here and change the Annex as well. That's why...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u754	I take that as a procedure in the manner of conduct. I'm gonna take a few seconds to answer that. Neither I, as President, nor any of the Members with whom we collectively lead the plenary sitting today, have the possibility of such discretion, as such powers are not included in our Rules. Mr. Angel Naydenov had the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u755	Thank you, Madam President. I am trying to clarify the following issue on which we are creating a paradoxical situation as a National Assembly. It is true that it is a small sum that I even raise this issue with some inconvenience against the backdrop of the hundreds of millions and billions that are distributed through the budget. Look what it's about. The Central Co-operation Union by decree of the Council of Ministers of 2005 2008 as a legal entity, regardless of what the legal entity is, has been entrusted with certain wartime tasks. In this case, they are related to the maintenance of canned bakeries, which take into account the needs of the country if we are in war time. It's about 277 cockroaches. What does the CDC do where they have structures and where these bakeries are located? There is maintenance, respectively putting parts where necessary for their maintenance, buildings that are maintained in the same way. It's about the fact that under the Defense and Armed Forces Act, they have to do this sort of thing as an obligation. They appear in the country's wartime plans. The Interdepartmental Council of the Council of Ministers on Defence Industry and Security of Supply each year decides and says: according to the budget decision you must have such and such funds. In 2015, it was 510 thousand. lv. It's a small amount. Now we offer with a view to some inflation 512 thousand. lv. That's how much it costs. The paradoxical situation is that they must perform these tasks, they cannot deviate. Otherwise, the sanctions under the Defense and Armed Forces Act are much more serious than this money is concerned. And we don't vote their money. This is the paradoxical situation. Otherwise, in art. 1 decisions have been made on the large amounts. Yes, it is. The point is, there's no breakdown there. We're saying here what 500,000 should be provided for. lv. After all, 500,000. lv.! Mr. Goranov may already have figured out where he could get them. In this case, either we relieve the CDC of their obligations related to maintaining these wartime capacities or we vote on the funds to support them. We just need to get out of this paradoxical situation. Our proposal is to support, respectively, within the framework of the common funds, they can be easily found, there is a corresponding buffer from which they can be foreseen and allocated to the CDC. That's what I'm talking about. I'm surprised. Mr. Nenchev, come in, you sign these letters or your authorized deputy, who is a member of the Interdepartmental Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u756	Mrs. Ninova, last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u757	Colleagues, on the same offer. We propose to provide a cost of 3 and a half million for the CDC something that has been done 20 years by 2015. It is about State aid by assuming 50% of transport costs for bread and essential goods for 1646 small settlements with residents of up to 500 people. As I told you, this has been done for 20 years, for the first time you stopped it in 2015. Although in the budget the money for 2015 was recorded, a whole year, despite the attempts of many MPs from all parliamentary groups to get Mr. Goranov to provide these funds for 1646 villages, to which there is no way to reach bread the money had them in the budget, and he did not provide them with an argument: this is not the way, I have to make a public procurement and whoever wins the order, he has to deliver the bread. Okay, that's what we agreed to. But 2015 ran out of public procurement. You didn't do it. These villages were not provided with bread. The CDC did it on its own. People are responsible and they did it at their own expense. Now the money is sitting in the budget for 2015, you will spend it on something else, of course, but 1646 villages, where 10 people live, mountain villages, inaccessible, are left without bread and goods of primary need. Why did you do that? Because you didn't make your contract for a year. For 2016, that money is not even there. What do you tell these people in the villages? That they're not important. Politics again. You little ones aren't important. The big ones are important, and we're going to give them even more to make them bigger. You die, even without the most needed bread for the people. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Please accept this proposal to secure the funds for the CDC.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u758	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u759	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my opinion, everything that has been said is true except for two things. First, in these 1600 settlements probably within the year there was bread. Secondly, I do not know historically how the CDC was formed, but I do not believe that this is the only structure or state body, because the CDC is not a state authority, the sentiment that you are drawn to in solving this problem. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] The central cooperative union is likely to be a cooperative under the Cooperatives Act and is in no case a state body to implement state policy. So it's incredibly incomprehensible to me why it's been beating on the public representatives all year, that, you see, only the CDC can solve a possible problem. In any case, if there is a problem with supplies in small towns and this policy is recognised as state, it is not the State Budget Act that must regulate how logistics supply of goods is carried out. I hope that we have long realized that in Bulgaria the supply of goods is carried out on a commercial basis. If there is no supply anywhere, the state may compensate it through the appropriate mechanisms. If you want to propose appropriate legislative solutions to identify where there is no supply of goods and we fill this gap in the market, which I deeply doubt exists and to compensate for this problem. It cannot be constantly argued that a rather merchant-like organisation, albeit under the Co-operative Law, must be favored in the State Budget Act, so this is also a tradition. We are ready to provide resources to solve the problem if it exists for supplies of essential goods in settlements over 500 people without resorts. That's what it says in the definitions of the decrees that you're quoting. But agree with me that, first of all, it is not the work of the Minister of Finance; secondly, it is not the job of a legal fiction to define one or another organisation which claims that it must perform wartime tasks and necessarily it is a logistics supply of any commercial principle with any goods.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u760	Didn't you give them wartime assignments?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u761	So I propose that this debate continue, but not within the framework of the State Budget Act, not within the framework of the proposal to supplement this annex. If there really is such a problem or if we do not have a retrospective withdrawal of a traditional business of a particular commercial structure, to restore it, but on another mechanism. [[(Applause from GERB, shouts: "Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u762	Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u763	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable ministers of the majority, we will make this discussion come to these people accordingly. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] These people don't shop in Bila and in Metro, they don't shop in large retail chains, and there are no retail chains because there is no profit from it. And this grant, 20 years, traditionally, is what we give for it. It's clear, Minister, that they can mix bread at home. It is clear that this is also the solution to buy flour, chop wood and mix bread at home. However, the question is: is this what the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament propose as a policy? Is that what they're offering? Perhaps this discussion can be held on another occasion. You've been saving from these people this year's money. You also saved them with Djankov. And he didn't pay because these people don't exist for you. Because business comes first. The National Assembly, to which you have proposed to commit itself to verify which have no bread, is not your marketing agency. So let people solve their problems on their own, because with such a policy you say: "Dear citizens living in hard-to-reach and high-mountain places, this is not your country, this is not your government, these are not your MPs, these are some people who calculate everything through commercial profit. These are some wonderful businessmen. We'll do anything to get this to these settlements. With regard to the CDC, we will submit a bill once it is silent back here, your colleague, who did not come out to say: "We cancel the military duties of the CDC.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u764	He asked for the floor and will speak after you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u765	Why are you assigning them to him? It won't be the CDC's, give it to closer private companies, and you'll get a percentage from there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u766	Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u767	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, dear Mr. Naydenov, I was really particularly troubled tonight to find out exactly when you are speaking the truth. I listened carefully, and I have words for Mr. Gechev, who speaks of incompetence. Mr. Mikov, you are talking about the bread of the people, but I remember 1996 at that time and 1997 I was outside this room when your people stoned you because you stole the bread of the people then. [[Noise and lines in GERB. Unacceptable lines by BSP LB.]] Then you stole the people's bread! I want to know when you're telling the truth when it comes to the budget and the claims... [[Noise and disapproving lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u768	Please stick to the subject, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u769	Last night, you said to increase the defence budget, and today you say, "We have to cut it down, you have to make the necessary cuts." Mr. Mikov, I'm talking more about the right side of the room, the people who are active, because we believe in justice and morals, something that you obviously lack...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u770	Please, no personal insults and no qualifications, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u771	... and we will do everything we need to do to make Bulgaria a serious European country and not be dependent on corporate interests. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u772	Mr. Georgi Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, no yelling from the hall! There will be a procedure in the manner of conduct, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u773	Madam President, I'm doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. The question to the so-called Minister of Defence was to say his opinion on wartime stocks. Mr. Minister of Defence, you have proved by your current statement that you are harmful to the Bulgarian government. Give your resignation tonight!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u774	Colleagues, please, no qualifications. I've summoned the Minister, and I'm calling you, Mr. Svilensky. We're tired enough, guys. Please, no qualifications! For a personal explanation Mr. Angel Naydenov. After him, Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u775	It is difficult at this time to reduce the degree of emotions, but I will still try to get back to the question I raised. Of course, I didn't hear a reply from the minister. I hold before me a letter from the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u776	That's not a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u777	It's a personal explanation because I was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u778	Please don't engage in any altercations. It was personally mentioned by the Minister. I'm not gonna say it three times.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u779	In this letter addressed to the CDC, it states explicitly that, on the basis of the two decrees which I referred to, 2005 and 2008, according to a report by the Minister of Defence, the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply, respectively, makes an assessment, agrees the requests, which means that your representatives are involved there, Mr. Goranov. This is the decision of the Council of Ministers. So far since 2005, this thing has been going this way for 10 years. If you have another order, think of it or release the CDC from these obligations. These capacities are owned by the CDC. There's no one else to do it or anyone else to put that money in. If you have decided that this will be under the budget of the Ministry of Defence.........that I would not agree with....... to devote this money, this is the other side of the issue. You just have to make a decision today, otherwise there is no way for this activity to be carried out, since it is by decision of the Council of Ministers. She's not someone's fiction. We are not talking here about any other obligations, we are talking about obligations of the State entrusted to the CDC, whatever organisation the CDC is. That's what I'm talking about. Find a solution!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u780	Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u781	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I'm doing a procedure to end this debate... [[noise and disapproving lines from BSP LB, applause from GERB]] because the positions and details of this issue have become clear. Besides this clarity and deep detail,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u782	We understand your proposal, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u783	... I fully support the logic that Mr. Tsonev developed in his previous procedural proposal and his logic is correct. In the annexes, we can only discuss proposals if they have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u784	Mr. Kirilov, I have spoken on this matter, so it is acceptable that you...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u785	You've been mispronouncing yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u786	You have no procedure to question my decision. A counteroffer of Mr. Kirilov's admissible procedural proposal to end the debate? We're listening, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u787	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Members of Parliament, I am proposing that we do not end this discussion and I will say why. This is about Bulgarian citizens in small mountain settlements. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] It is about the responsibility of the Bulgarian state, which we have delegated to the Bulgarian government. And it comes down to it, fellow Members, we here to clarify it as MPs, do we represent these people and do we want the government to do its job, do we want this to happen in the country? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u788	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u789	The situation in which the state is in, God forbid, let's go into wartime. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] What, are we gonna close the bakery? I would like to invite Minister Goranov to come to Peshtera, come to Turyan and tell the people who are seven, eight, ten in the small neighborhoods, make a public procurement and find these particular companies in the Rhodopes to carry the bread.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u790	Mr. Mikov is committed to a legislative initiative, Mrs. Yankova. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the MP Mihail Mikov: No, no!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u791	I want to ask you: do not abandon the people of the mountains without bread. At the moment, you are speaking in a market, irresponsible manner, and you are being kept away from the people that we all represent in a different way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u792	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. Vote 146 MPs: 122, against 23, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The debate is over, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karakachanov and a group, the Commission does not support it. They voted 129 MPs: 32, against 37, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group, the Commission does not support it. They voted 145 MPs: 43, against 64, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Annex 4 by importer, edited by the Commission. They voted 147 MPs: 121, against 19, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u793	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! By this decision you withdrew the responsibilities of the state, which it has carried out for more than 20 years. I am from the Veliko Tarnovo Election Region and I will give you an example of only one of the municipalities in our electoral area of Elena Municipality, where there are 124 settlements. Only seven of these settlements have more than 100 inhabitants. In all the others live people of two, three, ten, tops, to 50. These people have been supported by the state for decades by taking part of the transport costs in order to be able to drive bread and essential goods. I want to tell you that those who are doing this work right now have not withdrawn from their duty, as the state does. On the contrary, so far, including until December, they supply people with bread and essential goods, but they do so at their own expense. These are representatives of the Central Cooperative Union on the territory of the municipality, and not only in Elena, but in Zlataritsa, and in Veliko Tarnovo municipality. So when decisions are made, we must really think about people and what consequence the National Assembly's decisions may have on their lives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u794	Will there be a second negative vote? I won't. Annex
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u795	Annex 5 to art. 49, para. 2 "Capital transfers to non-profit legal entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2016" according to the attached table. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: In Annex 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 2 Capital transfers for non-profit corporate entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2016 and Section I Capital transfers for non-financial corporations, i.e. 3 "БДДДЗ ".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. 35,000. lv. and shall be added t. BDZ 30,000. lv. (borrowing funds for the motor vehicle "Symens"). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: In Annex 5 to art. 49, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. in Section II. "Capital transfers to non-financial corporations': (a) in row II. Capital transfers to non-financial corporations and non-financial corporations are replaced by a total amount of EUR 151,000. (b) in row 3. The number is "30 000 000,0" and is replaced by "60 000,0" by BDZ. 2. in line "Everything', last for the application, the number..152 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u796	Statements? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u797	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Unlike the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport has a minister who understands the responsibilities entrusted to him. The proposal we have made corresponds to the proposed by BDZ and approved by the Ministry of Transport Development Strategy of the Bulgarian State Railways. It is a question of the amount of the EUR 30 million to be replaced by EUR 60 million. It's money to buy new rolling stock. I hope Mr. Goranov now comes out after me and tells me clearly whether he accepts this amount, or if we leave again... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] We didn't have this debate. [[Reply from rapporteur Diana Yordanova.]] Please don't suffocate from place. This amount has not been voted anywhere in the tables and, as Mrs Tsacheva said, can be put to the vote and to change, so do not contradict the Rules on which we are working. Mr. Goranov, I really want your opinion on the proposal. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u798	There are no other MPs. The debate is closed. We vote, fellow Members. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karakachanov and a group, the Commission does not support it. They voted 127 MPs: 37 against 36, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Mikov's proposal and group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 119 MPs: 20, against 67, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Annex 5 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 120 MPs: for 107, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u799	Annex 6 to art. 50 Mechanisms for the determination of subsidies to municipalities from the central budget for 2016 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u800	We are voting on Annex 6. They voted 120 MPs: 111, against 7, abstention 2. Annex 6 is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u801	Annex 7 to art. 51: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Value indicators of municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2016 (non-capital expenditure) s) according to the table applied. II. Natural indicators of municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2016 There is a proposal from the MP Zelenogorski and group: In Annex 7 to art. The following amendments shall be made to Section I of Section I: (a) in the field of. (a) Expenditures for State-sponsored activities. (b) The number of.22 222 918,7 " is replaced by...2 239 [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President! Quiet, please! They're gonna tell me again that I'm moaning, that I haven't heard anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u802	Colleagues, please, the rapporteur cannot concentrate and report the text! I can't hear you! Order! Order! Order!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u803	(b) in the column "7." Цидужд, the number "87 627.7" is replaced by "104 491.7."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u804	Mr. Merdjanov! Mr. Merdjanov! The debate is held by the stands, not by the seat! Mr. Merdjanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u805	The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Yavor Haytov and group: In Annex 7, to art. 51 the following additions and amendments are made for Vratsa region: Roman, 1. Value indicators of municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2016 - in section 2 - Municipal administration, Roman - to increase by 12 000 BGN. and acquires the following type: 440,9. - in the "Education" section, Roman - to increase by 37 000 BGN. and acquires the following form: 1483,3. - in the section "social care" Roman - to increase by 211 000 BGN. and acquires the following form: 945.7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Todorova and group: In Annex 7 to art. 51 - The values of the municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2016 to be amended as follows: The sum of the activities delegated by the State /column 1/ the number 2 222 918.7 becomes 2 239 782.7 due to the proposed increase in the cost of culture in /column 7 the number 87 627.7 becomes 104 491.7. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Haytov and group: In Annex 7, to art. 51 the following additions and amendments are made for the city Krivodol, round. Vratsa: I. Value indicators of municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2016 - in Section 2 of the Municipal Administration, Krivodol - to increase by £36,000. and acquires the following type: 570.0; - in the Social Care Section, Krivodol - to record 392 thousand BGN. II. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: It accepts the amounts of the budgetary relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities for 2016 in the form of subsidies under a mechanism under Annex No 6 and by species and by municipalities. The following additions and amendments are made for the town of Krivodol, round. Vratsa: - in the section................................................................................................ 42,0 thousand. lv. The amount is for flood prevention and the target subsidy for capital expenditure to acquire the following type 356,8. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u806	Statements? I won't. The debate is over. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support it. They voted 116 MPs: 17 against 43, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Yavor Haytov's proposal and group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 115 MPs: 12, against 43, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We now vote on Mariana Todorova's proposal and group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 113 MPs: 13 against 24 abstentioned 76. The offer is not accepted. Again a proposal for other municipalities of Mr. Haytov and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 119 MPs: for 9, against 46, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Annex 7, supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u807	Annex No 8 to art. 54 The maximum permissible amounts of the obligations to suppliers as of 31 December 2016 of the authorising officers with a budget under art. 13, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. According to the attached table. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u808	I shall put to the vote Annex No 8 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 116, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Minister Goranov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u809	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am using the seconds before the last vote for this one minute, which is due to the importer, in which to thank you, because probably after the end of the debate the colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria could not wait for it, you will quickly leave in the late hours of December 2nd. I want to thank you for the quality of the debate. It probably contributed to the adoption of the budget as proposed by the government. I would also like to thank the opposition and, above all, the partners who support the government. [[Radio.]] Don't you support the government? It's a good budget. Maybe not the best, but the budget is good. Because it retains the low tax burden because it limits the debt burden because it ensures the successful functioning of the state and society. Mostly because it gives the Bulgarian citizens perspective for stability. Thank you again! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u810	Mrs. Yordanova, Annex No 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u811	Annex 9 to art. 84, para. 1. "List of accounts for European Union funds for which in 2016 The Council of Ministers will approve annual reports. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 9 and the words to art. 84, para. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u812	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote what Mrs. Yordanova reported. Vote 128 MPs: for 123, against 3, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. [[People's representative become, lively, applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u813	I thank all my colleagues for the constructive debate on behalf of the Budget Committee. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, negative vote by Mr. Enchev under Annex No 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u814	On behalf of the opposition! [[Loud noise, lines, voices by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u815	Colleagues, please take your seats! Mr. Enchev, the vote is only as per Annex 9. I accept a negative vote under Annex 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u816	All over the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u817	You can't talk about the entire budget, there's no such procedure. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u818	Okay, Annex No 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u819	If you are speaking under Annex No 9 I seriously doubt that you have it in front of you and you know what it is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u820	I want to talk about...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u821	There's no possibility because there isn't one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u822	How can there not be one? It's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-12-02.u823	I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[Loud noise, screaming.]] Tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. regular plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
