ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, I offer to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 28 to 30 October 2015. After the meeting of the Conference of Presidents earlier this morning, the Programme Project looks like this: 1. Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission on the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for permission to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, MPs in the 43rd National Assembly. Importer Tsetska Tsacheva, Chairman of the National Assembly. 2. First vote on the Public Procurement Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 6. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January - 30 June 2014 and Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July - 31 December 2014. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media. 8. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statement for the months January - December 2014. Import is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 9. New discussion of the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 1 October 2015 and returned for a new discussion with Decree No 197 of 14 October 2015 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 122 against 9, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal from Mr. Mihail Mikov was submitted by Mr. Mikov, Chairman of the SG of BSP left Bulgaria, who proposed on behalf of the parliamentary group as a point on the agenda of the National Assembly for this week to include the First Voting of the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax, No 5554-01-130 of 8 July 2015, with importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, over 50% of children in Bulgaria live in poor families, poor within the meaning of the criteria that you know what they are in European and worldwide. The revenue for the budget from value added tax on children's foods, the so-called "transitional foods', on the equipment for children, on diapers, is negligible against the backdrop of the great successes in the treasury of smuggling. Disparaging little man! It's about a few tens of millions, and less. Bulgaria faces a severe demographic disaster in the short term. All this urgently requires the National Assembly and the government to give a signal to the parents who in these difficult times raise their children. There's a way to get it. The only question is a conscious child support policy to stimulate raising children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u3	Colleagues, I vote on the proposal for inclusion in our weekly programme as a point: First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. Importers are Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 149 MPs: for 72, against 52, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, I ask that all who are in this Chamber, and they are more than the voters, state their attitude on this issue, which, again, I say is not only the Bulgarian Socialist Party. It is the attitude of the National Assembly towards raising children, especially in poor families, especially when child support is extremely insufficient. Let us solve a question that is really important for the future of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u5	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 158 MPs: 78 against 55, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 7 to 27 October 2015: Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and complaints by citizens and the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the War Veterans Act. Importer Miho Mihov and group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer "Krasimir Velchev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer "Krasimir Velchev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers "Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev." The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer Peter Slavov. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importer s Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act "National Security." Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law on the ratification of the General Agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria on the provision of advisory services on the establishment of the Fund Fund and Manager of the Funds for the implementation of the financial instruments under the European Union Operational Programmes for the period 2014-2020. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on Foreign Policy is attached. Draft Law on the ratification of Protocol No 15 amending the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 5 November 2013. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers "Niden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and draft strategies for sustainable management in the hydromeliorative sector and to protect against the harmful effects of water between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 20 March 2014, signed on 24 July 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers - Krasimir Velchev, Borislav Velikov, Miho Mihov and Valeri Simeonov. Draft decision for the establishment of a temporary commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov, MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly. Importer Tsetska Tsacheva. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 15 October 2015, Decree No 197 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution, which the National Assembly adopted on 1 October 2015. The Military Intelligence Act returns for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the committee responsible for the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, to report to the MPs the President's decree and the reasons for it. On 12 October 2015 in the National Assembly with Vh. No. 527 00 5 and Ix. No 527-00-6 has received requests from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions against the MPs Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. The same were made in connection with pre-trial proceedings, No 513-CEM-292/2015, according to the description of the SDVR; file, No 18102/2015, according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for crimes committed by them, described in the specific parts of the requests. Second, on 26 October 2015 in the National Assembly with Vh. No 527-00-7 and Ix. No 527-00-8 has received other requests from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permissions to excite criminal prosecutions again against the MPs Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov. The same were made in connection with pre-trial proceedings No 225-CEM-2926 from 2015 according to the description of the First Police Department, a prosecutor's file, No 18374 from 2015, according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for crimes committed by them, described in the specific parts of the requests. Each request shall also make proposals to grant authorisations for the detention of Members of the National Assembly in the relevant criminal proceedings. On 26 October 2015, the President of the National Assembly informed the Members of the National Assembly in writing of the requests received and the opportunity to get acquainted with them and the attached materials subject to the terms of the Personal Data Protection Act. All requests have been sent to the MPs of their e-mails; the parliamentary groups have been made available in paper form and the Members concerned have been given the opportunity to meet them in due time after the requests have been made. By letter No 554-00-665, dated 12 October 2015, the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Borislav Milanov, Boris Velikov, Rumen Hristov, Korman Ismailov, Antoni Trenchev, Boyka Marinska, Nastimir Ananiev, Nikola Hadzhiyski, Boris Stanimirov, Dimitar Shishkov informed me that on the grounds of art. 82 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have withdrawn the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Administrative Procedure Code with entry No 554-01-158, submitted on 24 September 2015. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on consumer price indices for September 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has received a final audit report No 0600200915 with the Opinion on the Audit of the Review for the Implementation of the Central Budget and the Report on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. The report is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest a t. 9 which is the last of the adopted agenda to be rescheduled for the next week. It concerns a new discussion of the Military Intelligence Act concerning Decree No 197 of the President of the Republic. Motives and arguments. I attended the 20th during the normal period of the discussion of the President's Decree in the Commission for Control of the Services. A thorough but painful meeting took place in the absence of many MPs. So is the current week, relatively election year. In addition, the President has allowed himself to qualify in an election period for military personnel from air, military and other types of armed forces with regard to their capabilities. I believe that next week the National Assembly will ferment this topic a little better and it would be better to accept and discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u7	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Mihov's proposal. In essence, it is about dropping the point from the weekly programme and including it in the next week's programme. We vote. They voted 140 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I am proposing to postpone the examination of this point. 1 of the proposed agenda with the inclusion of... [[Sighs:.. Higher!.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u9	Colleagues, if the silence in this Chamber is such that we respect each other and hear the people's representative speaking in the stands, they will be able to hear everyone. Please, a little higher.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u10	Yes, thank you. I suggest a t. 1 of the agenda to become part of the National Assembly's programme for next week. I am referring to the following considerations which I set out this morning during the Conference of Presidents and which relate to editorial ambiguity to an extent which undermines the examination and adoption of any decision within the framework of which the weekly programme offers us. I'm paying attention to the editing of this. 1. We must adopt a decision to set up a Temporary Commission on Prosecutor General's requests to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Siderov and Desislav Chukolov, granting permissions in general, granting permissions on requests that are not defined and individualized. What does that mean, colleagues? To make decisions and from now on, such proceedings can be formed without regard to their subject matter and without regard to the discussion of specific materials. It is true that the proposed materials for consideration and introduction of the MPs speak of two groups of requests that are divided into items. 1 and c. 2. I firmly submit that the request under point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been lodged before the date of entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty'), on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') on the Functioning of the European Union'), on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union'), on the Functioning [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This issue must definitely be put to discussion in the Legal Commission. Matter is specific, matter requires precision, requires a solution that does not violate the Rules and Constitution. Please postpone the examination of the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u11	Mr. Notev, time has passed for your procedural request. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Notev to drop the item. 1 to set up a commission on the demands of the Attorney General from our weekly program. They voted 141 MPs: 12, against 110, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to the dots of our weekly program. PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE REQUESTS OF THE GRAND PROCURER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA TO GIVE RESPONSIBILITIES TO REFUNSE INDICATORS AGAINST A VOLEN KIKOLOV WITH A LEADER AND A RESPONDED GLAV CHukOLOV, PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES IN THE 43rd PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Importer: Tsetska Tsacheva, Chairman of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As it became clear from the messages that I introduced you to the agenda for this plenary week, on 12 October 2015 the National Assembly received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give consent from the National Assembly to provoke criminal proceedings against two MPs. This is Mr. Volen Siderov and Mr. Desislav Chukolov. At the time of the Chief Prosecutor's request with a deliberate decision of the National Assembly, plenary meetings were not held, but we are in the hypothesis of a regular session of the National Assembly starting from September until Christmas. I would like to clarify the two hypotheses that have become controversial in the media.....can the President give sole consent to the demands of the Attorney General or not? According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, when a request is made during a regular session of the National Assembly, it must be discussed by the National Assembly and given a deliberate decision. Only in the regulations of the National Assembly, these are the Christmas, Easter and Summer in August, if then there is such a request, the President of the Assembly shall rule on it and he shall be obliged at the first regular meeting of the Parliament to inform the Members of the National Assembly. Once again, as we are in the case of a working National Assembly, in a regular plenary session, according to the Rules of Procedure, the request could not be submitted earlier than a 14-day period for discussion and voting in plenary. It is not, however, an obstacle to setting up a Temporary Commission to get acquainted with the requests received, with the evidence on them, to issue an opinion on each particular individual request against a Member of the National Assembly and on a specific proposal from the Prosecutor General and to propose draft decisions, as well as individual and individual, for voting in the Chamber. That is why I am offering your attention a draft decision, which I will give you and will introduce you. However, I would like to draw attention to something else. On Monday, on 26 October, two more requests were received from the Prosecutor General regarding the same MPs for other crimes of the MPs in time after the request of 12 October. With regard to the new proposals of the Prosecutor General, there is no obstacle to them being included as the subject of the Commission's work, whose creation I propose to you, but in respect of them the term under art. 134, para. 5 of our Rules. That is, the requests made to the National Assembly on 26 October cannot be voted as draft decisions before the expiry of this 14-day period. It is given, as we all know, in order to enable the Members of Parliament concerned to give their own consent in writing to remove their criminal integrity as provided for by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure. We have a public statement from both Mr. Siderov and Mr. Chukolov that such voluntary written consents will not be given, which is why I suggest to your attention the following: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission on the Demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, MPs in the 43rd National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 in relation to Art. 134, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission with the task of examining whether there is sufficient evidence of committed crimes of a general nature on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for: 1.1. Authorizing to excite prosecution against the National Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov, vh. No 527-00-5 of 12 October 2015; 1.2. Granting permission to excite prosecution against the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov, ov. No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015; 1.3. Authorizing to excite prosecution against the National Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov, vh. No 527-00-7 of 26 October 2015 and authorising its detention under the criminal proceedings described in the request; 1.4. Granting permission to excite prosecution against the MP Desislav Slavov Chukolov, ov. No 527-00-8 of 26 October 2015 and authorising its detention under the criminal proceedings described in the request. 2. The Commission shall submit a report on its activities containing separate opinions and separate draft decisions on requests made by the Prosecutor General, including proposals for authorisations for the detention of Members of the National Assembly in the relevant criminal proceedings. 3. The Commission shall consist of 17 Members of the Parliament of two Members of the Parliament from each Parliamentary Group and one Member of Parliament who shall not be members of a Parliamentary Group. 4. He's electing a committee member. Accordingly, the President is looking forward to proposals, and members of the other 16 are expected from the total number of MPs. 5. The temporary committee is elected for a period of 7 days. " - Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u14	Members of the Parliament, I have already expressed considerations against the legality of the proposed decision. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u15	Excuse me, Mr. Notev. Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u16	As a continuation of his considerations... [[Noise.]] Please note, these are things that affect each and every one of us and an institute that will be commented on the plane of proposed amendments to the Constitution. The proposed decision shall include points relating to the formation of criminal proceedings, consent to this and permission to detain Members of the National Assembly upon request, which was received only two days ago in the National Assembly's case-law. If we have to closely follow the Rules, the Constitution of the People's Republic of Bulgaria is an opportunity to discuss and take a legitimate decision of the parliament on the proposal, which has been made for points one and one and two related to pre-trial proceedings, which has been formed and vitiated in the request of the Prosecutor General on 12 October. The 14-day deadline for this request has expired. During this 14-day period, the MPs have not voluntarily refused their immunity, which is why it is perfectly acceptable and possible to establish a temporary committee of inquiry. I put aside the question that investigative actions have been carried out during this time, note, colleagues, against an unknown perpetrator with immunity. If this is not a circumvention of the law, of immunity and the rights posed by it, there is no other illustration to be made for these actions, but they are subject to another assessment within the criminal proceedings themselves. As regards the request of 26 October, which first raised the question of the detention of MPs, two days have passed since then. The fourteen days must, of course, be filled with their content and the purpose of making it possible for persons whose immunity is sought, without regard to their public statements, because they have absolutely no legal value. If, on the 13th day, each of them gives up his immunity, it is open to criminal proceedings. One more thing. Detention as a measure of non-violence cannot be considered as a decision separate from the decision to initiate criminal proceedings. If the parliament does not grant permission, it does not consent to waiver of immunity on this request, of course, that detention cannot follow because it is not a measure existing outside and regardless of that particular production. This is what I meant when I said that these legal problems are specific, they are professional and they need to be dealt with in advance in the Legal Commission, once they do not reach the capacity to formulate a very, very clear and concrete proposal for the wording of the decision. I am telling you: a proposal in principle for criminal proceedings to be initiated against two MPs, without individualising the occasions and requests, is unacceptable. Ms. Tsacheva was extremely formal and precise when she explained the difference between Parliament not meeting the two weeks during the election campaign and the holidays provided for in the Rules. Let us so formally and rigorously distinguish the hypotheses that he has in mind - the Rules and the Constitution, when we talk that there are certain deadlines that they are in favour of those who enjoy immunity and that they are entitled, throughout the period until its expiry, to take account of and exercise this right. The difference between the hypothesis of refusal of immunity and forced waiver of immunity is radically different. You know that Mr. Siderov already did this, he refused his immunity on the occasion of a previous request for his removal a while ago. That is why this hypothesis is neither excluded nor impossible to comply with what the Rules and Constitution require and prescribe as the conduct of our authority, the legislative authority. We can't give up the rules. So we're going to suggest editing point one and it boils down to this. The decision will have to be limited in the proposal contained in point one: it creates a temporary commission with the task of examining whether there is sufficient data to commit a common crime according to the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for permission to give an excitation of prosecution to the People's Representative Volen Siderov with an inch. No 527005 of 12 October, etc. 1.2 " Granting permission to excite prosecution against the People's Representative Desislav Chukolov. No: 527006 of 12 October and not another word in this decision because the time limit has not expired. We are faced with a hypothesis that forbids us from getting ahead of events, getting ahead of this deadline, and taking the floor instead of those whose interests are affected by such decisions. The deadline is agreed for their benefit, public statements, again I say, are without legal value, they can be changed until the expiry of the period and this is alphabetical truth in law. I demand that a decision be adopted only with the restriction which I have already indicated - i.e. 1.2, we will present it in writing as a proposal and leave it without consideration of the points that are in the following points and which are irrelevant to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u17	1.3 and 1.4?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u18	1.3 and 1.4, yes, Mr. Chairman. They are uninherited and brought to the attention of the House in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u19	But will the Commission's reporting obligation remain in second place?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u20	The Commission is set up, of course, with an obligation to report. Again, I'm going to put it in writing so it's completely correct. It needs re-editing and the title...................................................................................................... At the same time, he's really embarrassed by his general statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Notev. I would ask you to really present the proposal in writing. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u22	Dear Mr. Notev, dear colleagues! I strongly object to your suggestion that the draft decision establishing the Commission violates provisions of the Rules of Procedure or the rights of the Members of the National Assembly. Parliamentary practice has had similar cases when several signals were received against a Member of Parliament over time, several demands more precisely by the Prosecutor General. The provision of our Rules and this 14-day period, as I stated at the presentation of the draft decision, concerns only a ban on the plenary to vote on a decision to give consent to arouse criminal proceedings or detention. However, there is no obstacle to the request of the Prosecutor General to include them in the Commission and not every day to set up a committee. A committee may and is obliged to rule on any specific.. here I agree with you.. at any specific request and to propose to the plenary a specific draft decision for a ruling. The rest you offer us means further harassment of the National Assembly, further decline of the authority of the National Assembly. I think that in the assumptions we are in right now, we are obliged to give our consent to the beginning of this Commission's work. Again, in plenary, the draft decisions by the Commission and its opinions will be put on the agenda and voted when the provisions of the Rules are met.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Notev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u24	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva! If there was another request from the Attorney General tomorrow, I was told that it was the idea of fellow lawyers to make a decision that would hypothetically involve these changes in the subject of the Commission, so that we would not harass the House and not make any decision. It's a serious question. The deadline has not expired and this is more than obvious. There is no way for a committee to deal with a matter that may not reach and not enter the plenary. The Commission will work, discuss, propose and hold, and may ultimately follow a waiver of immunity, which is unknown how these things will develop over time. So let's work with reality, let's work with facts, we're lawyers. We're out of time. That period shall also give the House a single issue of competence and shall be linked to the first request of the 26th. Everything else is a hypothesis. We have no right to talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u25	October 12th.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u26	Since October 12th, excuse me, yes, thank you. The 14-day deadline has expired for this only. If the Commission is formed and dealt with after the expiry of the period of the 26th 14th day period, and there is still no waiver of immunity, there is no problem and no harassment for the House to take an additional decision and to decide whether the same composition of the Commission will deal with the next issue and problem. If assigned to this Commission, the work simply goes on. That's my offer. This is strict compliance with the law, which is our obligation as a legislative body and as lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Any other speeches? Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u28	Within three minutes, of course, I can't say much, but so far there have been legal arguments. They understood that this decision at this first point, which Mrs Tsacheva is now defending, is a violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. So the President of the National Assembly is proposing that the House violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure because he wants who, Mrs. Tsacheva? Just say, "Who?" The question that has affected the public all year long. Who says today to violate the Rules and Constitution to condemn Siderov? Because your legal arguments don't hold. It is also clear that from now on, the requests presented are extremely vicious, I will introduce each parliamentary group to how Mr. Tsatsarov's request of 12 October 2015 stepped on a forgery, on a judicial expert who is not entitled to practice and is on leave of four months. Is that what you want my immunity from? So if the law is violated, then the National Assembly becomes the People's Court. Think about whether you want to be People's Court! You know what's next for the story. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, this is not about sympathy and antipathy. This is really about upholding the law. If Bulgaria is still the rule of law, then whether anyone has committed a crime, what it is and how to be punished decides only the Court of Justice. Isn't that right, Mrs. Tsacheva? Isn't that right, ladies and gentlemen of the court? You put me on trial, the media put me on trial, and now you want me here as a People's Court, really, if I may, to be handcuffed and arrested. All right, let's do it, and you'll probably do it again, crushing the Constitution and the law. But then it will become really clear that in Bulgaria there is no legal order and whatever you ordered "Who?" it becomes a reality here. Think about whether you want to be part of such a National Assembly because you know that everything comes back when you break the law to please other people's embassies and people who get revenge, because I put my hand in the wound, and for three weeks I've been showing how in the center of Sofia you can buy drugs, I've shown how you can safely go to a restaurant, a shop, and buy drugs, and all of that seems to hurt someone's interests. I gave in my transmission a documentary account of how all this was protected by senior officers. If you're not interested in this, please remove Siderov's immunity, arrest him. But if you are not interested that in Sofia this wonderful city to live in, in which you won the elections, but let's talk about how, and what happened in the hall, if you are not interested that in Sofia there are dozens of dealers who freely sell drugs in schools and educational institutions, and in the institution in question, which now fills the media with its importance, the Theatre Academy, there is a free sale of drugs. This is what I will continue to establish, this is what I will continue to expose because it is about the future of Bulgaria. And whether I'm wrong or right, let's still leave it to the Court of Justice. Can the court rule, and in three instances, if I may? I know some people are in a hurry, they want to see me disgraced and humiliated, you've already seen me. I know that some of you approve that whoever wants can come and hit me when policemen hold my hands there are such heroes, yes, I know that it pleases some, someone's souls, but don't let the spite and gloat because it's a very bad guide in life. Thank you for your attention. I reserve the right to make a statement from a group, if I may, after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u29	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, the National Assembly must decide whether to support the proposed Project for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I'll support him myself. I will also support him as a victim of the hooligan acts of this parliamentary group, because I have been hit much harder with a megaphone to my right ear, which, according to doctors, is equivalent to a blow with a steam hammer, [[ENGINE IN BSP LB]] , damaged auditory nerve, proven by undisputed medical records. But that's not what's important right now. Dear colleagues, these acts of hooliganism of this parliamentary group are not from yesterday. I have repeatedly put these questions before the relevant interior ministers. For the first time, I put this question to Minister Bakalov, insisting on giving an account of what has been taken of these actions and what has been done as preventive action not to repeat this thing. I have put this question before the former Minister Vuchkov in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u31	Mr. Bayraktarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u32	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u33	I'm going to interrupt because we're discussing another occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u34	Yes, I am arguing precisely why this decision should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u35	We're discussing the Attorney General's demands.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u36	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u37	And I'm guessing not on your case.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u38	We are discussing the establishment of a group to consider the request of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u39	A committee, more like.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u40	This is what we are discussing at the moment, and at the request of the Attorney General. This question was also asked to the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. I'll remind you of the cases. Apologize with colleague Theodor Angelov from the TV SKAT. There was no action. I will recall the case of blocking SKAT TV and now, pay attention, there were hooligans and faces without immunity. But they didn't get arrested, nobody called them in. The same case is repeated once, twice at NATFIZ. Invasion of property, obstruction of learning process, also by individuals, well-formed physically, muscles, no actions. We pay attention to these things because we will support the creation of this Commission. But we also want preventative action that will no longer allow such hooligan events, denigrating the supreme institution called the National Assembly, and this is much more important. Because when the inaction of the institutions stimulates such events today it will be one, tomorrow it will be another, there will always be someone to perform those, with an excuse for the expression, circuses, ugly circuses, to denigrate the authority of this institution. Let us not forget that Bulgaria is the Republic with parliamentary rule and this is extremely important. So I argued in more detail to make it clear. Because now there's a bunch of people out there who are deluded, who are told that someone is going to be arrested. No, no one will be arrested right now. This is important to know, and that someone is afraid that they have committed serious crimes because of art. 325, para. 2 of the Penal Code is in the column of serious crimes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u41	Court says so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u42	So it is also important to know and it must never be allowed to be repeated. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva. [[Descriptions from DPS: No time.]] They do, they asked for an extension. You have the floor, Mrs. Tasheva. You have almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u44	Thank you. I would like to address the patriotic front: a very inappropriate speaker you have chosen for the thesis you must defend. I am here with a publication from 2014, from which it is clear that your colleague Bajraktarov was convicted of beating an official, I think his name was Indjova. The person was a woman who got away with a fine. [[Applause and laughter by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u45	What's your line, Mrs. Tasheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u46	As for today's dispute, I would not allow myself to annoy this audience with popular quotes, but I am forced to tell you because I believe that one day many of you will say, as Pastor Martin Nimöller said: When they came for the attackers, I kept silent because I was not an attacker; when they came for the Voivods, I kept silent because I was not the voivod; when they came for me, there was no one to intercede. [[Radio, applause, and laughter by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Any other lines? I won't. The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Tasheva, Bulgaria is the rule of law. Unlike you, however, I am taught to tell the truth and obey the law. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] In contrast to you, I know well the Constitution, which states that everyone is innocent until proven guilty with a sentence entered into force. In order to call one person convicted, for which I will now bring a case against you, since you lied from this stand, you must show a verdict that has entered into force. It's a valid sentence! There's no such sentence. Moreover: against the person in question, which you quoted, there are several cases of slander. [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u49	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u50	So don't try to lie. I hope very soon another decision will come out to close your mouths for a picture that has been in public for twelve years, and the Burgas Court has condemned me for defamation for showing a 2002 photo of who your leader has been filming for this!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u51	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u52	With the leader of the Ku Klux Klan, with outspoken Islamists, I can quote them by name. That's where he took his picture in Moscow. [[Noise and raging in the hall.]] I was convicted of this thing. Now I hope the Supreme Court of Cassation comes up with an acquittal. Some people are afraid to tell the truth against your leader, however, Bayraktarov is not afraid. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from FDI and single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u53	Any other speeches? Here you are, but you don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Bajraktarov, in my hand I hold a decision of the Burgas Court of Justice Mr. Bayraktarov, please don't fool your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u55	It didn't come into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Personal explanation please, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I will have to explain: this is an administrative case at first instance which is contested. I have all the documentation that this person has never been hospitalized. By the way, the documentation has been issued by a colleague here, from his hospital, I will not announce his name, which clearly shows that this person has not been hit or injured or injured, has not even entered the hospital. I repeat: everyone is innocent until proven guilty. When you show a verdict on the effective verdict, then you can talk about someone being convicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For the procedure Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u59	Dear Mr. Glauchev, my procedure is in the way of leading you. Do not allow the parliamentary tribune to go beyond the subject of the Draft Decision on the establishment of a Commission which we are debating right now. The plenary room is not a place to tell stories, to refer to given and unspoken, to decisions that have entered into force or have not entered into force that are outside the subject of the debate on the specific issue we are discussing, the creation of a Commission. Again, giving or not giving, according to the proposal to set up a Commission, which we will look at in a Chamber, does not mean that the National Assembly acts as a Convention and is pronounced by verdicts. This is the work of the independent judiciary. The law is respected. Very please: strictly interrupt MPs who allow themselves to make such suggestions from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u60	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. I can't help but think of what you said. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Notev, please submit the editorial changes to the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I am paying attention to the changes we are proposing. I'll read the draft.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u62	You can't read them now. You had time to do this thing before.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u63	I'm reading the decision. Mrs. Tsacheva, it's written a manuscript and I thought there'd be mistakes. If you think that's better? The host, however, is another at the moment. ? RESPONSIBILITY? establishing the Temporary Committee on the Demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permissions to arouse criminal prosecutions, No 527-00-5 and No 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015 against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukov, MPs at the Forty-third National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 35, in conjunction with art. 134, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. HAS DECIDED Set up a Temporary Commission with the task of examining whether there is sufficient evidence of committed crimes of a general nature on the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for: 1.1. Authorizing to arouse prosecution against the National Representative Volen Nikolov Siderov with entry 527-00-5 of 12 October 2015; 1.2. Authorizing to provoke prosecution against the People's Representative Desislav Slavov Chukolov with entry 527-00-6 of 12 October 2015. 2. The Commission shall submit a report on its activities containing separate opinions and separate draft decisions on requests made by the Prosecutor General. 3. The Commission shall consist of 17 Members of the Parliament of two Members of Parliament for each Parliamentary Group and one Member of Parliament who shall not be members of a Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u64	So, basically, the decision remains the same?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u65	The third point is the same, t. Two doesn't have the last sentence because he dropped the detention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u66	I put to the vote the editorial changes to the draft decision as presented to us by Mr. Yavor Notev from the parliamentary platform. Please vote! They voted 124 MPs: 26, against 82, abstentioned 16. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u67	Can I just make this clear? Colleagues, I seem to have been misunderstood. My proposal is for the adoption of a decision replicating the text of the importer with the only remark. The proposed points, for which the time limit for their consideration in plenary has not expired. We have no right to prejudge events. We're not people who know what's gonna happen in the second week. Be exact, be correct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u68	The MPs found out the first time. Thank you, Mr. Notev. Revoting procedure. They voted 132 MPs: 28 against 85, abstention 19. The proposals have not been accepted. We are going back to the draft decision presented to you by the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. Are you prepared for composition and proposals to make the single-vote groups? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, the people's representative Tsveta Karayancheva, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, I propose that members of this Commission be Mr. Dimitar Glauchev and Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova, and we propose as President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u70	From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, vice-president of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u71	We propose Chavdar Georgiev and Atanas Zafirov from our parliamentary group for representatives of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u72	From the Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u73	Mr. Chairman, as members of the Temporary Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose Mr. Chetin Kazak and Mr. Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u74	From the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group? Here you are, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u75	From the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc for members of the Temporary Commission on the Demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permission to excite criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly, we offer colleagues Antony Antonyev Trenchev and Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. From the Patriotic Front Parliamentary Group? Mr. Simeonov, Chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It took us an extremely serious effort to find a person who wasn't affected directly by the action of the gang.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u78	What are your suggestions, Mr. Simeonov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u79	That's why we finally dug up the least affected. This is Mr. Christian Mitev and Mr. Emil Dimitrov. [[Applause from the House.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Bulgarian Democratic Center? the People's Representative Rumen Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The parliamentary group of BDZ and People's Union offers colleagues Stefan Kenov and Georgi Kovachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u82	The political party's parliamentary group, Attack? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u83	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" we propose as members of the Commission the National Representative Yavor Notev and the National Representative Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u84	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. The Parliamentary Group "Alternative for Bulgarian Revival"? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u85	The ABC Parliamentary Group proposes the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and Lachezar Nikiforov as Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here you go, Mr. Mihov. Do you have any suggestions? What group? Are you suggesting a non-member of a parliamentary group of MPs? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u87	I propose Mrs. Anna Barakova from the group of MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u88	It doesn't have such a group, but okay. [[Radio, applause in the hall. Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, please be quiet. I propose that we vote on the Anblok proposals so made by the parliamentary tribune. Is there any other opinion on this? I won't. I will introduce you to a fourth point, which has acquired the following form after the proposals made: Chairman: Dimitar Glauchev. Members: Desislava Atanasova, Chavdar Georgiev, Atanas Zafirov, Chetin Kazak, Hamid Hamid, Antony Trenchev, Grozdan Karadzhov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov, Stefan Kenov, Georgi Kovachev, Yavor Notev, Ilian Todorov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Lachezar Nikifov and Ana Barakova. Please vote on the fourth item of the draft decision, namely for President and Commissioners. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The fourth point of the draft decision, namely the composition of the Commission with President and Members, has been unanimously adopted. [[Applause.]] We are now going to vote on the entire draft decision, together with the just adopted item. 4. Please vote. They voted 147 MPs: for 136 against 11, no abstentions. The decision to set up a temporary commission on the demands of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to give permission to arouse criminal prosecutions against Volen Nikolov Siderov and Desislav Slavov Chukolov, MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly, has been adopted. It's a group declaration. [[Noise and lines.]] Come in first, Mr. Mikov, and then Mr. Siderov. Sorry, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Local elections are not over yet, but we already have a lot more questions than answers. And they are not related to the expectation of the official results of the Central Election Commission, nor with an analysis for the presentation of individual parties and candidates, because before and after the last Sunday it was clear that GERB are first and we... a second political force in Bulgaria. And even though we lost those choices, I think no one can take away our right to comment on everything that millions of people have seen. The big question, which everyone is asking today loudly, semi-vocally or subconsciously, is about the future of democracy in Bulgaria. Less and less hope people see about this future because what has been happening in the last five or six years is killing democracy in Bulgaria, alienating people from the political system and serving on a platter the rule of a state and municipalities of non-political entities and representatives of great economic interests, very often standing in the shadow. And all of this on the back and at the expense of the people and with the most diverse means of borrowing billions of loans with a vague purpose, rejecting people from the healthcare system, limiting access to education, increasing the taxes of the poor to keep the tax of the rich in full disregard for the rule of law. But the most obvious is the election we've been running lately. The elections of 25 October 2015 were an unprecedented demonstration of disregard for the voice of the people. Not only by buying votes, corporate vote or using others, apparently already obsolete in the dynamics of society technology. What happened was purely and simply a bold replacement of the people's voices and manipulation of the election result according to the demands of a party. This replacement is carried out in municipal electoral committees, which rewrite the minutes of the sectional committees, according to pre-announced by sociological agencies results from the election for the parties. For the past 25 years, there have been no other elections in which the servers of the Central Election Commission, of the municipal election committees, of the CSO, of the Ministry of Interior are unavailable throughout the day. The paradox, ladies and gentlemen, is that there was a referendum on e-voting. There are no other elections in which there are so many invalid ballots and so many faulty and incomplete sectional protocols.............................................................................................. So much that this can no longer raise suspicion in Bulgarian citizens. There are no other elections where the preferences of candidates are not widely taken into account, even though they are noted in the ballots. There is no worse secured from a technical point of view and an election organization. So bad that people can't help but doubt. There are no other elections where the Central Election Commission will abdicate practically and refuse to announce voter turnout on election day. Until today, there is no record of voter turnout in the country, but there is data on which party how much of the vote wins at national level. These are the absurds of today's democratic elections in our country. The voter turnout is not a derivative of the results of the parties, but the opposite results are calculated on the basis of the voter turnout. Why hasn't the Central Election Commission announced the end of election day until today? So she doesn't have to give data on this turnout or because she's forgotten in the commotion about the night theater of Rakovska? There are many more questions, and each of them is very disturbing. And on this background it is no wonder that the holding of a second tour in 1700 municipalities and settlements is already being called into question as regards the possibility of providing and printing ballots within the time limit for holding a second one here, as defined in the law. This disturbing information has also been sent to the National Assembly and I believe that all parliamentary groups and MPs should take it seriously and take it seriously because the collapse of democracy in Bulgaria would be if the second round of these elections could not be held and provided with enough printed ballots. The way in which the country has been managed in recent years has turned the elections from a process for determining political representation in a democratic way into a conscious and deliberate violation of human rights and freedoms, in buying human dignity, in turning the 50 levs against misery and poverty into a deal with the conscience of Bulgarian citizens. The replacement of the vote, forgeries and manipulations become the norm of behavior. Those were the dirtiest elections since 1989 in our country. Everyone saw and understood that because people are increasingly aware that nothing depends on them. For them the elections are the sad spectacle that happened in the Armeec Hall and the vaudeville celebration of Tsenko Chokov in the village of Galice on the occasion of the beginning of his fifth term, which received good media coverage. Even better than reflecting a number of political initiatives with some meaning for Bulgarian citizens. Politics disappeared from political life and was replaced by media PR and attractive idle speech accompanied by extortion, repression, intimidation and even physical self-agreement with candidates and party activists. Political advertising can't shift politics. Without politics, without values and ideas, there can be no sustainable solutions in the interests of the majority of people, in fact, it can only distribute money from the European Union and spin transactions between players who are circling the power. The lack of such decisions by power, by governance in the name of the people is becoming increasingly tangible to more and more people. It brings more poverty to many and focuses more and more wealth in a few close to power. It gives birth to mistrust and alienation. It takes the legitimacy of authorities to make decisions and shortens their horizons to situational reactions. It obeys the political values of economic interests. This digs a gap between people and politicians, a gap which cannot be filled with PR and formal democratic procedures, and a policy without the participation of people is not democracy, but authoritarianism, subject to large economic interests in Bulgaria. That kind of election doesn't give anyone a legitimization. And all of the newly elected mayors are already marked by the process of undermining the political trust I'm talking about. We can't go down that road anymore. It's high time we came out of the trap of parallel realities we've been standing in for the last few years. It is high time to realize that life is not what is happening in the TV, but what we see and feel every day on the street in both the capital and the cities and small towns. It is high time to realize that we cannot allow politics to disappear from the lives of the Bulgarians, no matter how many people want it in our country. This time is not ours, this is not the path of Bulgaria. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the actions of the government are a systematic effort to replace the democratic way of managing Bulgaria and to switch to authoritarian regime. This contradicts the Constitution, according to which Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic in which fair elections are held. The disappearance of democracy in Bulgaria threatens civil peace, public order, the rights and interests of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, we from BSP left Bulgaria call on the President to convene a National Security Advisory Council to discuss the threats to democracy in Bulgaria, which follow immediately from the processes I spoke about in this statement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Mr. Siderov, come in on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u91	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, no one today doubts that there is no democracy in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is a police, fascist, dictatorial state. If I regret anything, because these days I've been asked if I'm sorry, is that the so-called case is in front of the so-called Theatre Academy, where drugs are sold, darkened...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u92	Mr. Siderov, there was an item on the agenda. You can't say that in a statement. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u93	Yeah, I'm just saying, you blacked out the main topic, and she's the election. I'll talk about the election. The elections are no longer held in Bulgaria, they are prearranged, bought and arranged. This is very well known, and so to speak, my case served the media for a reason to be mobilized as an army to eclipse the important moment. I didn't ask for this. My fight against drug business will continue because the drug business in Bulgaria is protected by the Ministry of Interior, the prosecution and the government to the highest levels. This will be shown and proven, whatever measures they take against me. However, the issue is in the elections. The question is, why is society already at peace with the brutal police, fascist dictatorship? What went through this election was the top of the dictatorship. At present, my colleagues in the square are arrested, detained, slow and yet another rally of "Attack" is being thwarted. He was brutally beaten by police violence a few days ago. A file of documents and evidence that I wanted to take to the Home Secretary. She hid twice and the security guard lied to me about being on a business trip once in Georgia, then in Edirne. I think this is the Ministry of Interior, not the Foreign Ministry, but it turns out that it is more outside Bulgaria than here. Currently, a normal protest rally can not be held in Bulgaria. Currently, the only opposition force in parliament, which consistently and radically fights against neo-colonialism, is crushed, repressed and against us, If this is democracy, then the notions of democracy have changed. No, it's a territory where things in the government and the Attorney General are commanded by the American Embassy. It was no accident that an employee of the US Embassy was with Mrs. Bachvarova on the historic evening in question Sunday, in front of the NATFIZ, and she was telling her on the ear what orders to give. What is already happening in the National Assembly is dictated by the American Embassy. That's clear, right?! We have a protectorate, we have a sub-mandant territory in which there is no more and a gram of ownership that is clear. I think that from now on, no election and political play can change things except a powerful civil protest wave and maybe a Hydush movement. I have said several times that a guerrilla movement can be done, but I think it is more appropriate for the Haidushka because it is more mobile and can act better against the occupation in which Bulgaria is located. We're occupied by American military. We are absolutely inconclusive, insecure and the Prosecutor General's Office, and the Prime Minister is dictated to what to do, and they are handing over what to vote on in a mechanical way to the National Assembly. That's clear! But let's go back to election night and election day that's not over yet. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Do you know what this reminds me of? Nine hundred and seventy-three years, the stadium where tens of thousands were gathered and waiting for which one of them would live and who would die, who would be killed and who would remain alive. The Stadium in Chile and the Arena Armeec. The two images, the same dictatorship, the same masters. In Santyago, in 1973, the US ambassador dictated this has already been proven, and this is also in a statement by CIA chiefs, and this is also in the memories of the ambassador himself how to make the coup. There was a bloody coup against legal President Allende, who was not a communist, as they said. He was a patriot. He was a man who wanted his people to live justly. He had provided a glass of milk for every Chilean child, and there the misery was terrifying. What did they do to Allende? They raised the military that the U.S. Embassy and the CIA funded, instructed and directed. They killed Allende. They locked up tens of thousands of people in a stadium and killed Victor Hara in a sadistic way. In 1973, I remember being a student. Lyubomir Levchev wrote a poem. It was very strong, I remember it until today. That's how it ended: Chili was shot! Guilty! Guilty! I also wrote verses. I say this for information to young, intelligent Protestants who believe that culture begins from them, and I sent my verses to the journal. They accepted them there and invited me to a literary seminar. Among these works was a poem that I said: "Guilty is there, but there is also retribution. " - I was young, naive, I thought. I was the same bully I was now, by the way. Why? Because I had a heart and a soul because I resented every injustice and because I wanted to fight against every injustice. It's the same now. I'm already with white hair, but I think the same way. The same way I have a heart and a soul, the same way I fight against the injustice I see. To have a million drug addicts in Bulgaria is a huge injustice! The police, the prosecutor's office, not to turn on the dealers, but to protect them is a great justice! To die the future of Bulgaria is tragedy, injustice! I keep fighting this, and I'm gonna do it, whether I'm immune or not, arrested or not. I'll do it because I can't live with injustice. I'm the same bully I was in 1973. Then in the magazine I told you about, literaryly, the editor-in-chief Georgi Konstantinov invited me to a literary seminar. There I met the son of the poet Lyubomir Levchev, who I respect to this day - Vladimir Levchev. He led his friend Kalin Yanakiev on hand. They both wrote poems. They were wearing carefully maintained uniforms, with fives on their lapel. I wasn't in uniform because I was the rebel then. I was wearing jeans. At this literary seminar we were young poets who thought the future was poetry, beauty and truth. Then we parted ways. Vladimir Levchev went to the States, lived there, got a scholarship. When he came back, he started cursing nationalism and praising American democracy, that same American democracy that killed Victor Hara, President Allende, Ernesto Guevara and many, many other freedom fighters of his people. This same American democracy, which here now owns its new backyard, Bulgaria, and which decrees and says: "I will distroy ys" said Ambassador Warlick in my face. We've got that shot. I've shown it to you. I've said here from this tribune, but no one was touched. Here comes the time when Warlick's threat... By the way, his translator, the employee of the American Embassy, is now an adviser to Bachvarova, and also an adviser to the Prosecutor General. It's an accident! Warlick's threat is being fulfilled today. Who's doing it? The highest judiciary, the highest executive power. The police are an instrument, of course. I even have to tell you honestly that I'm not mad because when they dragged me around, kicked me and pushed those cops, they got this order. All I cared about was being hit, pushed, and at the same time, a woman with surgery, because she gave birth a month ago, that's all I cared about... I even said, "Slap me all you want." You must have had a grudge going on over the years...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u94	Please return to the election, not to specific cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u95	...but don't push, don't hit a woman. They did it. They did that, too! You decide what country you want to live in. I know I won't get an answer from here. [[FLEEP PLAYING]] . I won't get an answer from you because I know you're already prejudiced here. However, if there are any Bulgarians left who can reason, who can fight for their freedom, do so now. Because Santyago de Chili Stadium and Arena Armeec Stadium, where six thousand people were arrested, people died, human rights were overrun there and giant forgery was made, was also the sign of American democracy that rules here. Do you want more American democracy? Go to more stadiums, shut down more people and kill and fake the election. But when the Hydush movement begins, there will be retribution. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u96	On behalf of the Reformation Block, a declaration. Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! The Reformation bloc parliamentary group expressed its gratitude to all Bulgarian citizens who, with their vote in the referendum and in the municipal elections, supported democracy above all. On October 25th, voters determined who and how will manage them locally and what the composition of the local parliament should be and expressed their will to expand the mechanisms for exercising selective law by introducing and supporting the electronic voting mechanism. The reformist bloc held a competitive campaign with a focus on ideas for solving the problems of settlements and on the quality of its candidates. Our sole assessment is that these elections have strengthened and expanded the support for the bloc and thus confirmed our voters' desire to continue working further and effectively for the implementation of the reforms that have been launched. Some opposition political forces have tried to make the suggestion that the Reformation bloc will suffer a collapse and the ruling majority will have to recreate. This mantra has suffered a total collapse. Moreover, in these elections, we received a strong and political signal from our constituents that the intention to reform sectors such as justice, health, defence, educated administration is unalternative and our behaviour as part of the ruling majority is adequate to the internal and external challenges facing the state. We also congratulate the GERB Party on the strong outcome of these elections and as their coalition partners we assure them that this will further increase our requirements for speeding up and expanding the range of reforms. Although some behind-the-scenes media tried to discredit our candidates, and we know who orchestrated them, the Reformation bloc received a serious presence in the municipal councils, and the opportunity to multiply the inevitability of the reform. The fact is that we and GERB Party are only expanding our support after the parliamentary elections, and ours, we would call it a well-intentioned competition within the government, so that almost all district cities are now on the right. The fact is that in the capital and in some of the major district cities the Reformation bloc is now a second political force and displaces the Bulgarian Socialist Party from this difficult situation for them. In almost half the district cities, we are the third political force. There are almost no small municipalities in which the Reformation bloc does not have municipal councillors. In a town like Kardzhali we have for the first time municipal councilors, and in Shumen we are far before the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the Municipal Council. The movement for rights and freedoms achieved the least of its traditional achievements and strengthened itself as a party of regional importance. Dear colleagues, the rank of our opponent is what defines our place. Victory or loss are secondary. This is a quote from philosopher Nicholas Gomez da Villa. In this sense, after these elections, you and I have a common opponent to fight. The first opponent is the poor organisation of the elections and what happened in the Armeec Hall. Thousands of people engaged in the good conduct of elections were left to suffer, and we should all apologize together. Whether we need a change in the Election Code, whether the Central Election Commission should organise regional reception centres, but this should no longer happen. A similar archaic form of handling written documentation is paperwork that further enhances the need for electronic voting. The issue of electronic voting is already entering the National Assembly and we must change it categorically by changing the legislation. Secondly, the political theatre played by a colleague of ours and the rude violation of the standard of social behaviour of the MP finally forced politicians to begin a review of the institution of immunity of the people's representatives. Whether it's a pre-election shashmalogy or any personality deviations, but our proposal, as well as our pre-election program for dropping our almost absolute immunity and replacing it with a functional one, is imperative. The Member of the National Assembly should have integrity in terms of speech of opinion, political expression of those regarding legislative initiatives and control over the work of the executive and other types of authority, but it cannot fail to comply with the standards of conduct in society and respect the authority of the law and its enforcement. Outside of its professional duties, the people's representative is a citizen like all our fellow citizens. And at the end, the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc thanked all its members and sympathizers for their trust. We will continue to make every effort to justify it. We thank all our candidates and participants in the race for the courage and dedication with which they defended and will defend the reformist cause. We believe that reforms are the future of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Private applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other affidavits? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would also like to thank the members and sympathizers of the GERB Party and all Bulgarian citizens who supported us in this first round. I hope we get support on the second round, because we have a lot of hoops. However, I have heard many interesting declarations from this tribune today. The BSP declaration surprised me sincerely because reading declarations in this case proved to be an attempt to divert attention from weak results, because it appears to be a desperate cry of a going centenarian. Which Election Code did we make these elections? Who was the Central Election Commission and who appointed her? Didn't Mr. Mikov, who was Chairman, and Mrs. Manolova, who was Vice-President of the Forty-Second National Assembly, those people who formed a government with the golden finger of a party leader who today does not want to be taken away from his immunity? For a government that ruled behind walls, behind barricades, for a year and a half police involvement and preservation of this government, for a year and a half discontent of Bulgarian citizens! These elections have shown one thing: people have managed to shake you off and understand that there is a party that can really move Bulgaria's development forward. [[BSP LB.]] You had voice-buying signals. Why didn't you give them to the right place?! There are competent authorities that can rule on this. You didn't have politics. You didn't have a policy led to the benefit of the people. I will give you a simple example: my call in Kardzhali to BSP colleagues to come out and campaign to increase the number of municipal councilors and to reduce the hegemony of the DPS in the Municipal Council, they came out with a declaration, came out with a petition to separate villages from the city something that is completely absurd. After all, they do. They don't make real politics, they're looking for populism. It is now so that there is once again a majority in the Municipal Council in Kardzhali. So, colleagues, how will this referendum and the signatures you have collected go through the majority of the DPS in the Municipal Council? These are your policies. This is your way of working! We don't need any of you politicians to tell us how we did in the elections. We have a clear position, we see it, and for us it is an important assessment of people. I will say to Mr. Siderov: don't compare yourself to these prominent people of the past. It is the people who will give an assessment of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Two names have been mentioned, but apparently there is no desire for personal explanations. Mr. Mestan, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! We thought the declarations that would give an assessment of the local vote would be heard after the second round. Then it will become quite clear who is who in Bulgarian politics. Since colleagues from the other parliamentary groups have been tempted, it seems useful to share on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that the main category of aesthetics is reduced to the word........................................................................... Without measure, there is no aesthetics. It seems to me that this aesthetic category is also applicable in politics, because there must also be a little measure in politics, that is to say an existenz minimum, aesthetics. I do not believe that they are located in the plan of these preliminary political goals such as the "mositaning" of the DPS by Kardzhali, the "scraping" or the "scraping" of the DPS from the political life of the country, because the results of Kardzhali should be a sufficiently clear response to the voters to whom I thank and those from Kardzhali, from all over the country [[Applause from DPS]] that this mission, Ms. Karayancheva, with the opportunity to make a personal explanation, is impossible. It also applies to your partners from the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Block. Today I was tempted to give you a broom and to them a drink. I'm not gonna do it because it wouldn't be, somehow, aesthetic. Ladies and gentlemen! I recall this because the assessment of the result of one political force or another should indeed be a function of the pre-defined objectives. That was your defined goal and you failed in total seven out of seven in Kardzhali. Neither your measure has happened to win Kardzhali, nor the chair of your parliamentary group to make your first breakthrough in Kardzhali. This is not complacency, but an attempt to think more or less from time to time, at least for the word "mere" and for everyone to measure their paint according to His Majesty's will. These local elections have really set new political realities. You have to be blind so you can't see them. The ostrich strategy will not spare you the public assessment of these new political realities. The voter transcends GERB as a ruling political power. We are honorable, unlike you, to acknowledge this, even if we congratulate you. But they did not transcend you on their own in view of your measures for Kardzhali. That's one exception. However, I do not think that the vote of the Bulgarian citizens transcends the ruling coalition as a whole. What has been said about GERB cannot apply either to the Reformation Block or to the Patriotic Front. Back there, the feeling of disparity between the real positions of power that are being consumed and the support of the Bulgarian citizens, this feeling of disparity is deepening. I am not the author of the winged expression that denotes this phenomenon of overeating with power. I really do not wish you to stay with more ministers than the mayors of municipalities you would win. Here, of course, we need to open the clamp and say that it is possible to bring more mayors, but in this situation it will turn out that for 265 Bulgarian municipalities there are 1410 elected mayors. Because the mayor of Simitli, for example, will not just have to be dismembered to satisfy the copyrights of all parties that have stood behind him, but perhaps he will have to simmer, minimum. Unlike you, it honors political forces such as GERB, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, partly BSP, not partially, but in the majority, which we stood with our party lists and party candidates. We have the humble 30 municipalities selected with party lists. This means reaffirming the Movement for Rights and Freedoms as the system liberal party of Bulgaria and this is our identity. By the way, the vote also raised the question of identity. Notice, ladies and gentlemen, parties from the ruling coalition who were seeking identity, including through distinction, through edifying, mentoring tone not only towards the other parties, but also to the main subject of power "GERB," and Prime Minister Borisov, have already given up these claims. They choose to read their score in one. He was good for the entire ruling coalition. Where did your identity go? Where did your claim that you are an alternative in the right of GERB? That's the past. And that is exactly what the second political reality is. After these elections, the Reformation bloc will no longer have arguments to behave racketeering against both the prime minister and the other political forces. Yes, a cruel political reality. I don't think anyone can argue with that. Of course, it is your right to continue pretending to be an ostrich. The DPS conducted a clean political campaign with its ideas. With the thesis that Bulgaria is not only Sofia, we gained huge confidence in voters and small municipalities, we maintained the district center Kardzhali, of course. And whether we are a regional party is another dream that does not cover reality. This is a party that has long expanded its geography. There are elected mayors MPs in areas where no traditional voters live according to your assessment and this is the deserved assessment of the wiser Bulgarian voter for the role of DPS in Bulgarian political life. We will present a more comprehensive assessment of the results of the elections after the second round, from which we expect to realize our second strategic goal - quantitative and qualitative expansion of the participation of the DPS in the local government, which is very good news not only for the DPS, this is the good news for Bulgaria as well, because we will continue to be one of the main political guarantors for the normal development of the Bulgarian political process and Bulgaria as normal, European democracy, without racketeering and without ultranationalist impurities! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u102	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Personal explanation, I presume? Mrs. Karayancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Mestan!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u104	How generous of me to give you the right to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u105	I don't have any measure. We conduct real policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u106	Let's get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u107	People come to us, people from the villages come to us. This year we had 152 candidates for mayors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u108	Well done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u109	From 94 in 2011, the Commission decided to initiate
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u110	And the forest workers are candidates for advisors. [[laughs]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u111	These people came to us and said: "We want to be candidates from GERB, not independent. We want to be candidates from GERB. Why is it that when you are so good at local level, why are there villages that are 4 km away from Kardzhali and have no sewers, no roads? People come and complain. Why do they recognize me as a MP from Kardzhali and tell me all this, no matter what political power they're from? [[Applause from Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Thanks for the applause, it's very much to me that you admit it. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]] These people need to be protected because your mayors don't do anything for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u112	Unlike yours...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u113	Because you brought people by bus again, brought people by bus, people who were registered by the mayors of settlements... [[National Representative Lutvi Mestan laughs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u114	...with address registration and police documents, documents that these people are signed not as holders, but by your mayors, by your mayors. Doesn't matter, the D.A.'s gonna do his job. Unfortunately, however, unfortunately for you, we have growth, we have real results in Kardzhali district.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u115	I'm glad, well done.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u116	Of course, bravo! That's how it works. Slowly and consistently! Because there's no way in your machine, in your experience, which I admit, you have a lot of electoral experience and you know how to make choices, so you work as the Chinese drop, slow and consistent. Thank you. [[Laughter in DPS, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u117	Thank you. Are there any other declarations, honourable Members? I won't. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program point two: THE FIRST VOICE OF LAW FOR PUBLIC PROPOSALS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. First is the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The report was signed by Mr. Kanev. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u118	We're not leading. The legal committee is the lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u119	You're not leading? I'm sorry, then. It's a little illogical, but the Legal Committee... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. At its meeting on 9 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, Mrs. Yolanda Emiryan, Head of Cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, Mrs. Dobrinka Mihailova, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy; from the Public Procurement Agency: Mr. Ivo Katsarov, Secretary General and Mrs. Hristina Deneva, Head of Department; from CEZ Bulgaria The bill was presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The drafting of a public procurement bill is dictated by the need to create an entirely new framework law governing the basic principles and rules and implementing the provisions of five European directives, thus covering all issues relating to the award and appeal of public procurement. The bill provides for the adoption of rules for implementing the law in which technical matters relating to the application of the law are regulated in detail. The bill corresponds to the basic principles of publicity, transparency, equality and proportionality. A number of innovations are envisaged to make the procurement process more transparent, administratively relieved and effective. It introduces value thresholds in line with the directives, with the exception of the building threshold, for which a lower value is introduced, where heavier rules are applied due to incomplete compliance of that market with the European one. The principle of publicity is fully developed through the Register of Public Procurement. The condition for fully electronic management of the entire procurement process will be guaranteed by a centralised electronic platform administered by the Public Procurement Agency. This will be ensured by using a single, centralised public procurement platform, stimulating centralised procurement, development and introduction of new forms such as dynamic purchasing systems and electronic catalogues. Optimisation of how economic and financial capabilities are demonstrated and technical capabilities and qualifications of applicants are envisaged. It is essential to reduce the content of the documents to be presented in the procedures, as a dominant part of them being replaced by a Union-wide declaration. The Bill includes a new set of functions for the Public Procurement Agency, the Court of Auditors and the State Financial Inspection Agency which carry out ex post controls. There will also be changes in the appeal procedures implemented through the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court. With the adoption of the Law, national public procurement legislation will be fully aligned with the European legislation, optimizing the public procurement process in full and reducing the administrative burden. The adoption of the Law will reduce the risk of abuse of public funds when awarding public contracts and will optimize the work of state institutions. People's representatives Petar Slavov, Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, the people presented their principled support to the Bill and raised some questions. Mr. Slavov emphasized on whether it was time for the KPC to be released from its commitment to rule as the first instance and the appeal to be carried out before the administrative courts and as the last instance to rule on the Supreme Administrative Court. In response Mr. Donchev pointed out that according to the analyses, such a change will lead to a number of problems, especially regarding the uniformity of the practice. He stressed that using the capacity gained by the KPC and building on it, the KPC could remain in its first instance. Mr. Hamid expressed doubts that contracting entities would easily navigate under the framework law and raised a question as to whether the time for drawing up detailed rules would be sufficient. Mr. Donchev assured him that the new rules are more relaxing for the contracting entities and pointed out that the rules are already being developed. National Representative Christian Mitev raised questions about the measures to prove reliability under art. 56, the change in the terms of the contracts and the tariff on charges for contesting public procurement. In response, Mr. Katsarov explained that the concept of public procurement at European level is that all that is repairable should be able to be corrected in the procurement process in order to stimulate individuals who for one reason or another have not fulfilled their obligations to do so and to ensure a greater degree of competition. Also given the accumulated practice, at European level, a decision has already been made which are the cases where public procurement contracts will be able to change and these cases are transposed into the Bill. Regarding the fee rate Mr. Donchev pointed out that so far the experience has been varied, but the rates currently represent the reasonable limit. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Public Procurement Bill No 502-01-69.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The next is the report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u122	♪ I can't believe on the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. At its regular meeting held on 16 September, In 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Public Procurement Bill. The meeting was attended by Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, Mariana Slavkova and Georgi Yonchev, State experts in the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy at the Council of Ministers, Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Metodology, Analysis and Control of Public Procurement and Public Procurement in the Public Procurement Agency, representatives of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the CNSB and the Bulgarian Association of Micro Enterprises. The bill was presented by Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." He pointed out that the adoption of a new Public Procurement Act is essential for fulfilling our country's commitments as a member of the European Union. It fully transposes all the requirements of the applicable European directives in the field and presents a balanced national model for the award of low-value contracts, as well as an adequate system of appeal and functional control. The new regulation will contribute to a significant improvement in the internal control environment in the management and spending of public funds. It is expected that the adoption of the new Law will substantially improve and improve the functioning of the national procurement system and provide guarantees for avoiding deficiencies in its implementation practice. In a meaningful way, the Law is framework. It includes the basic principles and rules for the award of public contracts and will develop more detailed technical issues relating to the implementation of the basic rules in its implementing rules. The main principles on which the bill is built are equality and non-discrimination, mutual recognition, proportionality, publicity and transparency. The approach in defining the circle of contracting entities has been changed, and they are divided into two main groups, sectoral and public, with the distinction depending on the order they will be obliged to apply. The order applicable under the Law is defined according to one of the main characteristics of public procurement. Therefore, the correct determination of the estimated value is essential for lawful award. The value thresholds are in line with those set out in the Directives, except for the construction threshold for which a lower value is proposed. Although in the directives, the threshold for declaring works contracts is nearly 10 million. BGN, for Bulgaria it is proposed to be halved, namely 5 million. lv. Part of the entire contract, but not more than 20 per cent thereof, is permitted to be removed from the total estimated value of the procedure where the contracting entity considers it appropriate. In this case, it will be possible to assign it in order that corresponds only to its value and which in most cases will be more relieved. In this case, the order laid down for the entire contract will apply to the residual value. With regard to the requirements for candidates and participants, as an absolute prohibition to participate in the contract there are obligations within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, found to be a breach of the principle of equal competition, presentation of a document of false content or incorrect required document relating to proof of the absence of grounds for exclusion of the procedure or to establish compliance with the selection criteria. For reasons of compulsory exclusion, there are also identified infringements related to environmental, labour or social legislation in the performance of a contract. The Bill reflects the new approach adopted in European legislation to always seek the most economically advantageous offer. The concept of cost-efficiency assessment is developed through a life-cycle cost study. A possible approach is also to combine valuation indicators so as to seek the optimal quality-price ratio by monitoring quality indicators, environmental or social aspects of the order. A significant novelty is that contracting entities will already be allowed to include as an indicator the assessment and professional competence of staff. The matter related to the various techniques and tools for combined and electronic orders has been developed. Among them is the implementation of framework agreements, as one of the most appropriate opportunities to substantially optimize the award process. Framework agreements allow one contracting entity to conclude contracts with more than one contractor. Thus, the number of procedures to be carried out in order to achieve a result is substantially reduced. The bill also lists the framework for the use of the electronic auction as another electronic procurement option and sets out the presentation of tenders through electronic catalogues. It is detailed that the matter relating to the mechanisms for remedying infringements in the course of the procedure is described, including the order for appeal of orders. The order envisaged is essentially not different from the one in force, as far as this matter is concerned, there is no change in the applicable European legislation, and practice shows that the system is functioning steadily. In view of this, proposals have been made in order to speed up proceedings and prevent cases of abuse of the right to appeal. The control powers of the Public Procurement Agency have been extended. Preliminary controls are intended to be extended mainly to the application of the most significant exceptions to the law, to the most frequent cases of treaty modification, and to the technical specifications for the euro-financing contracts examined. Outside of these types of controls, the announced orders will be subject to random control so that for each procedure there is a certain likelihood of being checked. This will achieve a prior control impact to a different extent with regard to all procedures. In their written opinions by the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association support the proposed Draft and make notes on specific texts from it in order to better implement it. The vice-president of CNSB Nikolay Nenkov expressed his opinion that it is good to find a mechanism by which employers with amounts due on salaries will also not be able to participate in public procurement. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Public Procurement Bill, No 502 01 69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. At its meeting held on 17 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Public Procurement Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The main points in the bill are: 1. The main principles and concepts in the field of public procurement are defined. 2. The sites of public procurement and contracting entities are listed. The delegation of powers, joint procurement, mixed and reserved contracts are arranged. 3. The main procurement rules are laid down for the applicable procedures, the trigger values using the type of procedure concerned, the methods for determining the estimated value, etc. A novelty shall be the admission of part of the entire contract, but not more than 20 per cent, to be deducted from the total estimated value of the procedure where the contracting entity considers it appropriate. 4. The methods for realization of the principles of publicity and transparency, which are manifested when the procedures are announced, are set out. The buyer's profile is also regulated, the same being optimized in comparison with the current Public Procurement Act. 5. The questions relating to the preparation of the procedure are dealt with, the number of actions and requirements to be met in order for a lawful procurement procedure to be in place. Newness is the admission to market consultations through which contracting entities can carry out market surveys and the nature of the activities they intend to award by using the services of independent experts. 6. In a new way, the possibilities for dividing contracts into parts within a public procedure are regulated through lots. 7. The requirements for candidates and participants are specified. The prohibitions on participation of persons in public procurement procedures relate to the existence of a sentence for participation in criminal groups, bribery, crimes against tax and financial discipline, crimes against the holding and property, the existence of obligations within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, etc. 8. The criteria for the award of the contract are set out and a new approach has been taken to assess the tenders. The most economically advantageous tender must always be sought. 9. The matter related to the various techniques and tools for combined and electronic orders has been developed. 10. The conditions for the conclusion, amendment, termination and destruction of public contracts are laid down. The conditions for changing the contract are in full compliance with the directives and the approach adopted is more liberal than the one currently in force in the Public Procurement Act. 11. The powers of the authorities implementing public policy, methodology and control in the field of public procurement are regulated. The functions of the Public Procurement Agency are very detailed and it is proposed to extend its control functions. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission expressed their principled support for the Bill. The discussion ended by voting with the following results:......................... 12 Members of Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u125	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Following is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u126	♪ I can't believe on the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 1 October 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August. This Decision shall Mr. Ivo Katsarov, Secretary General of the Public Procurement Agency, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the committee meeting. The draft Public Procurement Act is drawn up in compliance with the basic requirement to achieve full compliance with the applicable European directives. Through the proposed Bill, five relevant European directives are transposed into national law. In this way, it is achieved to cover within a single legal act all issues relating to the award and appeal of public procurement. The Bill also deals with all issues related to the establishment of national public procurement rules. The rules cover both the award of low-value contracts and the powers of the pre- and ex-post control bodies, including the main national authority through which the state policy in the field of the Public Procurement Agency is carried out. Its functions are regulated comprehensively in the Law. With regard to the control authorities, the Court of Auditors and the Agency for State Financial Inspection, as well as the bodies involved in the appeal, the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court, have settled matters concerning their competence in the field of public procurement, in so far as their structure and their general powers are subject to separate regulations. The Commission was given an opinion by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing principled support for the Bill. At the same time, some specific remarks and proposals on separate provisions of the Bill were made in the opinion of the Association. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the bill. In addition, questions were addressed to the representatives of the Public Procurement Agency related to the comments and proposals made in the opinion of the Association of Municipalities, some of which the members of the Commission consider justified and should be taken into account when discussing the Second Voting Bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, 0 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 2 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. And the latest report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u128	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! "COMMODITY" on the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. At a meeting held on 16 September 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Public Procurement Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, who presented the bill, took part in the Commission meeting. I. The proposed Bill aims to transpose Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC as well as Directive 2014/25/EU on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC. It should be noted that their entry into national law expires on 18 April 2016. In essence, the new directives differ substantially from the previous directives and introduce a completely new framework in which the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union is accumulated, as well as the experience gained by the Member States. Therefore, the importer considered it appropriate to draw up a new and separate regulatory act to recreate in full their concept. In addition, the bill aims to fully reflect the existing Directive 89/665/EC and Council Directive 92/13/EEC on review procedures for the award of public contracts and Directive 2009/81/EC on the coordination of procedures for the award of certain works, supplies and services by contracting authorities or contracting entities in the field of defence and security. II. It should be borne in mind that the existence of a harmonised new Public Procurement Act (SIP) forms part of the preconditions to be met in connection with the Partnership Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria, which outlines the aid from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020. The proposed bill includes more than 250 articles, which the importers explain with the need to establish a framework law to prevent future frequent changes and to establish relative stability of public procurement legislation. A similar requirement has also been set by the European Commission in order to avoid doubt that the directives have been left because of the frequent changes in this area. It is envisaged that the POP will be accompanied by implementing rules in which more detailed technical issues will be developed. III. The new directives provide for the introduction of the so-called Single European Public Procurement Document (Art. 67 of the Bill), representing a declaration in a uniform form for the European Union to be completed and submitted by candidates and participants in the procedures. Through it, they will declare compliance with the conditions regarding personal status and selection criteria without being required certification documents at this stage. In this way, it aims to facilitate the involvement of interested parties as well as the unification of the process within the EU. IV. In summary, the proposed Draft aims at transposing all the requirements of the applicable European directives and achieving a balanced national model for the award of low-value contracts, as well as ensuring an adequate system of appeal and functional control. The aim of the importer is the new regulatory framework to contribute to a significant improvement in the internal control environment in the management of public funds and to reducing errors and deficiencies in the implementation practice. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition, and 2 votes abstentioned by the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, this was the last report to the Bill. I'm calling a break until 12:00, thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u130	Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. The reports were presented to your attention. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. People's representative Svetoslav Belemezov, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft new Public Procurement Act submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly aims to transpose into the Bulgarian legislation a European Union Public Procurement Directive, on the one hand. On the other hand, one of the main objectives of the importer is to create a whole new text of the Law, without being marked by the number of amendments that the current act, which for the last 11 years has been amended and supplemented a total of 35 times. It should be noted that the Bill is a systematic repetition of directives so far. It has not been taken into account the accumulated practice of the application of the Law until now... both the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court, on unclear issues and no attempt has been made to resolve the problems encountered by contracting entities and contractors in the implementation of the Law, to overcome the common abuses and examples or indications of corruption. With the new draft Law on Public Procurement, too many issues are left to be signed in the Rules of Implementation of the Law, and in too short a time to specify too many details. One of the main points in the Draft Law relates to the significant increase in the value thresholds above which contracting entities award public contracts according to the basic procedures laid down in the Law, namely art. 20. The importer of the bill has considered it appropriate, for which we support it, to align the thresholds with those laid down in the directives, excluding those for construction where the threshold is 5 million. lv. At 5 million. 186,000. EUR in the European Union directives. As a general conclusion, it could be pointed out that the text proposed by the importer should be refined in order to align the transposition of the European norms with the specifics of the Bulgarian market and to take into account the experience gained so far in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, both the good and, of course, the bad practices. Otherwise, this will be another law that will not be stable in character and whose application will raise more questions than answers. It is practice that recent years prove that the Commission's administrative structure for protection of competition is not able to effectively carry out its regulatory functions in competition and its replaced judicial functions in relation to public procurement. In the event that the powers under the Public Procurement Act of the KPC are transferred entirely to the Supreme Administrative Court, as the first and second instance, both procedural economy and effective justice will be achieved in order to comply with the public principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, in particular, those relating to the free movement of goods, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and mutual recognition. In view of the above recommendations and positive principles raised by the submitted Bill, the parliamentary group of ABB will support the proposed Draft at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall close the deliberations and, on the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I set for vote the date 29th, tomorrow, and the time 9:00. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE PROCEDURE AND THE DEPARTMENT UNDER PASSION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015. Committee on Legal Affairs - Vice-President, People's Representative Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 502-01-67, submitted by the Council of Ministers At its meeting held on 16 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detentions. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva-Rouseva - Deputy Minister, Ms. Nadezhda Yordanova - Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov - State Expert at the Department of Law. The proposed Bill aims to extend the application of probation measures in accordance with European requirements by introducing a system for electronic surveillance as a form of control over the behaviour of certain categories of convicted persons, as well as defendants and defendants with a measure of non-violence - house arrest. Electronic monitoring will control the location, movement and behaviour of certain individuals, implemented by three means, a voice recognition system, radio frequency monitoring and satellite surveillance. Voice recognition is a biometric facial identification technology based on his words and phrases. Radiofrequency surveillance is a confirmation of the whereabouts of a person by registering his presence or absence of the places and hours determined in the sentence. Satellite surveillance is a technology to detect the instantaneous location and movement of a person through a global positioning system. Electronic surveillance will apply to prisoners suffering punishment in an open-ended prison hostel under common regime and to persons subject to probation measures. It is explicitly prohibited to apply it to minors under 16 years of age and persons suffering from incompatible diseases. The period for which electronic surveillance will apply is different for individual categories of persons. To those imprisoned, he will apply himself to the time during which they work or spend the night outside the prison dorm. For persons subject to probation measures, mandatory registration at the current address of a Member State or a Member State, electronic surveillance will be for a period of two to six months, with the possibility to be extended once for up to six months, but not for a total of more than one year. The amendments are intended to set up juvenile and arrest detention facilities for prisons. Correction homes cease to exist as a separate individual structure and are created as divisions to prisons. There is also a possibility for prisons to be exposed to arrests for the accommodation of persons detained under the Code of Criminal Procedure. This will allow for the relocation of existing arrests to settlements where there are prisons with capacity to place arrest facilities in them. The proposed amendments aim to refine the legal framework and optimize administrative structures and expenditures in accordance with the approved budget resources by optimizing the district services. Their number will be reduced from 27 to 6, and to them they will be able to be established as sub-divisions of regional services with territorial scope of activity corresponding to the former regional service. The draft law also provides for a change in the requirements for taking up the post of Head of Prison. In the absence of candidates with higher legal education for prison or prison dormitory heads, it is possible to appoint people with other appropriate higher education who meet the requirement of at least three years of government management experience. In the course of the discussion, the people presented their principled support to the Bill and raised some questions. In response to the questions asked by Mr. Notev as to whether the social and physical conditions under which the guards work will be improved and whether funding is provided for the purchase of electronic surveillance funds, Mrs. Yordanova pointed out that the proposed changes will achieve a more equal burden for the guards through the optimization of the structure. With regard to the financing, it clarified that such a provision was made and that the activity is currently financed by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. In relation to the question raised by Mrs. Atanassova whether the closure of the correctional home in Boychinovtsi is envisaged and if it is foreseen whether it will come to an end to the employees working in it, Mrs. Yordanova replied that the closure of the correctional home as an administration is not foreseen and it will continue to function. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 8 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and 2 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 502-01-67, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to the discussions on this Draft Law and on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure ask for a procedure for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Andrey Yankulov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u136	I put to the vote the motion for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Justice. We vote, fellow Members. [[Noise and lines.]] Abort the vote. The proposal is not accepted. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who would like to take part in the draft discussion? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] I don't understand you, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u137	Run a roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u138	I cannot make such a request, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and excitement.]] There are no speeches. The debate is closed. On the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Procedure announce that, at first reading, the bill will be voted in tomorrow's plenary session after 9:00. Moving on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ANIMAL PROTECTION LAW. Only one report came in from the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food. There is no report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I am listening to the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, which will be presented by the Vice-President of the Commission Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u139	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act, No 502-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 2 September 2015, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act, No 502-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2015. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Desislava Taneva From the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: Dr. Damyan Iliev. Executive Director, and Dr. Petya Petkova Head of Department of the Agency. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The Law establishes a legal basis for the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food, to adopt a National Programme for the Management of the Population of Casual Dogs in the Republic of Bulgaria. The principles, objectives and framework with which the Programme must be aligned are described. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Veterinary Union and the registered organisations for the protection of animals will be able to participate in its preparation. The procedures for implementing the Programme and the financing and reporting mechanism will be regulated in a regulation of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The deadline for adoption of the National Programme and the Regulation is 6 months from the entry into force of the Law. The implementation of the activities will be financed by funds from the state budget, municipal budget, donations from natural and legal persons and international programs and projects. The mayors of municipalities will organize and report annually the implementation of the Programme to the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. A penalty for the failure to comply with this obligation has been laid down. The Minister of Agriculture and Food will report annually on the implementation of the National Programme to the Council of Ministers. The programs adopted by the municipal councils to control the population of stray dogs will be applied until the adoption of the National Program. In its opinion, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the Law in principle by making concrete proposals that will be discussed between first and second readings. In the subsequent discussion the People's Representative Prof. Bachvarova stressed that in order to achieve the effect claimed by the importers, it is sufficient to comply with the current provisions of the Law that there is no financial analysis of how the change of state and municipal budgets will affect the changes and that the planned changes will burden the small municipalities financially. In this regard, the Ministry explained that the Bill was developed in response to the great public interest by both NGOs and on the initiative of a large number of small municipalities which could not fulfil their commitments to the management of the population of stray animals entrusted to them by the Law. The reason is that they do not have the resources needed to develop and implement their own programmes on the ground. In addition, they argued that in the process of preparing the Bill, consensus was reached with all interested parties. The other MPs in general supported the Bill and made a commitment between the first and second votes to make concrete proposals to refine the texts. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 14 votes for the Animal Protection Act, No 502-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2015, proposed to the National Assembly an amendment and supplement to the Animal Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u140	The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The ABB Parliamentary Group will support the Animal Protection Bill because this problem is very serious and we unduly, unduly underestimate it. The main idea is the preparation of a National Programme to control the population of stray dogs, while applying uniform approaches in municipalities to achieve this goal, because the measures applied so far have been insufficiently effective. So far we are constantly talking about animal welfare and many shelters have been created, vaccinated, castrated and will continue the castration further, animal attacks have been reduced, so animal protection is ensured. But if that's the case with people, you can't tell. Especially in the end neighborhoods, stray dogs are in whole packs, each of us sees them. And it's not one, but a few packs that protect their territories, and it's very difficult to pass, especially at night, through these areas. In addition, they are carriers of a number of infectious and mostly parasitic diseases. Bulgaria is in one of the first places on the scary disease of echinococcosis, or dogworm. And people are operated on not once, but repeatedly on this, so other than protecting animals with the proposed National Program, which should be developed soon, people should also be protected. That's the point, that's the idea. We hope that the construction of shelters will also be extended, that the necessary preventive measures will be applied really so that we can protect people from this too. I take this issue especially because the environmentalists and the Commission at the Thracian University of Stara Zagora have serious preliminary remarks before the development of this National Program. It's about something that's embedded in the Therestrial Code. This is the Animal Protection Code of the Organisation of Veterinary Professionals. There at point 7.7 is an euthanasia of animals. The environmentalists are excited about whether or not something like this will be at stake in our National Program. I would like to say, and I have told the environmentalists in advance, the Committee on Ethics and Animal Welfare at the University of Thracian, that this measure is not mandatory, that there are certain plays in the current Law that are important and must be maintained further. Euthanasia can only occur in cases where there is malnourishment and there is a danger to the health and life of humans, as well as animals, and also in incurablely ill animals. That's what you have to bet on in this National Program. Something else. Last night, I saw the law in force. There are plays there that are not followed at all. The methods are provided for to provide all necessary means for the capture of stray dogs, for their accommodation, and the owners are not allowed to throw them out on the street and abandon them. They have to give them to shelters or negotiate with environmentalists something they don't do. This is considered cruel, pursued by the Law, but so far these rules have not been respected. We very much hope that with the development of this National Programme, all this will be at stake and we will provide other than animal protection and welfare, we will protect people's health and lives. We will support this bill. I think he'll play a positive role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u142	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Dr. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the bill for amendment and supplement to the Animal Protection Act, because the problem with stray dogs in Bulgaria continues to harass Bulgarian citizens. Municipal programmes for the management of the population of stray dogs in the country show that different and ineffective approaches are applied, leading to the emergence of various diseases, so-called "zoonoses." Stankov. Six years after the adoption of the Animal Protection Act, good results are observed, but in a very small part of the municipalities. Of all 260 municipalities, no more than 10% have taken complete adequate measures towards this problem. We in our parliamentary group insist on the development of such a National Strategy to address the problem of controlling the population of homeless dogs. The media is still learning about cases of attacked, bitten and stressed people from a pack of dogs. In our opinion, the development of a single National Programme for the Management of the Population of Homeless Dogs aims to align the approaches, principles and objectives to ensure improvement of the health and well-being of Bulgarian citizens. Bulgaria is a champion of dogworm diseases, but it is frightening that 20% of all diagnosed children and adolescents in 20 years. We hope that with the amendment and the supplement of the Animal Protection Act, we will achieve a healthier environment for the lives of Bulgarian citizens, animal health and respect for the principles of humane treatment. In this regard, we in the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will demand strict control and an increase in sanctions for people who do not respect and comply with the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? I won't. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. My fellow Members, I hereby close the debate on the grounds of art. 69 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall set a day and time for the voting of the Draft included in the weekly programme, which shall be discussed in the first vote, which shall be tomorrow at 9.00 after the opening of the plenary day. We move on to the next point provided for in our weekly programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. There has been a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. He will introduce us to Mrs. Irena Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u145	♪ I can't believe To the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 502-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 11 June 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, and Mr. Asen Antov, Executive Director of National Company Strategic Infrastructure Projects, took part in the meeting of the committee. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act proposes that the distances from road nodes, where road service complexes are constructed, be defined in the Regulation on special use of roads, as it is regulated with regard to the distance of advertising facilities from road nodes. The bill provides for the period of validity of the special road authorisation for the construction of construction to be changed to 2 years. The proposal is justified by the fact that it is possible that the construction of the already issued authorisation for special use of the road by API may not begin within the period currently in force in the law, as all documents required by the Law have not been issued. Due to the fact that at present there is a regulation in force to determine the sections and gauges of the bicycle lanes in and outside the urbanised territories and there is no need to issue an autonomous regulation, the Act proposes a provision requiring the issuance of a separate regulation for bicycle lanes by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to be abolished by the Act in force. The matter was set out in Ordinance No 1 of 2000 on road design and Regulation No 2 of 2004 on the planning and design of communication systems of urbanised territories issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. In the Bill is proposed by the subject of activity of the National Company "Strategic Infrastructure Projects" to drop commitments on the management, maintenance and repair of the newly built projects by the company. Those activities are proposed to be carried out by APIs in view of the experience of APIs in maintaining and operating Republican roads, motorways, roads I, II and III classes. It should be borne in mind that the Agency operates, maintains and rehabilitates the road network of more than 19 500 km long, with contracts for maintaining existing motorway sections intended to be included for maintenance and planned for construction, and the newly built sections (lots) of the highway concerned. Separately, existing regulations regulating activities related to the operation and maintenance of roads in the Republic of Bulgaria have been developed and are currently updated in due course by the API. In addition, the bill also provides for an opportunity by decision of the Council of Ministers of the National Company This will allow full use of the company's built administrative capacity, which, as a concept, function and structure, is project oriented. During the discussion the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes. Attention was paid to the need to refine the provisions regulating the activities of preventing the dangers of falling trees on the lanes for movement and interaction between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the municipalities and the Forest Executive Agency for their removal. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and the abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Roads Act, No 502-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. I'm opening the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 69 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly set a day and time for voting on the item included in the weekly programme: A bill discussed in the first vote. The vote will be tomorrow, Thursday, at 9.00 after the opening of the plenary day. Moving on to the next point in our weekly work programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON COOPERATION IN THE AREA OF CULTURE, ARGUMENT, SCIENCE AND YOUTH. A report came in from the Foreign Policy Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth, No 502-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 September 2015. At a regular meeting held on 7 October 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth, signed on 12 February 2015 in Sofia. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov. The Agreement regulates the ways of cooperation between the Contracting Parties in the fields of culture, science and education, research, scholarship programmes, language, literature and history of each Contracting Party through exchange of lecturers, cooperation between higher schools, through the establishment of a European university space within the meaning of the Bologna Process, as well as through general education and vocational training. Cultural cooperation in various fields, support of the activities of the Bulgarian Cultural Institute "Dom Wittgenstein" in Vienna and Austrian libraries in Bulgaria for joint projects. The Agreement provides for the establishment of a Joint Committee by representatives of the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties whose meetings will be held every four years consecutively in Bulgaria and Austria. The Joint Committee shall take decisions on annual work programmes for the organizational and financial regulation of the application of the Agreement acting in accordance with the internal rules laid down. The Agreement shall be concluded for a period of five years and shall continue automatically for a new five-year period if, six months before its expiry, either Contracting Party does not notify the other Contracting Party in writing by diplomatic means that it does not wish to extend it. The Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the month in which the Contracting Parties have notified each other in writing by diplomatic means that the internal state procedures for its entry into force have been fulfilled. The Agreement between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the field of culture, science and education, signed on 9 February 1973 in Sofia, and in force on 7 July 1974, shall cease to apply as from the entry into force of this Agreement. The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on Cooperation in Culture, Education, Science and Youth, No 502-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 September 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u148	Mr. Georgiev, thank you for introducing us to the Foreign Policy Committee report. The next report received on the basis of the President's allocation and order is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth, No 502-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 September 2015. At its regular meeting held on 7 October 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs," who informed the MPs that the Agreement on Culture, Education, Science and Youth signed by the Foreign Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Austria during the visit of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs on 12 February in Sofia. The importers stressed that regarding youth and sport no specific texts are provided for in the Agreement, as it constitutes a very common framework of cooperation, but it is possible to do so at the level of work programmes already. In case there are concrete initiatives and proposals by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, they can be presented in order to become involved in the specific activity to be implemented. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 11 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u150	Mr. Cholakov, thank you. There are no other reports. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There is no stated wish to speak by the Members of the National Assembly. We're closing the debate. On the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, I declare that the vote on this item will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 9.00 after the opening of the plenary session. We're moving on to t. 7 of the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1 JANUARY 30 JUNE 2014 AND REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1 JULY 31 DECEMBER 2014 An opinion has been delivered by the Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Karastoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the activity of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2014 - 30 June 2014, No 430 "2" submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 30 October 2014 and the Report on the activity of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2014 - 31 December No 530-00-5, submitted by the Electronic Media Council on 1 April 2015. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 21 May 2015, the Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2014 - 30 June 2014, No 430-00-2, submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 30 October 2014 and the Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2014 - 31 December 2014, No 530/05, submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 1 April 2015. The meeting was attended by the Council for Electronic Media: Georgi Lozanov, Chairman, Ivo Atanasov and Anna Hadzhieva, members of the Council, Dilyana Kirkovska, Senior Expert and Virginia Savova, Senior Inspector. The reports on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media were presented by Mr. Georgi Lozanov. They are imported as required by art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television. The media regulator in its reports presents information about the radio and television environment in Bulgaria; it oversees the activities of media service providers; licensing and registration of radio and television programmes; legal activities and case-law; international, financial and administrative activity. The report of the first half states that an analysis of the ownership of electronic media to a natural person was also carried out at the initiative of the CEM. The Council shall have and maintain a register of ownership in the electronic media available on its website. In relation to the electoral code adopted by the National Assembly in 2014 and a change in the Law on Radio and Television, the Council shall monitor election campaigns on set criteria and present interim monitoring reports on the election process, which shall be sent to the Central Election Commission and made public. The Council for Electronic Media notes a tendency for commercial media service providers to strive to comply with professional ethical standards in their activities. The aim of the CEM is to protect copyright and related rights in the media service providers' programmes. One of the Council's priorities is to protect children from adverse media content. After the vote of the Members of the National Assembly of Culture and Media with 12 votes for the National Assembly, with no objection and 1 abstention, they propose to the National Assembly to accept: - The activity report of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2014 - 30 June 2014, No 430-00-2, submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 30 October 2014; - The activity report of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July 2014 - 31 December 2014, No 530-05, submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 1 April 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There is a word from the National Representative Julian Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will express my position as the MP and as IMRO's organisational secretary. I personally will not support the CEM's report for several reasons. One of the reasons we believe is that this body is completely unnecessary. A body that does nothing, a body that only receives and charges and serves foreign interests of foreign countries and certain political parties is unnecessary. I would therefore like to say from this platform that the National Assembly should consider whether this body should continue to exist. What they did with the opening of a centre in Kardzhali with a regional programme in Turkish is simply unacceptable. In a free Bulgaria, a body that makes a single decision that does not comply with the opinion of the people who do not conduct public discussion even for revealing such centres should not exist. His chairman, whom we at IMRO want to resign immediately, as well as the entire body, allowed himself to lie on the air about how he was threatened, how he was pressured and so on. I would like to note the fact that I, as MP at the meeting of the Council for Electronic Media, asked for the floor as a citizen in terms of the point they discussed about radio in Kardzhali and about the centre that will broadcast in Turkish. The President of this body, in violation of any rules, announced a vote and voted before giving me the floor for opinion as a citizen, as a Member of the National Assembly, to which I am entitled, because all meetings of the CEM are open and are entitled people, organisations, MPs to attend and to express an opinion. Therefore, I call on you: do not take the CEM report and take action for this body, a parasitic one serving the interests of the DPS, the Turkish state and a number of other backstage players, to take an initiative and be removed as a state body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u154	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Anyone for a line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate and announcing on the grounds of art. 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly vote on this item tomorrow, Thursday, 9.00 after the opening of the plenary session of the National Assembly. The next item provided for in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly is: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPHIC AGENCY, INCLUDING AND FINANCIAL REPORT FOR MONTHS JANUARY A report came in from the Committee on Culture and Media. He will introduce us to her chairman Mrs. Karastoyanova. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on Activity Report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statementq for the period 01 January 2014 31 January 2014, No 531-00-2, submitted by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 15 May 2015. A report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency including a financial statement for the period 01.01.2014 was reviewed at a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 4 June 2015. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: Maxim Minchev General Director, Evelina Andreeva Secretary General and Dancho Antonov Financial Director. The Agency's activity report was presented by Mr. Maxim Minchev. In accordance with the requirements of art. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, its Director-General, presents reports of its activities to the National Assembly, including financial statements. The report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for the whole of 2014 noted that there have been no drastic changes in the activities of the Agency and the year has been defined as successful. Information is provided: about the location of the Media Market Agency; its role as the main source of information about the world and the world for Bulgaria; exchange contracts and foreign partners; information activities of the Agency; its financial situation; international contacts; the activities of the National Press Club and the network of regional press clubs of BTA. The specialized issue for electoral initiatives "Vot 2014", the issue "Bulgarian Municipality" and the newest product of the agency "Studio BTA" create new opportunities to reflect the events in the country. In 2014 the service "BTA live" started, which provides a complete record of the press conferences, and the video can be viewed directly from the Agency's website. Last year was held the 10th World Meeting of Bulgarian Media in Sofia, Bosilegrad and Tsaribrod. The report noted that BTA provides for the formation of an independent unit to work actively in the field of social networks. Similar to many of the agencies around the world and BTA brings out as the most serious problems: the illegal use of information by the National Agency and the correct citation of the source of information for customers with a signed partnership contract. After a discussion the National Representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to accept the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the period 01.01.2014. "31.12.2014, No 531/02," submitted by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 15.05.2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-28.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I declare that on the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly will vote on this item tomorrow, Thursday, 29 October 2015 at 9.00. With this, the items envisaged for consideration on the agenda of the National Assembly are exhausted. I am announcing a next plenary session tomorrow, Thursday, at 9:00 p.m. and I ask you to bear in mind that there are upcoming votes on the last six points that we have just considered. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
