ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please register! There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one communication: on 4 February 2015 was received and distributed to the MPs A general draft of the draft laws amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act adopted on the first vote on 29 January 2015. The draft was prepared by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission. On the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made with regard to the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. According to the adopted Work Programme this week, we begin today with: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR HEARING AND SELECTION OF THE SUPERVISOR OF THE BULGARIAN People's BANK, THE MANAGGER OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BANKOV. Mr. Anastasov, what do you want? [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Thursday will exceptionally be Wednesday and the DPS Parliamentary Group continues to write the lively chronicle of the political repression dedicated to those Bulgarian citizens who have become victims of the xenophobic political thought of the Reformation bloc and the Patriotic Front. [[Loud noise and lines from RB and PF.]] Much of the victims, which I will read today, do not claim to be activists, members or sympathizers of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. On the contrary, by one sign or another, they are recognized as such and are targeted by the ruling quadruple coalition for political execution. For us it continues to be a mild strange reaction of GERB the oldest and most experienced party of the quadruple coalition, which already knows the true meaning of the words "stable government" and "professional administration." If you, colleagues from GERB, do not demonstrate in practice the new quality of political dialogue and the new national democratism, this would be equivalent to repeating all errors of the first management and aligning GERB with xenophobic coalition partners. You don't have to talk about it anymore. This humble hope of hearing our words correctly, however, even more hope I do have that you will realise the messages of your political leader. I say this not to express some narrow party claim to the DPS, but because the historic moment needs precisely such political maturity. The statistics of those politically sentenced to dismissal for the past week have increased by more, notice, 27 people. To compare, last week was 12. With them the living chronicle of political repression already contains 334 names and they are: Mussamedin Hhabil Fired Higher Education, three years internship in the field. In his place Veska Nikolova was appointed by GERB. Fired Sibel Kenan higher education, six months internship in the district. There's no one in her place. Fired Juneet Günel Ahmed higher education Agroengineer, one year internship in the district. There's no one in his place. Jurkie Shaban was fired from law school with five months internship in the district. [[(Loud noise and lines. Communicating!]] In her place Julian Yordanov was appointed by GERB. Fired Pervin Shukri Master of Public Administration, with 19 years and six months internship in the district. In his place was appointed Nevena Kernikova by GERB. Reyhan Shakirov was fired from higher education, a machine engineer with 15 years of experience in the field. There's no one in his place. Birol Ismetov was fired from higher education, machine engineer, six months internship in the field. There's no one in his place. Sevgin Shukri has been fired from higher education. In his place Violeta Todorova was appointed by GERB. Dr. Ibrahim Yahov was fired from higher education with 34 years of experience in the field. In his place was appointed Ilian Dramanliev by GERB. Mehmed Niyazi has been fired from higher education, an agricultural engineer in the field for one year. There's no one in his place. Levent Bamov was fired from his studies in veterinary medicine with 26 years of experience in the field. In his place was appointed Nikolai Inkov by GERB. Cemile Mahmoudova was fired from high school, a chemist engineer with 12 years of experience in the field. There's no one in her place. Metin Karasuleyman is fired from higher education with 27 years of experience in the district. There's no one in his place. Deniz Hamid is fired from his job as Master of Finance, Bachelor, 8 years internship in the district. There's no one in his place. He's fired. Mladen Maslev His place occupies Virgil Baykalov from GERB. He's fired. Adalind Kehaiov Master of the Ministry with 20 years of internship in the district. In his place was appointed Zvezdelin Bajrakov by GERB. She's fired. Aynur Ibryamova Master's degree in the field with 26 years of internship. In her place Botyo Arabadzhiev was appointed by GERB. Chief Inspector Evgeni Vassilev has been fired from his post with 26 years internship in the district. In his place was appointed Nikolai Dimov by GERB. Elisaveta Peltekova-Usheva has been fired with six years of experience in the field. There's no one in her place. He's fired. Anatoly Elev "Master of Economics" with 10 years of experience in the field. In his place Todor Vassilev was appointed by GERB. Beiha NaiI Duran has been fired. She has been a Master in Public Administration for 13 years in the field. In her place Adrian Petrov was appointed by GERB. Boryana Tsocheva has been fired from her Master in Economics with 8 years internship in the district. In her place Ivanka Georgieva was appointed by GERB. Evgenia Aivazova has been fired from her Master in Economics with 18 years of experience in the field. Her place occupies Yavor Gadjankov from GERB. Elmira Gurova was fired from higher education, Master, with 5 years internship in the district. There's no one in her place. He's fired. Asen Ivanov Master of Forestry, with 12 years internship in the district. His place is occupied by Margarita Valkova by GERB. Ruslan Kolarov has been fired from higher education with a year and a half internship in the district. In his place Galin Kurtzov was appointed by GERB. Daniela Bakardjieva has been fired from higher education - Finance, a year and a half internship in the district and over 20 years of internship in senior positions. Nikolay Nikolov of GERB was appointed in her place. Emel Rasimova was fired from higher education, Master of Social Management, with 20 years of experience in the field. Her place is occupied by Svetlin Bonchev from GERB. Habibe Ramadanova was fired from higher education, Master of Business Administration, 6 years internship in the district. There's no one in her place. Fatme Derelli was fired. Higher education, Master of Accounting and Finance with 12 years internship in the field. Yordanka Georgieva from ABB was appointed in her place. Hava Alieva has been fired. Higher education, Master of Finance with 8 years internship in the field. There's no one in her place. Ilian Chacker was fired. Higher education, Master of Communications Engineer, with 6 years and 2 months of experience in the field. There's no one in her place. Suleyman Leshkov was fired. Higher education, economist, with 20 years of internship in the field. In his place was appointed Tsenka Ruseva by GERB. Yusain Beitulov has been fired. Higher education, plant-growing engineer with 33 years internship in the field. In his place Sevda Ermenkova of the Reformation Block was appointed. Nikolai Yankulov has been fired. Higher education with 25 years of experience in the field. In his place he was appointed eng. Grigor Gogov from GERB. He's fired. Petar Petrov, Master of Forestry with 24 years of experience in the field. In his place Rosen Rosenov was appointed by GERB. Gyuljan Mehmedova has been fired. Higher education, master's degree in accounting with 12 years of internship in the field. There's no one in her place. Valya Evtimova has been fired. Higher education, master's degree, construction engineer with 15 years internship in the field. Galia Georgieva from the Reformation Block was appointed in her place. Zehra Bayraktar has been fired, engineer, agronomist, with 30 years of service in the field, notice! In her place was appointed Yordanka Stefanova by GERB. Emil Nedyalkov was fired, economist, master, with 18 years of service in the district. There's no one in his place. Musten Eminov has been fired. Higher education, educator and master of school management activities with 13 years of experience in the field. In his place Krasimir Kalchev was appointed by GERB. Andrej Iliev has been fired. Varna University of Culture, Nikolay Petrov of ABB was appointed in his place. Shirin Hasanbasheva was fired with a higher education economy, 11 years and 8 months of internship in the field, not appointed in her place. Ramadan Birkov was fired. Higher education - finance, with 6 months internship in the field, has not been appointed in his place. Eredzep Halilibraimov, secondary-special education technician was fired. Notice, it's a forest guard! In his place Isa Ziya was appointed by GERB. [[Reply from GERB: "The time is over! "]] Kadir Hassan has been fired...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u3	Mr. Anastasov, you will continue next Wednesday. Remember what number you've reached. You're just running out of ten minutes. Thank you. [[National Representative Stanislav Anastasov spoke with microphones off.]] Thank you. Moving on... Mr. Anastasov, please run out of time, your word is taken away! Don't make me sanction you for disobeying regulations! Thank you. [[National Representative Stanislav Anastasov spoke with microphones off.]] Here you are, Mr. Mihov, on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Anastasov, I also have a list and it's a little longer than yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u5	In ten minutes, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u6	In fact, I would prefer not to read it for one reason, that it is not right, purely moral, people who are not present in the Chamber, to read their names without their consent. Secondly, it is not right for people who have not given their consent and cannot defend themselves to use them for your political purposes. [[DPS lines.]] I didn't replicate you from place to place, so stay calm. [[DPS lines.]] I have an eye on my area at 7. That's where political cadres turned it into business. You've learned to manage people's fears for so many years. You use their fears that if they don't vote for the DPS, they won't have a job, that if they don't go to vote, they don't have their families and relatives to have jobs for a long time. You use their fears and you rule them, and you learn that. I remember at the beginning of the 40th National Assembly here in the lobby I met your district leader in the Gabrovo Election Region. I said, "What are you doing?" - "I'm waiting for an audience at your home." - "And what are you bringing him?" - "List to approve the footage." Don't look at me like that! Every ten I'll leave one of yours! I'll leave one every ten! Does this remind you of anything, Mr. Anastasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u7	You're contradicting yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u8	I think you've read history. I'll tell you again: I'll leave one for every ten! And I'll give you an example. Have you ever heard of the Bulgarian Nature Park? The long-standing Director of the Nature Park, who created it 15 years ago, has no political coloration, with all its good and bad sides as such, was fired and a few days ago on January 29th, the court decided that the dismissal was wrong. The firing was wrong. The highest institution, the court, restores it to work, and you appointed your municipal coordinator in Sevlievo, Mr. Ali Aliyev, who, notice, has a timber mining company! You appoint him head of the Nature Park, who must respect and contribute to environmental protection and limit logging! You appointed him director! This followed numerous protests a month or two protests. And what was said to learn about edification, to learn! And the court's highest authority said that the dismissal was wrong, Mr. Anastasov. Wrong! This Ali Aliyev, your government, six years ago, fired him as head of forest in Sevlievo for corruption. You fired him! And now you've restored him to work in such a responsible position. Another example, another park supplied by Central Balkan, which operates the Central Balkan Mountains from Gabrovo to Troyan, to Karlovo, biodiversity, forests and so on. You're firing a man who's never, ever been involved in party activity. Fifteen years he worked in the park, from the very creation of a specialist, a young boy. I don't know him myself. I don't know him. And who are you putting - the municipal coordinator of the DPS with education "psychology." I think psychology is a very good education for a natural park manager. There are many other cases of construction and so on. In the Fund you are firing the Director, who has been for 12 years since the foundation was created. He's neither party nor party member. He's been there 12 years. He has set out several governments until the good, seblimating moment, when your district coordinator says: "Every ten I will leave one. " - Unfortunately, it wasn't that one, it was one of the ten. You fire him the most unceremoniously, put Mrs. Salie Bozz in his place, who knows a lot about agriculture and has proven it in a year and a half, he's done so much crazy stuff at the Fund that I don't know if two years will be enough to fix it. Unlike you, who every ten you leave one, and I'll tell you this every time you come out here to read, every time, Mrs. Sallie Boz is not the director at the moment, but she's the chief specialist at the Fund. He's not out of a job. Unlike you! The head of the DAI in Gabrovo is not without a job, he is a chief specialist. That's when you have a commitment and a responsibility to people and you don't make political dismissals. While you mocked and determined the fates of the people. You left whole families out of work. I have a complaint and cases in a village of Sevliev, which is 95% Muslim. An entire family, who are Muslims, has orders to be fired.. mother, father, daughter-in-law, daughter-in-law and all, from funds, from work, including pressure in private companies, only because they did not vote in the elections for DPS and attended our meeting.. a meeting that I attended in this village. The village is the Ryahovtsi, check it out! Take a good look at it! Only you don't know where he is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u9	I've been there twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u10	When you've been there, talk to people about the fear they live in, Mr. Anastasov! Talk to them! An entire family of ten people have been ordered to fire them, even by private companies, for disobeying the order to vote for the DPS. Therefore, my call is: do not use what you read to do your political campaigning! If you think this is how you're gonna unite the people around you and protect their interests... that might have been years ago, but at the moment people have seen. They know you're using them. You use their fears and manage them in the best way possible. You've come to the point that your district leader is blackmailing companies by threatening them with checks from the Labour Inspectorate, the IRS and so on, because there, you see, they were their people! They had party assignments that they could crush, who they could push and where they could get!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u11	This is Zlatanov's notebook.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u12	You've come this far to blackmail people into giving you five kilos of nuts! You got here because, you see, the DPS was having a party and there should be a treat there. It doesn't look like you! Just like you, I don't think it looks like you. I will no longer participate in this political empty talk, because at the moment the country has a lot of problems with people in distress, with floods, with everything that is happening as a result of the elements. Yesterday we lost three hours of parliamentary time to deal with your bill, an ideology that you are pursuing again some political goals. Today again, we are losing 20 minutes to deal with your visions of how we should develop. In that time, we could have done a lot more useful work. If you don't know what it is, we can give you some advice on what to do. In any case, not the one you're trying to dictate! Your time has passed! And don't control people's fears anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u13	You're not the one who's gonna say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u14	Don't control them! People saw and found out what it was about. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u15	For a personal explanation there is the word Stanislav Anastasov. Then there'll be a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I will not speak in the style of news agency EJK
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u17	You guys have no shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u18	...and I'm committed to pre-talking in order to show you within the week a document with your signature on how to be appointed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u19	Where?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u20	In Gabrovo, where, if your words are true, please synchronize with Ms. Karayancheva, DPS in Gabrovo should have at least 10,000 votes, and not so much as the appointment of the non-existent Director of RIEW of the non-existent RIEW Gabrovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u21	Mr. Anastasov, a procedure for personal explanation of what you were affected by the words of the previous Mr. Mihov! Don't continue with the announcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u22	I think it's explained, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u23	I expect you to explain yourself to Mr. Mihov, not to bring third parties into the debate with personal explanations, we will be done by 11:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u24	Please, when you go out here, talk to data. I'm going to bring up a very concrete fact. And most importantly: when someone comes out again to practice on the biographies of the fired, I will ask him to declare what his motivation is to protect xenophobes in this Parliament and to be their legal attorney!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u25	Learn what xenophobia is first, my boy! Get a grip on yourself, will you? You're getting a little engraving! Xenophobes... What is xenophobia?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u26	Colleagues, please no lines on either side.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u27	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues! At the risk of abusing the procedure, I would like to call my colleagues from the DPS for at least a little morality and humanity! When you read some names, when you're playing with human destinies, check the facts! Margarita Valkova, the one you read as appointed by GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u28	Mrs. Daritkova! Mrs. Daritkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u29	...her body is still being hunted at Tsankov Stone Dam along with her husband! What do you think you're doing to her family, reading her name?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u30	Mrs. Daritkova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u31	Very please, colleagues! Let's not use for party use... [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u32	Mrs. Daritkova, let's not use different procedures...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u33	...let's not use for party use people's fates and human stories to view them as just an electorate! [[DPS lines.]] This will not help us in any way to look better in people's eyes! Nor will it bring political dividends! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u34	Mr. Kanev wants the floor for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u35	What was the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u36	I didn't understand either. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u37	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I really didn't want to take the floor at all, because we have a very important job today, both in terms of BNB and in terms of education and repeating the same names... [[Noise and lines between MPs from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u38	Colleagues, I'm sorry, Mr. Kanev, if you don't calm down, I'm just gonna interrupt the meeting! It's not normal to work like this! Go on, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u39	Since this week's list has even repeated two names with last week's list, but let's put that aside... We will not endure forever, and for this reason I take the floor, we will not tolerate eternally the Reformation bloc being called the xenophobic formation. Not only because it is obviously not true, but because it is an insult to hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians, who, if we have to characterize them with a sustainable thing in our conduct from the time of the very Revival process in the dark winter of 1989 to 1990, to this day, were consistent opponents of any form of xenophobic politics in Bulgaria. From 1985 to 1989 the opposition to the then regime Bulgarians opposed the Renaissance process. In the winter of 1989 at 1990, when the police from the State Security encouraged the lowest passions in the Bulgarian society, the people with opposition sentiments, Bulgarians and Turks, Christians and Muslims, sympathizers of the then-created SDS and DPS, showed reason, showed leadership in front of their communities and did not allow those encouraged by the coppers lower passions to take over. The country with the greatest risk of civil conflict in 1990 in Europe was not called Yugoslavia. In all international reports it was called Bulgaria. However, then the people who were opposed to communism and dictatorship in Bulgaria, regardless of what their ethnicity is and what their faith is, showed reason and 25 years later no one remembers that Bulgaria was at the greatest risk of conflict. Kids today can't believe it, but those who remember the winter of 1990, when some lumpens, sedated by the BCP, protesting the return of names, were very close to the mind that this thing might happen. Only then Bulgarians came out, all the opposition in Bulgaria then came out to defend the right of people to return their names. These people you call xenophobes! Leave me alone and who we sit here, and these hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians call xenophobes! And if then the Bulgarian Turks also showed reason, and if the then DPS also showed reason, and if today the Bulgarian Turks and Muslims also show reason, I cannot say this about today's DPS. Today's DPS has no sense. Today's DPS sets the low passions in Bulgarian society, and them, believe me, there are always them and our responsibility is not to set them up. Colleagues, I understand it's hard to be in opposition. Fourteen years these people have been in opposition, and very soon they will probably still be. Those are the rules of democracy! Ten of these fourteen years the DPS has been in power, and you know it. [[Noise, excitement and applause by GERB and RB.]] There was a circle that remained the ones who signed up for the DPS, which reminds me the question: "Where is Biserov? " But I don't know if I should turn to you, or to the prosecution, which you have been so passionately defending lately? [[Applause from GERB and RB]] [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Colleagues, fourteen years of repression against the sedentaries in Bulgaria did not allow a single sedentary to say a bad word about the Bulgarian Turks, not once. Fired, unemployed, completely discouraged that they could get from the state other than slaps, these people never allowed themselves to be xenophobia, never allowed themselves to say a bad word about those who fired them. They have always spoken against the DPS, they will always speak against the DPS never, never, ever, against the Bulgarian Turks. And today, on the funny lists you read, there are no names from the Reformation Block that he fired. Obviously, out of pure malice, we are firing to appoint officers of GERB. The Reformation bloc and our people in fourteen years have learned that power and politics are not dismissals and appointments, power and politics is solutions and responsibility. Today we are responsible for not firing any Bulgarian Turk for his name. Give me those lists, Mr. Anastasov. Give them to me! [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]] I'm going with them to the ministries to ask if these people were fired fairly. Because the responsibility of those who govern is not to appoint the people and fire the opposition, as you have done for ten years, but to protect the rights of the people and not to allow party dismissals and appointments to have this shameful and vile conversation here. Do not count on the Reformation Block to show xenophobic politics, nor at least fire ethnically. Or if I have to rephrase a colleague who isn't here, but who bragged yesterday that he wasn't in Security, it's nice that there are some among you, colleagues, our love of freedom is much stronger than your love of power. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u40	Can we move on to the point in our program for today? Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mr. Vladislav Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u41	♪ I can't believe on Draft Decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the hearing and election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bank's Supervisory At a meeting held on 29 January 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bank supervision. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the proposal received by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for the election of Dimitar Ivanov Kostov as a deputy of the Bulgarian National Bank, head of the management of the Bank supervision. A CV and a declaration under Article are attached to the proposal. 11, para. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 16 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules for the hearing and election of the sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of Management The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts rules of procedure for hearing and election of the deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bank's supervision. I. Hearing of the candidate. 1. The proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which shall be broadcast in real time on the website via the National Assembly's website. 3. The candidate shall be presented by the proposer of the proposal. The manager of the Bulgarian National Bank shall be presented within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Personal presentation of the candidate and of his concept of management activities.Bankov 5. Presentation in summary of the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, if any, shall be represented up to two minutes each. 6. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 7. Questions from Members of the National Assembly within two minutes. 8. The applicant's response to the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly will be up to 10 minutes. 9. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 10. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 11. The applicant shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidate. II. Election of a candidate for the deputy governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Board of Directors of the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the proposed candidate is present at the meeting. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. The applicant shall be submitted by the supplier within two minutes. 4. On the proposal of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank for the Deputy Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Board of Directors, the Bank's supervision is held in the order of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. Where the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Only one correction in the first Roman one, i.e. 11:.... is prepared within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure report, lapsus, said the candidate............................................................................................. for clarityness. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Rules of Procedure? Is there, uh, coworkers? There aren't any. I put to the vote a draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for hearing and election of a BNB sub-governeur, Head of Management. They voted 130 MPs: 126, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT (importers: Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, 21 November 2014) AND THE LAW FOR THE PEOPLE'S WORLD (importers: Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, 15 December 2014) I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u43	Madam President, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u44	Mr. Mestan's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u45	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're going to look at one of the most important bills. In this sense, discussions could not be held in the absence of the education minister. It's really impossible, and if it's really coming, there's no point in making a procedure to call you to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u46	I will, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u47	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u48	Thank you. I recall that on the plenary day of 30 January 2015 the Report of the Committee on Education and Science on a bill was presented. No 454-01-51. Have both reports been submitted?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u49	Just the one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u50	You have the floor for the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! Before that, allow me to make an offer for admission to the Hall of Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Vanya Kastreva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u52	Voting mode, please. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted unanimously. Invite Mrs. Castreva. We're listening, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u53	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on the People's Education Bill, No 454-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 December 2014. At its regular meeting held on 17 December, In 2014, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Law on People's Education, No 454-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Minister of Education and Science, Vanya Kastreva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Konstantin Penchev, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Ognian Stoichkov, Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Children's Affairs, Youth and Sports at the Forty-first National Assembly, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations from the National Education system, representatives of NGOs, principals of schools and kindergartens, teachers and other pedagogical specialists. In the Committee on Education and Science, opinions have been received on the National Education Act from the National Institute (NGO), which does not support the project, and the National Association of Resource Teachers who express the opinion that there are constructive proposals in it regarding the training of children and students with special educational needs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov. It was underlined that the basic principle of the Bill is providing equal access to quality education for all children in Bulgaria. The aim is to preserve the tradition in the system of folk education not only as a name but as a single educational system with a common center to plan, implement and control the quality of Bulgarian education. It was emphasized that the education of children cannot be put at risk by new experiments with vague consequences. The bill preserves the system of protected schools in order to ensure the provision of quality education in them. It is proposed that secondary education up to the 13th grade should be mandatory, with the high school stage being one According to importers, one of the mechanisms for overcoming increasing illiteracy is organizing training through working in professional high schools, it will create better links with business. The project envisions the introduction of a textbook on a subject as a necessary condition for the effective implementation of national educational programmes and a way to avoid corruption practices at the expense of the quality of the training. The importers propose keeping the career position acquired by the teachers for the entire internship rather than losing it on leaving each job. The Bill proposes the cancellation of the collection of fees by the Ministry of Education and Science for the alignment of diplomas from European institutions. The provision of public funding to private schools and private kindergartens is not envisaged. In the subsequent discussion the MPs agreed on the opinion that they did not have enough time to get acquainted with the Bill in detail. The general impression is that in this project many of the texts are identical to the texts in the Pre-school and School Education Bill introduced by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, but at the same time presents a radically different philosophy. A disagreement was expressed by the parental organizations with the replacement of the term "Inclusive Education" with the term "Inclusive Education" and it was proposed to organise a discussion on which to discuss and clarify the issues of the resource centers. With regard to the financing of children who are trained in private schools and private kindergartens, importers have expressed the view that they are not generally against the state funding of private schools and private kindergartens, but only in the part where it is applied now. The argument in this direction is that more money for private education in the European Union is given by countries with a higher rate of gross domestic product for education than Bulgaria. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held: the National Assembly should not adopt the National Education Act, No 454-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. We continue with the report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go. You have two reports, respectively, on both bills. The Rules of Procedure may, in summary, provide the Commission's views.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At its regular meeting held on 14 January 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law on Pre-school and School Education, No 454-01-51, submitted by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014. The meeting was attended by Vanya Kastreva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Tsveta Antonova, Department of State Policy of the Child at the State Agency for Child Protection, Tsvetan Antov, Advisor to the Minister of Youth and Sports, Svetla Georgieva, State Expert at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of the importers, the Preschool and School Education Bill was presented by the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, who pointed out that he clearly and categorically defined education as a national priority and reformated its goals by placing the child and the student at the centre of the education system. The project under discussion shall provide: - the creation of a new educational structure, for the sake of clarity and order in the education system. Two primary and average degrees are envisaged, each of which has two stages: primary (I.. IV grade) and secondary (V.. VII grade), and middle grade with two stages: first high school stage (III.. X class) and second high school stage (XI and XII grade). There is a new kind of school available (from I to X class). The status of schools of national importance and the status of an innovative school is introduced: - the development of educational standards with a focus on achieving objectives and results; - optimize the evaluation system at school. An internal quality management system for education is in place. The need for external quality assessment implies the establishment of a National Inspectorate of Education in Bulgaria; - identify the role of parents as participants in the educational process with regulated rights and obligations; - alignment of the regulations in full compliance with the requirement of increased qualification of directors, teachers and other pedagogical specialists. The members of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports were acquainted with the written opinions received on the Law on Pre-school and School Education by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Culture, State Agency for Child Protection, National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and employers', trade union and non-governmental organizations. For the most part, they support the Bill in principle by pointing out some remarks and making proposals to refine, amend or supplement some of the texts of the Bill. In the course of the discussion regarding the overall philosophy and principles of the Bill: - Deputy Minister of Education and Science Vanya Kastreva said that the Ministry of Education and Science supports the spirit and principles set out in the draft, because it meets the necessary reforms in the educational sphere. It clearly defines education as a national priority, ensures the order of the whole system, the child is placed in the focus of the educational system; - the proposed new norm for funding the education of students in private kindergartens and schools Prof. Borisov expressed concerns about the existence of a risk of violation of equality between state and municipal schools, on the one hand, and private schools, on the other; - the representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports expressed their support to the draft in question in its part relevant to sports schools, proposing between the first and second votes to be refined and amended some texts relating to the subject of study "Physical education and sport'; In conclusion, the importers noted that the proposals made during the discussion will be discussed and the necessary changes will be tabled between the first and second votes. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with results: 10 votes, 3 votes and abstentions, 3 votes, the Commission questions of children, youth and sport proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Pre-school and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by the National Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Now follows the Commission's opinion on the draft Law submitted by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the People's Education Bill, No 454-01-64, submitted by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. At its regular meeting on 14 January 2015, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined the National Education Bill, No 454-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. Opinions have been received in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports on the People's Education Bill from: - Ministry of Science and Education, according to which the Law on People's Education does not fully reflect the needs of the modern development of the educational system in the Republic of Bulgaria, contains some principled situations that cannot be shared, while there is no framework for fundamental relations; - Ministry of Youth and Sports does not support; - The State Agency for Child Protection does not support; - ECPAT Bulgaria "Society" "Supreme children" is not expressing an opinion for support, but merely making comments and suggestions on the various texts. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov. It was underlined that the basic principle of the Bill is providing equal access to quality education for all children in Bulgaria. The aim is to preserve the tradition in the system of folk education, not only as a name, but also as a single educational system that is centralized and enables the state to conduct a unified national education policy in all areas of the country, regardless of the material well-being of people and their religious views. The main generator of secondary education policy is the Ministry of Education to plan, implement and control the quality of Bulgarian education. The importer stressed that the education of children cannot be put at risk by new experiments with vague consequences, which would have happened with the removal of the Inspectorate outside the education system outside the Ministry of Education. The structure of education laid down in the Law was presented as an extremely important issue. It is proposed that secondary education up to the 13th grade should be mandatory, with the high school stage being one Regarding the assessment: it is proposed that post-first grade students be evaluated with valuations. In the subsequent discussion on the Law on People's Education took the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Vanya Kastreva, prof. President of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. State Agency for Child Protection disagreed on centralisation, the proposal for a textbook and a unified methodology. The Members of the National Assembly have given differing opinions. The general impression is that in this project many of the texts are identical to the texts in the Pre-school and School Education Bill introduced by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. With regard to the financing of children who are trained in private schools and private kindergartens, importers have expressed the view that they are not generally against the state funding of private schools and private kindergartens, but only in the part where it is applied now. The arguments in this direction are that more money for private education in the European Union is given by countries with a higher rate of gross domestic product for education than Bulgaria. After the discussion was concluded and the results were taken:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov, for presenting in summary of the reports. I think we've made our point. Following is a Report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I see he's summarized for the two bills. Mrs. Kotseva will introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u59	Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for pre-school and school education, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, and a draft for public education, No 454-01-64, submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 22 January 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on Pre-school and School Education submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs and the National Education Bill submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, of the National Association of Resource Teachers and of other non-governmental organizations and movements, whose activity is related to the relevant legislations took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the Pre-school and School Education Bill was presented by the MP Ms. Cornelia Marinova. The bill envisions introducing a new educational structure in the system of school education a primary educational degree with two stages: primary and secondary, and middle degree with two stages: first high school stage and second high school stage. Dividing the average level into two stages will improve the relationship between secondary and higher education, on the one hand, as well as the relationship between secondary education and the labour market, on the other. In the second high school stage will also take place dual training in vocational schools. The status of schools of national importance and the status of an innovative school is introduced. It is also proposed that the establishment of a new kind of unified school that will allow students from small settlements or those whose families are in a difficult financial condition to have the opportunity to finish their first high school stage in their birthplace. These schools can also provide professional training, so students will acquire qualification by part of a profession, and for professions with first degree of professional qualification and professional qualification. The protection of protected schools is also envisaged. Forms of training are optimized with the proposed new form of independent form of training. The bill provides for a public council to be set up at each school and kindergarten. The public council will be the body for the development of the educational institution and for civil control of its governance. The establishment of the National Education Inspectorate is proposed. A compulsory qualification and attestation of teachers and other pedagogical specialists is introduced as a means of improving the quality of education. The bill regulates the model of funding, the basis of which is the decentralisation of funding to school level. The funding from the state budget of children and students who are trained in private kindergartens and private schools is regulated, which, according to importers, will lead to an extension of access to education and increase competition between educational institutions. The second draft law was presented by the MP Mr. Valeri Zablyanov. The main objective of the proposed Bill is to ensure equal level of mass education, equal access to education for all children and quality education in all schools. The bill provides for the introduction of a new educational structure, creating conditions for higher educational results and curricula, offering secondary education up to 12th grade to be mandatory, with two options after 10th grade of professional education or compulsory training for higher school. It is also intended to provide conditions and perspectives for talented students to define specialized schools for training specialists in the fields of mathematics, sports, arts and culture. The introduction of a textbook on one subject is also proposed as a necessary condition for the effective implementation of national educational programmes. The bill provides that public-funded education will be directed to state and municipal schools, regulating a new formula for the allocation of funds on delegated budgets. According to importers, obtaining public resources from private educational institutions will create additional conditions for inequality on the way of the material base, the payment of teaching work, residence and regional features. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Education and Science and from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, expressing the principled support of the Pre-school and School Education Bill. The opinion of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works draws attention to certain provisions of the People's Education Bill, which make it unacceptable, and the opinion of the Minister of Culture indicates texts of the same Law that need precision. Opinions have also been made by a number of organisations, which address certain provisions in both bills, which are controversial or need to be refined. The opinion of the National Association of Resource Teachers expressed in the Commission meeting drew attention to the proposed restructuring of the resource centres, expressing the concern that there is no necessary capacity for such structures to exist in the territory of each municipality. In the subsequent discussion the MPs united around the need for an entirely new law to regulate the system of school education. It was expressed that in the two bills many of the texts are identical but at the same time represent a different philosophy. Conflicting opinions were expressed regarding the state funding of private schools and private kindergartens. Attention was paid to the need to refine the functions of public councils, to fund resource centres and the need to regulate the funding of spiritual schools. A disagreement with some of the terminology used in the Preschool and School Education Bill was also expressed. Some of the MPs expressed their support for the proposals made by the National Association of Municipalities, which should be taken into account by the leading Commission in their majority. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 8 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go. You have two separate reports on the two bills. To remind you that according to art. 77, para. 3 you can present them in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance under the People's Education Act, No 454-01-64, submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. At a meeting held on 22 January 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the People's Education Bill submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Vanya Kastreva. The main objective of the Bill is to guarantee quality education in all schools and a level of literacy of graduates each stage of education. The bill provides: - public-funded education is in line with the interests of its users. The maintenance regulations of a student shall be differentiated according to the type and specifics of the training; - inspecting the educational system is linked to a single evaluation system; - a new educational structure; - the introduction of a textbook as a necessary condition for effective implementation of national educational programmes; - the introduction of dual training for learning and working in a real production environment; - Regulation of a new formula for allocating funds to delegated budgets. The bill does not provide for state funding to private schools and private kindergartens. After the presentation of the Law was held a discussion where the MPs united around the opinion that in this project many of the texts are identical to the texts in the Pre-school and School Education Bill submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, but with different philosophy. Reserves were expressed by the Ministry of Education and Science concerning the philosophy of the Law. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Budget and Finance Committee proposed that the National Assembly not adopt the People's Education Bill, No 454-01-64, submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe under Law on pre-school and school education, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014. At a meeting held on 22 January 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Pre-school and School Education Bill submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Vanya Kastreva. The bill was presented by the MPs Snezana Dukova and Galya Zaharieva, who pointed out that the main motive for the implementation of the bill is to update the regulations in the field of secondary education. The Bill sets out a single policy based on school autonomy, written in various aspects of it through the curricula and educational content through the four degrees of school education. The Bill perfects the system of delegated budgets introduced in 2008 with new control mechanisms. An additional allocation of funds according to the quality of education provided by the educational institution shall also be introduced. The establishment of public councils with representatives of the local authorities concerned is envisaged, which would lead to more serious civil control over the spending of public funds. Children's personal support centers are being introduced, which will be shared and additional, and which will allow for further work with troubled children and their support. Financing is envisaged for private kindergartens and private schools, with the subsidy from the state budget being granted from 2018. Deputy Minister Kastreva expressed the support of the Ministry of Education and Science on the Bill and the opinion that education is placed as a national priority and that the child should be at the center of the educational system with the development of its interests, needs and overall personal development. The willingness of the team of the Ministry of Education and Science with expert proposals to improve the norms described in the Law was also stated so that the Law can be flexible and modern and give the width for the development of the sphere at least decades ahead. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held, which discussed in detail the issues concerning: the resource centres and their financing; improving the cost standards for stimulating the quality, responsibility of public councils for spending the funds, what are the estimates and how it would affect the State Budget Act for this year and others. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on pre-school and school education, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Ms. Karastoyanova, please express your opinion to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Pre-school and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November In 2014, and National Education Act No 454-01-64, submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. The Committee on Culture and Media at a regular meeting held on 22 January 2015 discussed the Pre-school and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014, and the People's Education Bill, No 454-01-64, submitted by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Education and Science Vanya Kastreva Deputy Minister and Ralitsa Kirilova Secretary from the Ministry of Culture Rumen Djurov State Expert at the Department of Modern Art and Art Education and representatives of NGOs. The pre-school and school education bill was presented by the MP Krasimira Anastasova. The bill proposes the introduction of a new educational structure into the system of school education. The main educational degree with two stages: primary and secondary, and middle degree with two stages: first high school and second high school stage. A school status of national importance is introduced and the development of innovative schools is possible. The establishment of public councils to each kindergarten and every school is envisaged. Schools of culture from the first to the twelfth grade or from the eighth to the twelfth grade including; schools of arts from the first to the twelfth, or from the fifth to the twelfth grade, or from the eighth to the twelfth grade including. Schools of Arts and Schools of Culture are opened, transformed, changed and closed under the terms and conditions of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. They are taken as specialized schools in the field of culture and arts. The Law on People's Education was presented by the MP Mariana Boyadzhieva. The bill focuses on the preservation of the tradition and system of folk education as a single educational system with a common center to plan, implement and control the quality of Bulgarian education. It provides for secondary education up to the twelfth grade to be compulsory, with two options after the tenth grade, namely: compulsory vocational education or compulsory training for a university (university). The bill also provides for conditions and perspectives for talented students to define specialized schools for training specialists in the fields of culture, arts, mathematics and sport. Ms. Vanya Kastreva expressed support for the Pre-school and School Education Bill, which to a greater extent meets the public interests and needs for changing the regulations, gives greater flexibility and is a more modern, modern public contract for development of education. Statements and the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science for failure to support the Law on People's Education. The opinion of the Ministry of Culture expresses support for the Pre-school and School Education Bill and proposes the correction of technical error, omission, as well as an addition within the meaning of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture concerning schools of arts and culture which are state cultural institutes. During the discussion, the people's representative Ercan Ebatin expressed the opinion that the mother tongue should not have a form of optional study, but a compulsory form of study. People's representative Rosen Petrov raised a question about the logic of financing private schools with state funds. This question was clarified by the MPs Vyara Cerovska and Cornelia Marinova. Following the debates held, the Committee on Culture and Media with 10 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Pre-School and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014; with 1 vote...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. This concludes the views of the committees. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Obviously, there is not so much interest in this House on this important subject, but in our society there is. In the end, it's about the future of our nation, the future of our children. In this regard, I propose a direct broadcast of the debates on this item on the agenda on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u66	Thank you for the procedure, Mr. Popov. Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal the debate on the two submitted laws to be passed on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 34 against 9, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. [[(BSP LB:) Bravo! Way to go!]] Thank you for the vote, honourable Members. We continue with the point of view of the importer regarding the Law on pre-school and school education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am convinced that every one of us in this room wants our children to have good opportunities for development, to be young people with knowledge, with skills, with self-esteem, to have a good life as successful citizens. I believe that the bill that we are starting today is the Preschool and School Education Bill has exactly these objectives. So, without overdoing it, it's up to us today how our children live tomorrow. I say this not to give a special mission to the Preschool and School Education Bill, but to stress once again, once again the important task that the legislator has to carry out in the field of education. The formula of economic development "Education, education, education" is based on adequate and modern legislation, legislation that enables teachers to apply modern models of education, legislation that is the basis for developing current curricula to ensure the absorption of key 21st century skills, legislation that ensures the increase of interest and motivation for learning among students, legislation that makes the school an important factor for success. We can no longer be satisfied with the findings in the World Bank's reports, the European Commission's international literacy studies, that Bulgarians do not understand what they read, that they cannot apply their knowledge in practice, that Bulgaria is in one of the top places by number of young people who do not have primary education. As if there is already some masochistic pleasure in repeating this diagnosis for years without offering and applying adequate treatment. Both I and the GERB group believe and believe that the Preschool and School Education Bill is part of this lifesaving treatment of the Bulgarian education system. Our call to you is no longer to postpone this reform, because not only are we late, we have already started running in the opposite direction. And I believe that the forty-third National Assembly can adopt this Bill, which over 600 teachers, directors, experts of municipalities, NGOs, parents, experts of the Ministry of Education, social partners worked on for more than three years. Huge work by a huge number of people who have devoted their time to having this Preschool and School Education Bill today in plenary, by the way, for the third time in a row. Very little time reached for him to be accepted before the end of the Forty-first National Assembly, but then there were protests asking for him to be accepted. This was one of the first bills that we submitted with our colleagues from GERB at the beginning of the 40th National Assembly, but then the government of Mr Oresharski and the ruling majority refused to engage in education, and we lost two years. Colleagues, these are really lost years of two seniors. In the meantime, recommendations have also been made on the adoption of this Bill by the Council of the European Union. The bill has the support of organizations such as UNICEF, organizations such as the National Network for Children, which brings together 127 NGOs, the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, the Union of Employers in the National Education System. I will not list all the supporting opinions, you can see them on the Commission's website. And at the moment, the Committee on Education and Science has various proposals and recommendations that we will adopt between first and second readings with colleagues. For example, the desire of the mathematical and language schools to maintain their 5th grade reception, the proposal of the resource centers. Their desire to remain as public units was held the other day, but with other functions, preserving the opportunities for municipalities and schools to employ resource teachers on the ground. We will also define the protected kindergartens, other than protected and middle schools, which are scheduled in the bill introduced by us. Since the reports of the committees were quite detailed and comprehensive, I will not dwell in detail on all the new moments in the Bill, but I will emphasise a few of them. The main objective of the Bill is each child and each student depending on their needs to obtain maximum opportunities for the development of their potential, opportunity for successful personal and professional realization. For the first time in law, education is defined as a national priority. For the first time in a law on education, such serious attention is paid to the individual development of children and students, including children with special educational needs, who will receive care from specialists on the ground and will thus stop being isolated, anonymous and invisible. A qualitatively new process is introduced in education, which means that from now on not the child will comply with the system, but the education system will adjust to the diverse needs of children. This, honourable Members, will ensure equality of chances for all children. In addition, the status of a school of national importance as well as an innovative school is introduced. The role of the Bulgarian language in education is very clearly defined with a separate standard for the Bulgarian language. An overall independent expert assessment of the quality of the education provided by the Bulgarian kindergarten and the Bulgarian school, which will be carried out by the National Education Inspectorate at the Council of Ministers on objective criteria, is also introduced. My fellow Members, I will just say that almost every country already has such an inspectorate. The Dutch Inspectorate has 214 years of history, and we are just beginning to talk about such an external assessment. Requirements for the implementation of an internal quality management system in kindergartens and schools are also introduced. The proposed Bill introduces for the first time the possibility of validating competences acquired by persons over 16 years in the system of informal training and formal learning. The possibility of validating competences of children who have chosen an independent form of training under 16 years of age shall also be introduced. I know that there are colleagues and experts among you who are concerned about this possibility. Colleagues, we can't turn a blind eye to the truth. At present, nearly 500 children in Bulgaria are training in their families. How does the state ensure that these children's rights are respected? How does the state ensure that their skills and knowledge will be evaluated and recognised? The solution we propose is an opportunity with the relevant control mechanisms so that really no abuse is allowed, which many of you are worried about. A key difference with the current Law is the foundation and foundation of the educational content, of the curriculum, of the key competences, of the skills that children should then apply in practice, and not only of encyclopaedic knowledge. This is done in successful education systems and this ensures better literacy and better realization of the labour market. Something that provokes a lot of comments is a measure laid down in the National Program for School Education and Pre-school Education and Training adopted by the National Assembly with an extremely large consensus. I am referring to the principle of money following the student and the child. This principle, laid down in the National Programme, we have also adopted as part of the reform that we are proposing to you. What we have recorded is that this will happen as part of funding for private schools and private kindergartens, and will happen from 2018. The effectiveness of the educational system is unattainable without qualified and motivated teachers. Therefore, we offer career development of teachers, linking their pay to career development and the qualifications that must be linked to students' progress. There is also an attestation for school directors and pedagogical specialists, respectively, with the possibility of removal in failing to deal with the obligations. With regard to parents and parents' participation in the educational process, we propose the establishment of public councils, where there will be a representative of the municipality. This, fellow Members, will not be the board which is registered under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act, but a public council in which parents will be elected by election. In this way, we guarantee civil control over the management of schools. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we all argue on a daily basis that education should not be politicised. With the adoption of this Bill today, we will give a clear sign that education is indeed a priority for us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. On behalf of the importers Mr. Zablyanov, will you present the second bill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u69	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Today is an important day for Bulgarian parliamentaryism because two bills are proposed, which have a direct bearing on Bulgaria's development for a long period ahead. The discontent in the Bulgarian society from the state, the results, perhaps the quality, the conditions under which Bulgarian children are trained and graduated from school is justified. The Bulgarian school is part of the whole socio-economic, financial, state reform that has been carried out over the past decade. It can't stay away. The need for new rules, expressed by law on the secondary education system, is available. There are also relevant public expectations. During these years, many new forms of education have emerged. Private education institutions have been established in the field of secondary education with trained staff, methodologies and established interactions with state educational institutions, such as the Ministry, regional departments of education, the Inspectorate and so on. All of this is a fact and we proceed to this problem with the importers of the other draft of diametrically opposing positions from positions that express different philosophical understandings of what secondary education is in Bulgaria and what its role is in building and strengthening, for imposing and forming a national self-consciousness in the Bulgarian community. Because such a bill cannot be reduced to mechanisms, technologies, the creation of bizarre forms of education, the verification of competences as part of colleagues, and so on and so forth. The bill that we must adopt must provide every child with quality education, regardless of the material status of the parents, of the family; enable him to develop his individual qualities; become a prerequisite for eliminating regional differences. Here I would like to open a clamp and say that a very meaningful discussion of the two laws took place in the Committee on Regional Development. I would like to say that a number of committees have been formally treated, which is reprehensible. State institutions have been formally taken. Ministers dealing with the development of children, youth and sport sent formal reports. They sent arguments and proposals only for the project proposed by colleagues from GERB and had not even read the other draft law. Bulgarian children do not deserve such formal treatment. I'd like to make a comparison, fellow Members. When the question of whether pension insurance could be moved from private funds to the state insurance institution was being discussed here, the hall was crackling at the seams as if we were adopting a Constitution. Take a look at what the National Assembly's House is today, the most binding law. [[Reply from the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u70	Thanks for the fix, I'll take it. More to the motives. We insist that the money from the Republican budget goes to public and municipal schools. The money for education is small and each of the governments of GERB so far used their political power to reduce them even further. Education money cannot go to private schools and educational institutions not because of anything else, but because children who are studied in them have great material opportunities, as well as their families. The expressed concern that Bulgarian children are placed under equal conditions is false. She's a fake! It serves to justify an unfair thesis. I would like to tell you that if the Bulgarian National Assembly opens the way through this bill, opens the door for such funding, liberalizes to infinity the production of textbooks, liberalizes to infinity the creation of pseudoinstitutions in the field of secondary education, the consequences will be devastating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u71	What about private hospitals?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u72	That is why today the BSP bill I regret that BSP should submit a bill, this bill should have been tabled by the Minister of Education. This is where the Prime Minister was supposed to be. This can't be a party initiative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u73	Where were you for a year and a half that you didn't bring it in?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u74	I would like to say that we insist on maintaining the concept of popular education in the name of the law. For us it is historical and not just a formal name of the law, but expresses the essence of the educational work in Bulgaria. Secondly, in the system of people's education now, today, under this law and in the future, we want to enter all extracurricular forms of education, as are currently existing resource centers in all district cities of Bulgaria. We want the Law on People's Education and, as we have written it, to include all forms of training, training and education of children. The current practice has shown that the transfer of burdens on the Bulgarian municipalities in these financially difficult years leads only to neglect of activities in the spiritual and educational sphere, not for other reasons, but because every municipal council, every mayor, seeks to satisfy the material needs first and foremost, and this is quite natural. The care for the upbringing of children, as well as the resource centers, must therefore be subject to the Republican budget. They are built, they function, there are trained specialists there. I would like to say a few words on the discussion of the bill. One visibility was created around a civil support project submitted by colleagues from GERB. BSP made a real discussion with different specialists, not by party sign gathered people, where the opinion is unique. I will report it to the Chamber so that you can check it in the electoral areas from which you have been selected to tell you what they think about the practical closure of the resource centres, which is provided for in GERB's bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u75	I'm lying! I'm lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u76	To tell you what they think about public funding for private schools and how many private schools we have in the backward regions of Bulgaria and for whose account this funding will be. Let them tell you! In the Bill proposed by BSP, we propose an idea.. it may not be adopted in the form of a bill today, because all measures to pass one other bill have been taken. But I would like to say the following, we are faced with the need for secondary education to become mandatory, because we are currently in a paradoxical situation. There's no dropout from universities, and there's no dropout from high school. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] How can you decide that? We demand that the Inspectorate, this institution of quality control of education, remain in the Ministry of Education, not be taken out and subject directly to the Prime Minister as a parallel structure that seeks only partisanization of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u77	Mr. Zablyanov, you will have an opportunity in the debates. If you wish, you can now proceed as the first participant in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u78	I'm done with one sentence. The introduction of a textbook for us is a condition for the implementation of state educational requirements and effective fight against corruption in the system. We therefore believe that this subject must also be regulated legally, as we propose in the law on the system of folk education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u79	Debates are open. Until now, request to participate in them, according to the order of the request Mr. Mestan, Mrs. Snezana Dukova, ABB. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I'm recording you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm glad you're here. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are looking at perhaps the most important Law on the basis of both social policy and economic policy, and on the basis of our identity as Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, the approach of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on this extreme political act will be out-partisan. I will start with the Bill of colleagues from GERB, because in the Commission it turned out that this is the Bill that collects support and I will start with a few undoubtedly positive moments. The first, honourable Members, Mr Minister, undoubtedly positive fact is that you offer to the attention of the National Assembly this important Law in the first months of the cabinet's mandate Borisov-2. That's how it's done. Thus you break up with a very unpleasant practice to offer to the attention of the people's representation the last few months of the government was the same within the Forty People's Assembly, so it was within the framework of the Forty First National Assembly. This is a request from you that you also take responsibility for the application of the act. Secondly, the draft proposes a new structure of school education, which makes an attempt to overcome a problem related to the absence of a 7th grade reception, after eighth grade reception, the additional preparatory year in specialized language schools and so on, although problems arise here from this new structure, which, I am convinced, are not yet defined by your team, I will refer to them a little further in connection with the financing of municipal schools. The third positive point, the idea of compulsory tenth grade, which aims to comply with the constitutional provision that education is mandatory until the age of 16 students. Of course, here I would call you for more effort between first and second reading this tenth grade, the idea of the mandatory tenth grade to be sealed so that it would also be a real motive for graduation. I've suggested a little bit more revolutionary ideas that I'm not going to focus on right now, because I'm going to offer them to your attention at second reading. From now on, however, my concerns begin. Firstly, the DPS Parliamentary Group has a real drama with the name of the Bill. Mr. Minister, why do we give up the most Bulgarian word? [[(Voices from BSP left Bulgaria.) (Voices from Bravo.) (Voices from BSP left Bulgaria.)]] I have no idea why we're giving up that word.! That's the As a tradition Bulgaria has accepted that knowledge is synonymous with light. This is in the best traditions of the great work and of the most holy brothers Cyril and Methodius. Let's have time between first and second readings, let's think about it. This is a privilege for Bulgaria, part of the national identity of the Bulgarian people! Other nations do not have such a word to name their educational system. We must not lightly give up these persistent symbols of national identity! Next, it is really a problem not constitutional, the Constitution gives this right that the bill has been tabled by individual MPs. I do not dispute anyone's right, but such constitutional laws are good to be imported by you, by the executive. There is a far more sustained system of prior coordination of aspects, of the interaction of all institutions involved in the educational process, with enlightenment. This is not only the responsibility of the Minister of Education. It is also the responsibility of the municipalities, it is also the responsibility of other ministries. Much more precise is the coordination of the concept apparatus with which the law operates, because this project has a sense of chaos. I will not dwell on examples because we are committed to making our contribution with proposals between first and second readings and on this aspect of the proposed project. More importantly, although there is a whole section of the Law in the Draft, the Second Section of the School Education System, I am still losing the global objectives of the Law. The main goal should be functionally literate, integrated citizens of European Bulgaria. This should be the goal of the educational process at all levels, because without literacy there is no integrated society, without an integrated society there is no developed society. And here I will place a targeted emphasis on the main ulcer that is the problem with early school dropout, the problem of Roma education. Because there is no doubt that over 80% of dropouts are representatives of the Roma minority in Bulgaria. Dear Minister, with all the responsibility that we carry within us, we address you with an analysis of this problem. The problem with the early dropout of Roma from school education is not a problem of school education itself. It is rooted in something else, which for the first time we will very clearly define from the platform of parliament the roots are in the system of preschool education and preparation of children. We have research in certain regions. Dear colleagues from all parliamentary groups, not just Roma children drop out of school, those who have not gone through the system of pre-school training and education. It's a fact that's indisputable. If a child has had the opportunity to attend a kindergarten two, three or at least two years, he completes his primary education. But if he didn't have a chance to go to kindergarten, he's out. Do you know why? Because this is besides a socio-economic and cultural problem because it enters the first grade without an existenz-minimum language training, without an existenz-minimum educational habits. He did it in the first grade and because from I to IV in the first grade, he can't repeat the class until IV. In the 5th grade he faces the equations with one unknown and therefore follow the graph of dropout V, VI, VI class. That's it! What are we supposed to do? It is very good that there is a text that preschool education and training is mandatory. Yes, but how to fulfil the obligation, honourable Members? I am the last to identify Bulgarian citizens on an ethno-religious basis outside their own will of self-determination, but in quotes, conditionally, I will talk about Roma neighborhoods as we have no legal definition of Roma neighborhoods. If with these conventions we accept as Roma neighborhood the one in Sliven, from colleague Yanko Yankov, Mr. Minister, I know that 20 000 Bulgarian citizens live in this neighborhood. How long are we going to close our eyes to the absolutely impossible, paradoxical fact that there is no kindergarten in the neighborhood? What obligation are we talking about visiting kindergartens? There's no kindergarten in a 20-thousandth district! Guess how many kids get hurt in kindergartens downtown? How much? And then we wonder why they're dropping out of school. It is good that every day we have news for the opening of kindergartens, but this news must also come from Roma neighborhoods if we want to solve this issue systematically once and for all. We at the DPS are initiating a very large national debate on this issue. We are also at the stage of an organisation at a large seminar, which we will enjoy the participation of commissioners from the European Commission, because this is a problem of the whole of Europe with the 10 million Roma. I repeat, the issue of Roma integration is a matter of education. There's nothing bigger integrative resources than education, but this problem starts from kindergarten. We demand a state-of-the-art policy, a program. We've calculated the amount needed not more than 200 million. BGN to have enough kindergartens in all Roma neighborhoods. This is a small amount of money in view of the effects we are pursuing because the dropouts of school are then dropped out of the social systems of the Bulgarian state. That's why we also face ugly phenomena like little children having children. We deeply do not accept this phenomenon, but we propose, unlike the cabinet, which recently voiced ideas to punish the expelled, to punish the consequences by cutting out social benefits, to do otherwise to prevent young children from having children. This is also a problem of this law and it must be clearly defined. As for literacy, the other fundamental problem of our education system is whether we have a real system for external evaluation, or do we have a formal, quasi-national system for assessing knowledge and competence, by, let us use the term, knowledge and skills, that is, the competences of the students. Quasi is our system, Minister! Quasi! And you don't need any other evidence. There is one undeniable, vivid proof that this is the huge gap, the gap between the high average estimates that we have for the different classes of the national external evaluation system..good, very good, 4.70, on this one, second, third, and sustainable movement to the last places in the international systems for comparative assessment of the literacy of Bulgarian children, accelerated to the last places, and otherwise inside, we are proud of relatively high national average estimates. And another paradox we continue, this is joyous, we are all proud, a huge number of gold, silver, bronze medalists from international Olympiads. A law other than being proud of its valedictors and gold medalists should also pursue the average level of literacy. We need real literaters. Particularly painful is this issue in terms of assessing the state's maturity exams. I believe, and it is our responsibility that, in the form of introducing the mandatory state-of-the-art exam, the way we introduced it, we killed the idea of the state-of-the-art exam. Yes, this system has been viciously introduced. One example. What is the purpose of Bulgarian language training? What is the maturity of graduating high school? Mathurus is mature. To what? Until the ability to draw a text, to know the language not only as a system, but to use the language in communication, i.e. to draw a text. And for last year, Mr. Minister, 37% of high school graduates refused to write a word, not to draw a sentence in the text part of the test. Argumentative type of text is the requirement. Thirty-seven percent didn't write a word, which doesn't prevent them from getting their estimate from 5 to 5.50 with zero. Words in the text part of the text. Then does this text measure the ultimate purpose of teaching in Bulgarian language, the communicative skill of the student? No, it doesn't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u81	Time to extend, Mr. Mestan?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u82	We're extending the parliamentary group's time. I'm not pleading to complicate the test, I heard your thesis. There's no need to complicate the test. Something else has to be done. It should be clear where we set the bar for a medium 3 This should be at the general educational minimum, skipping over which is a guarantee of maturity. It's the passed exam. I know why you didn't do it out of fear that there would be 40-50% pairs in Bulgarian and in mathematics. Yeah, he would have. And in order not to put down the responsibility against the next class, I suggest that you accept my proposal for a targeted state education standard for assessing state-level exams in which to resolve this issue and to be correct to the next class that will be completed and to the next. Let this criterion "Middle 3" equal to a general educational minimum, with mandatory skipping to get a diploma, apply after four years, i.e. for those students who are yet to enter high school in the VIIIth grade. We'll also offer that for a second reading. There is a fundamental problem with the financing of municipal schools. Huge experience and positive, and negative, has accumulated from the introduction of funding of the principle of support of a student. This is Mr. Tanev, who we've worked with on these matters. Mr. Tanev, Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, the absolutation of this principle, and I am talking about absolutation even despite the categorization of four or five groups of municipalities by correction coefficient, does not equal small municipal schools, especially in the centers. We have schools where the average weight gain of classes is 12 children. Notice, these aren't schools that we keep on breathing, because there's an opportunity to take students from next door to another. No, I'm talking about the municipality I was born from, because 20 years ago we opened the school year in 28 rural schools. Now we've narrowed it down to four, which means nine out of ten schools are shut down. There's nothing left to close. Yet the average weight gain of the classes is 12 children, multiplied by the maintenance of a student, gets an x allowance. What is the fault of the children of this school that there is no 13th child in the 7th grade? Unlike Sofia, where the filling rate of the classes is 26, children and they receive twice as much support for a class. Less money under equal conditions, lower quality of education service, ergo discrimination of education in small towns. Fact! We must resolve this matter. We have concrete proposals in this direction as well. Whatever it costs, we must ensure equal quality of the education service in the centre of the big city and in the least populated place. Finally, mother tongue training. By this law, you repeal the law on the curriculum, the general educational minimum and so on, where there are legal guarantees that the mother tongue is studied as a mandatory subject at least 3 hours a week. This is guaranteed by law and does not depend on the will of the Minister. You're overturning this law! However, you resolve the matter in your project discriminatoryly, I declare it responsible.. You align the status of the mother tongue with the chosen subject as choreography and you have text that the ratio of the hours for the mother tongue............................................................... [[SIGHS]] I trust you, you are a Democrat, and you will not discriminate against the mother tongue. But if tomorrow we have a minister with a little more retrograde thinking...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u83	Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u84	...where does this priority go? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For this, and because of the potentially discriminatory texts set out in the project, and given the remarks on the other main provisions of the Law, we will abstain from support, and between first and second reading we will contribute to overcoming the deficits of this law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mestan, with the fiery beginning of your speech, with which you began, for a moment I thought you had become a member of the Patriotic Front. I'm so confused! However, Mr. Mestan, when you talk about the rights of the Gypsy minority, it is good to call things by their real names. First of all, these people live in illegal ghettos and illegal ghettos can't be built kindergarten, nursery and so on. Secondly, just a day ago, a member of your party, who very well handled existential terms and so on, explained to us how, you see, it was a tradition for children to have children. Take it easy on the hypocrisy, Mr. Mestan! First, clarify several laws, led by the Law on Persons and Family, in which it is clearly and precisely regulated that children cannot bear children. Do not abuse using this really important law and this so high tribune. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u87	Second line? [[Relations between MPs from DPS and Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] There's no second line. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u88	Thank you. In the second part of the line, you actually confirmed my thesis that it is unacceptable for children to have children, and in order not to do so...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u89	So you think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u90	...needs integration through education and through culture. So much for the issue of children giving birth to children. As for the first part of the line, yes, I started speaking as a true Bulgarian patriot. [[Noise and lines from the Patriotic Front.]] Patriotism is not your territory. Your territory is the ultimate nationalism and xenophobia. Those are two different concepts. And this is also a matter of education. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]] And I will repeat once again, this is a problem of this law - Bulgaria needs enlightenment patriotism, not primary, prosthetic, extreme nationalism, which does not distinguish between multiculturalism and culturalism. [[Applause from DPS]] This is also a problem of this law. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u91	And education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u92	The word for speech is Mrs. Snezana Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u93	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I've decided to go first for several reasons. Nor will I discuss the presentation of the Law of GERB, because another one was not presented by Mr. Zablyanov, nor will I discuss the simple Sugestiya of Mr. Mestan to the Minister of Education and the favourite topic in several touches. I am rather challenged by the fact that the main focus and main problem of colleagues on the left and in the centre is the financing of private schools. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I agree with only one position of Mr. Zablyanov. And it is that the discussion of this problem, of the Law on Education, was a national topic for many years, and of the Law on Education of the People's Education... only a few months and copy-paste of this, of GERB. In this sense, I did not hear from the tribune nor a speech under the Law on People's Education, which the colleagues from the left introduced. The whole talk was on the Preschool and School Education Bill. [[Noise on the left.]] I would only agree on one thing with Mr. Zablyanov that this interest should have been much greater in the Chamber. That's my worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u94	I'll invite the MPs back to the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u95	I am now starting on the subject, and I will first declare a lack of conflict of interest. I do not have students or grandchildren at a private school. Therefore, the subject for me is important and essential. Before I start with the many arguments, because they are very much laid down in the Preschool and School Education Bill for financing private kindergartens and private schools, I will say a few things that are basic to this bill. And they are that it is strategic, it aims to turn the school into a self-regulating system, without centralisation, without bureaucracy, gives an equal I will be punctual in these because the financing of private kindergartens and private schools really proved to be the stumbling block for colleagues on the left and for colleagues in the center, which goes from the Forty-first National Assembly, although the text was among the few texts adopted. Now, to the arguments. Today's century is very different. It changes its information codes, attitude towards the student, conditions for correspondence with the student, the algorithm of the market, Europe and the world as a whole. It says here that education is a social service. Not just and not basically. It is an educational policy, it is not an objective, a basic principle regulated in GERB's Law as a national one, I stress the national priority. Private schools, along with municipal and state schools, carry out the same strategic activity for the benefit of the state and society.... compulsory school education and preparation, as well as preparation of human resources for the country, meet strictly the state educational requirements. The European experience gives many examples in this direction of stimulating European countries' participation in financing private schools. I'm going to list a little bit of them here. Countries such as Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands finance private education at 100%; Denmark at 90%; Germany, Norway and Spain at 85%, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia at 70%; Belgium also finances schools equally; and France, where the Socialists manage, the most social state in Europe also finances private education. In Bulgaria, the state reveals state, municipal and private schools, ensuring the financing of the costs of the first two based on the training of one student regardless of the incomes of his parents. Private schools and private kindergartens are not financed. The solution to this problem is delayed over time and colleagues on the left know very well about this from their adopted National Program for School Education and Preschool Education and Training in 2006. As Milena Damyanova's exposé heard instigating proclamations that this was not the case, I am ready to quote page 38 of the text of the National Program. The expected development of private education in Bulgaria, especially after the country's accession to the European Union, will raise the issue of the financial policy of the state against private schools, above all about the distribution of the principle money follow the student against these schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u96	These are today's programs of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u97	The Commission for Protection against Discrimination by Decision No 234 of 11 November 2008 found discrimination in the conduct of public policy regarding the financing of private schools by the State. It has ruled that students should be treated equally and equally regardless of what school they are studying, rather regardless of their ownership. This follows a direct application of art. 53, para. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where clearly and categorically the obligation of the state to promote education by creating and financing schools has been proclaimed. This norm does not distinguish schools according to whether they are state, private or municipal. The rights of the child must be guaranteed in accordance with the principles laid down in the Convention on Combating Discrimination in the Field of Education, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The existence of a constitutional norm on the equality of students in different types of schools, the applicability of the principle of money follow the student, the correlation for equal access to the compulsory implementation of state educational requirements and the curriculum, the public relations between the state and private schools, I open brackets for administrative, tax, credit, insurance, are an undisputed argument for the financing of private education. Private schools are a real sector in the secondary education system. So there's no speculation, because I'm expecting some, in terms of funding, I'm going to say a few numbers. They line up like this. In Bulgaria there are 2630 schools. From them in 2010 162 are private, currently 99 private schools; currently there are 72 private kindergartens, in 2010 were 54. For this funding of the principle money follow the student with average standard 1400 BGN, the necessary annual funds are about 15 million. lv. Here is the place to make a reference and correlation with private healthcare in Bulgaria. The amount for 2013 is 1 billion. 545 million. BGN and for 2014 One and a half billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u98	Time is running out, Mrs. Dukova. There are plenty of requests from your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u99	I'm going to the law where I'm going to read the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u100	I thought you were in the law all the time, Mrs. Dukova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u101	Yes, exactly in this law, but I read a Constitution, a Commission decision on protection against discrimination. The order of Art. 10, para. 3 says that when private kindergartens and private schools receive a subsidy, they can collect fees only for this activity. Article 285, para. 3 complements this concept by saying that the revenue from an activity against payment is financed costs which are incurred outside the subsidy provided. There's a lot of arguments. If there are any questions, I'll probably keep going. Please don't play conspiracy theories and don't undermine the rules that the state itself chooses. You have called the It is not only for the elite, as under the elite you understand only the rich people "extremely false hypothesis. I think you should open the box a little wider. Think outside that box.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u102	Let's be specific about the bill, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u103	Reforms are made only by action, not by general talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u104	Mrs. Dukova, there are plenty of requests for speeches. They're giving you a sign from the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u105	I'm done, but I've got plenty more. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u106	Thank you. And I am convinced that you can still, but there are simply restrictions in the time of parliamentary groups. - What's the line? Mr. Rumen Gechev is your friend. It'll give you a three-minute window.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u107	Madam President, honourable Members! I allow myself to take attitude because the future of children concerns all of us, and I feel a professional obligation. I have gained experience in Bulgaria and international experience and I can say the following. First of all, dear colleague, this must be a technical mistake. There is no way Sweden can finance 100% private schools. That's against sound logic. If the state finances 100%, then more closely than this school I do not see. There is no country that will finance 100% private schools. Then what are the privates doing? They stand with the bag on the corner and what do they collect the money of the state?! So these schools, where the state finances 100% private schools, I claim they're not, I don't know. Secondly, with regard to the principle money follows the student, I strongly object. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance there is not a single number. Colleagues, pay attention: The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, from which we asked for an opinion in the Budget Committee, has not given Parliament a single number. There are no numbers. The Ministry of Finance doesn't do poetry writing. They work with numbers. Where are the numbers? They're gone! Do you know why they're gone? Because such an approach will drag Bulgaria to the bottom of what happened to some of the private hospitals. Well, if the money follows the people, the money the state gives, out of 100 million will become 300, 500, 800 million! What, then, do we do with the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria? This is why quite rightly colleagues from the Ministry of Finance do not give numbers because they do not want to commit. Do we also realize that by removing from the budget, which is still not enough for public education, is that not enough money for public universities, schools and kindergartens? It's not enough! By removing from this money that is not enough, and we are last in the European Union, and giving it to private schools, you are also ending the system of public schools. So such an approach is absolutely unacceptable because of the numbers, ladies and gentlemen. No numbers, no account. We should not vote without numbers, as this leads to heavy losses for the Bulgarian financial system and distortion of our education system. Besides, socially, it's totally unacceptable. We still have a social divide, and that's all that's left now to pour budget money into rich private schools. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u108	Second line, come in, General Tonev. We're discussing education, not private hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u109	Yeah, sure. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Madam President, honourable Members! I think the speeches on the left are a little unprepared about... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. Laughter and excitement by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u110	No, you must make a line of Mrs. Dukova's speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u111	Yeah, it's her speech that I want to make a line about. When I first went to France, Mitterrand was president, and suddenly I came across a million and a half demonstrations in Paris to defend Mitterrand's idea of stopping subsidies for Catholic private schools. The whole of Paris rose against this idea because this is about a high level of education, not what is private, and what is state-owned. [[BSP LB.]] I'm usually a fan of the state model. In the late 1950s, when the Russians first launched the satellite, there was a statement by Nixon in which he said, "I know we're going to launch a satellite. It will be nickel-plated, it will be Italian-designed, but we are second. And for the first time this developed at Kennedy, started a subsidy of six private universities, the so-called Ivy League, which we are all familiar with. This is why America in the 1960s, due to the equalisation of the subsidy, according to the quality of education to achieve the success it achieved in space. And the third thing I want to stress, which is directly related, has a lot in common. See what development is in Bulgaria, as we had the best secondary education in Europe. What's the progress? Where did it come from?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u112	The State Department. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u113	Not just state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What you're saying is that there isn't a hundred percent subsidy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u114	Time for a line is up, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u115	That's all I'm graduating with. Two years ago, Zurich Medical University was sold by the state to two private funds and currently the state continues to subsidise 40% of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u116	But we're on the subject of preschool and school education, Mr. Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u117	Learn a little and get ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u118	Thank you for the line and me. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u119	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u120	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Secretary is gone. I'll say two sentences, no more. Firstly, the left has an ideological barrier, colleagues. It cannot accept the term "Privately." Sounds like bourgeois to her, like rich, and that's a big problem. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. Laughter and applause by GERB.]] This is a very big problem. Because I've been reproached, and they don't pay attention to these colleagues. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Because I've been blamed for not having numbers, and I've counted them so many. I can say a lot more, I still don't have enough time. But I will say this: total funds according to the Ministry of Education and Science data are 13 million. 213,000. £323. the annual funding. I won't list it for years because there's no time. I'm going to say that this is a hypothesis and that private funding is acceptable, so there are conditions. There is not a single school that can not be desired because this leads to inspection, to control, to monitoring, to regular presence of the institutions inside the school, and provides funds only from the first pillar of the four pillars of funding. I'm finishing by saying that private healthcare spends 400 million a year. [[Reply from BSP LB: And it has become very good!]] Are you against the health of the Bulgarians? Like the education of children in Bulgaria - equal children, equal access. That's it, there's no other alternative! [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u121	Colleagues, before the break, we can hear another statement. Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Today it is modern and up-to-date to reform everywhere and at any time. But what does reform really mean? A reform is meant to be reformed, amended, converted to introduce something new or something better.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u123	Wikipedia says so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u124	The health system is reforming. What's the better thing that's led to? What better has this reform done? To the fact that doctors have become administrators that Bulgarians are lost in the labyrinth of clinical pathways and loans to banks in order to survive. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This reform, in which the funding of 15% became 30 in the management of GERB in favour of private hospitals. What happened to BDZ reform?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u125	Mr. Popov, we are discussing your Law on People's Education and that of GERB for pre-school and school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u126	Yeah, yeah, I'll get to that. Thank you. What happened to the reform of BDZ, the suspension of trains and the deprivation of Bulgarian citizens... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u127	Mr. Popov, I'll take your word for it if you don't comply with the subject of the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u128	...from their ability and rights to move, including to schools? Now you're going to reform education, and how...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u129	Oh, we're on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u130	... by abdicating children who need a special approach and care to be full members of our society. Because this will happen if you accept this reform and the resource centers become responsible for the municipalities. The Law of GERB. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What equal start are we talking about when the state will finance private schools and kindergartens that are registered as traders for profit by selling education and caring for students and children in kindergartens? Is this where the percentages are going to go up? How much, until when, at who's expense? It is clear that this reform is in favor of traders at the expense of the resource centers, at the expense of those Bulgarians who do not have the opportunity to pay for the education of My kids. Why, then, do you not foresee paying these parents, who, according to your bill again, give you the opportunity to teach their children at home? Don't they deserve it?! Clearly, this reform really benefits the privates. But where is the state? Where are the social and solidarity in this reform? Where will our children end up? Most likely common workers abroad or farmyards to those who have the opportunity to pay for their education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u131	It's been like this for a while now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u132	How will the attractiveness of the teaching profession increase of these Bulgarians who are the contemporary Buddhists and guardians of Bulgarianism? GERB's bill responds with certificates, low wages, thousands of responsibilities, administrative paperwork and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u133	Say something about yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u134	Dear colleagues, this is not a reform, but a distortion of the system that clearly shows the lack of vision and perspective for secondary education. Why are you turning secondary education, as it is now fashionable for reformers slang to say, in a hub for unemployed, uneducated Bulgarians? But as long as the government's imaginary gas hub will not produce good for Bulgaria, then the education will accumulate the decline of Bulgarian culture and spirituality. Dear rulers, learn from Bulgarian history, it is rich, and do not kill the future of our nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u135	Forty-five years of history we've seen!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u136	I understand this is a lucrative business, but don't make generations mortgage their futures. Do not imprison Bulgaria to be part of this business, honourable Members. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u137	- What's the line? I won't. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll continue the debate at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u138	We're continuing the hearing. The next person to sign up for the speech list is Mrs. Boyka Marinska. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The Law on pre-school and school education, which will cancel the Act on People's Education in 1991 and settle relations in the system in a new way, has been spoken for almost 10 years. Since the issue of the need for such a law has been raised, several governments and Legislatures have changed. In this regard, both the Ministry of Education and Science and the National Assembly, regardless of what the majority was, is in great debt to children, their parents and to those working in the system, who seem to have lost hope that this law will come out of the field of promises and become a reality. Also in the National Program for the Development of School Education and Pre-school Education 2006 - 2015 was envisaged the development and adoption of a new law in the field of pre-school and school education. Such a project was first submitted in 2009 at the end of the mandate of the Fortyth National Assembly. In 2012, the next government also made an attempt and submitted to the 40th National Assembly a bill that, with some differences, stepped on the first bill as a philosophy. It was submitted for second reading in the Chamber, but was not accepted due to the early termination of the term of office. This same government bill was tabled by a group of MPs in 2013 at the Forty-second National Assembly and again in 2014, November, in the current parliament. Obviously, it turned out that the adoption of a law in the field of education requires the combined efforts of four governments, whether because this is a severe management system with many interested and sometimes opposing interests countries, which requires a very strong political will and a very serious majority to stand behind reforms, whether because society is highly sensitive to the subject and every idea of change causes a turbulent debate and sometimes protests. We have to admit that both of these are probably equally true. It seems to me that if we have a little sense of measure and shame, we should not allow the forty-third National Assembly to find itself in the same situation. I won't talk much about the People's Education Bill. Although with different titles, the two submitted bills have essentially stepped on the same basis. However, the People's Education Bill offers some ideas that conceptually do not coincide with our vision of developing the system of preschool and school education. For this reason, the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group will not support this bill. The pre-school and school education bill has indisputable positives that deserve support. First of all, it confirms the achievements in school education, state maturity examinations and external evaluation, financing the system based on the single standard and delegated budgets, the career development of teachers and others. Secondly, the bill is trying to promote a modern understanding of the goals of education, the orientation of the system towards the interests of children and students, and not towards teachers, directors or the Ministry of Education. Next, the law introduces the new educational structure that we have all been talking about for years: completing primary education after 7th grade and dividing the secondary degree into two stages. There is also greater autonomy for schools and the possibility to develop and implement their own school policies. A very important step is the introduction of public control over the management of the school through public councils, in which parents, representatives of the funding body and business participate. Last but not least, if adopted, the Law would for the first time also settle specific rights and obligations for parents so that they would be much more actively involved in the process of training and education. In structural terms, the bill could also be supported. It is good that those who developed the project have come their way and have given up the originally launched idea of a framework law to be added to the regulations. Our presented Bill, containing 350 articles and 54 paragraphs, attempts to codify matter by bringing together the provisions of the Law on Education and the Law on Education, the General Educational Minimum and the Study Plan, does not provide for the Rules of Implementation and seriously reduces the number of regulations. For all these reasons and for all these advantages, the bill will be supported by the Reformation Block Group. However, we cannot ignore some important issues that raise this bill. First of all, legitimate doubts raise the fact that the project was submitted by a group of MPs, without being clear the position of the Ministry of Education and Science and without waiting for the adoption of the government's management programme. On the main discussion issues we never heard the position of the Ministry's team. Thus, surely for the first time, a law which regulates such an important public system will not contain the will of the government and its political responsibility will not stand behind it. Although we understand the considerations of this decision, the absence of coordination and partnership should not become a model in the relations between the National Assembly and the Ministry of Education and Science, at least because, in order for the Law to be in force, it should be further developed into a series of regulations for which the Ministry is responsible. There is no financial justification for the bill and the necessary administrative capacity has not been taken into account, the envisaged transitional periods have not been agreed and these are only a small part of the issues on which we expect the Minister of Education and Science to take account, although it was good to do so before the bill was submitted. Along with the positive moments, the Preschool and School Education Bill also contains quite discussional or stressful situations, as well as a retreat from some bolder reforming ideas. Therefore, it needs to be improved by making a commitment to help clear up controversial provisions and we will be active with our proposals between first and second readings. Taking into account the large volume of the Project and the importance of matter, we would propose that, upon receiving the necessary support at first reading, the seven-day deadline for proposals for three weeks should be extended in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This will allow in dialogue with the importers to seek the most faithful solutions, to remove contradictions and in a plenary session at second reading the Commission to propose a bill that will meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens. Today I would only mention some of the points at issue. First of all, there is a certain imbalance in the Bill, on the one hand, and a very detailed settlement of some matter, mainly in the field of pedagogical impact and support. The bill abounds with specialized terminology and almost blanquet arrangements in principle, which cannot be left to the regulation. Here should be mentioned the envisaged national educational standards, some of which will not only further develop the framework, but will actually contain a primary framework of public relations, which cannot be justified by the idea of legislative economy. Some of them are so general that it is debatable how much on their grounds a sub-legal act could be issued with a particular subject matter. Incompleteness is also found in the Arrangement for the Career Development of Teachers, Status and Attestation of Directors, which practically does not have an autonomous framework in the Bill, also the status of the proposed innovative schools and others. Next, there is a certain exaggeration of the importance of modern pedagogical practices at the expense of underestimating traditional values in the Bulgarian school, to which education systems, such as discipline, are increasingly returning. Last but not least, the bill gives way to some bolder decisions at the expense of obtaining wider support. There is no mandate of the directors, it is admitted to the teachers' attestations to participate the teachers and representatives of the trade unions themselves. They're allowed to re-evaluate the director who's their employer. The closure of the resource centers is also controversial. Here, however, on this subject, after much discussion and discussion of this text from the Bill, we are already moving towards a single solution with the importers. Many questions raise the status of the envisaged National Education Inspectorate. For example, there is a need for additional arguments for this administration to be taken out of the administration of the Minister of Education and Science and to be directly subordinate to the Prime Minister. Finally, I would like to say that our proposed Bill is a good basis for conducting a full and well-meaning discussion, and to reaffirm the willingness of the Reformation bloc to cooperate and support any reasonable idea so that the school education system and our society finally have a new, modern and working Law on pre-school and school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement, Minister Tanev asked for the floor. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u141	Gentlemen presiding, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The philosophy and content of the submitted Bill and the other Bill are on a very relevant and important topic. The education system is placed as fundamental in public relations in one way or another. The texts of these bills, especially those submitted by a group of MPs from GERB, have long been known and have been developed for many years with the help of the active participation of specialists from the Ministry of Education and Science. They're familiar. What's new is no surprise. In the last two years, numerous discussions have been held and there has been a change in the positive direction of support for the necessary reforms they will bring out will synchronise the legislative framework in the field of school education with the needs of the 21st century. There is no drama in any form that an importer in this case is not the Ministry of Education. In this, the Ministry and his team have specialists who have been working in the system for a very long time and this is known. The bills have been discussed and now, after their introduction, with the team of the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Public Council, with the industry councils, with NGOs, with regional inspectors. We have spoken to directors, to teachers, and I believe that at the moment I have the right to say that the management of the Ministry of Education and Science fully supports the spirit and principles laid down above all in the Preschool and School Education Act. I mean, here's the thing. Firstly, defining education as a national priority is an idea that is not subject to obstruction, nevertheless the Ministry would never contradict it. On the contrary, we fully support her. I would add that this is a strategic priority, including national security, because the subject of national security is the Bulgarian nation, identity, the future. The focus on the development of the child's personality and the student is a topic that is not subject to discussion. Arranged in the system and calm. The main characteristics of the types of school training have made great progress in this regard. We are very happy that the autonomy of the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education is envisaged, including the right of schools to develop programmes, because we do not live in the 20th century, we live in a global society, a very dynamic society, in the world of the Internet, for which we have to pursue the ongoing processes. So without liberalisation, we won't succeed, we won't be up to date. I would say that the systems of financing, accountability and control, as well as the Operational Programme for Science and Education, for smart growth and other European conventions, are also improved. On the other hand, the Law on People's Education does not seem to fully reflect the needs of the modern development of the educational system in the Republic of Bulgaria, as it contains some principled situations that can be more difficult to share. I mean, here's the thing. The principle of education is not established as a national priority, not as an application, but as a general spirit of the Law. It is not enough that it is motivated as a Law on People's Education, which coincides with cultural traditions. The principle of compulsory school training cannot be supported until the age of 18. The development of the child's personality and student is not in the very focus of the legal arrangement. The structure of school education laid down in the Bill cannot be the basis for ordering in the system of completion and systematicity of the educational content. The principle of self-management of institutions in the system according to the team of the Ministry is not sufficiently deployed. There are other doubts about whether this bill is the best, but not to take up time. However, in conclusion, which philosophy for reforming education will be adopted from among the two alternative ones, which detail of the bill submitted by one or the other will be chosen to lay down specifically in the final version of the law, and which new ideas not contained in these two bills will generate this highest Assembly in our country, depends entirely on you, the MPs. The team of the Ministry of Education and Science is ready, as so far, to actively participate in the discussion and revision of the bills, of texts in them concerning pre-school and school education, and will work actively to synchronise what you ladies and gentlemen accept with state education standards, which is an extremely important next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. The next statement is the People's Representative Milen Mihov. Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a good word for the Bulgarian teacher. The state owes the education and the politicians owe the teachers. I'm not gonna say anything new with that. For decades, almost a whole generation of Bulgarian teachers have started and is on the verge of completing their professional path in conditions of poverty, reduced social status, difficulties and problems. However, we need to put in a good word for the Bulgarian teachers and, taking on the not easy task of creating a new law on Bulgarian education or education, to approach with exceptional responsibility. Our work today depends on what generation we will raise, raise and prepare, and that means briefly what future we provide for our children. Today we have two bills. They contain many important and valuable ideas that deserve equal attention and equal assessment. However, we from the Patriotic Front will support the bill of pre-school and school education tabled at first reading, viewing it as a basis, as a pragmatic projection and basis for the work of our National Assembly. We believe that the approach to this bill should be devoid of party and political bias because education is above politics. The new Law on Bulgarian Education must meet the public wishes for reforms in education, the high hopes for improving the conditions, training and education of our children, the pursuit of modernization and positive pragmatism of knowledge. We see one of the main tasks of legislative changes in improving Bulgarian education, using both foreign experience and based on our traditions, which must prepare young people as competent, socially active, ready to change and develop our country Bulgaria. Along with this, we should note that education is at the heart of the nation's consolidation and directly influences the nature of the state. That is why we support the idea of a single national education system, based on the Bulgarian language, history and culture. Despite the diversity of forms of training, we support the idea that education should create a common cultural field of sharing as a basis for the unity of the nation. That is why we have reservations about some ideas in the bill we support. Firstly, we are concerned with reservations about the transfer of powers in the field of education to municipalities, both with regard to the institutional powers of mayors in the management of educational institutions and in the form of the establishment and implementation of regional or municipal educational policies. Next, we find it difficult to accept the principle of State aid to private educational institutions and we are ready to put forward a serious discussion of the principle proposed: The money follows the student. Because this, in a particular respect, leads to deformities that the slang of the school sounds like a "Translation of the student as a mobile portfolio." Speaking of this principle, we have to ask ourselves, which money do the student follow? Do we have an education tax, did anyone import individual funds for the maintenance of their child? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have one public resource, which is allocated in a defined way to fulfill the constitutional obligation of the state to ensure equality and equal education of all children in the Republic of Bulgaria. We want to debate the principle of competition in secondary education, because competition itself implies inequality. There are better and less good schools, but if there is a difference between them, it means that there is also a difference in the right of children to receive equal education, and a good education. That is why we are supporters of such a discussion to lead to pragmatic solutions so as to guarantee all the rights of Bulgarian children, whether they study in the final neighborhoods of small towns or in the center of the capital, whether they study at school with 100 children or with 1000 children. My colleagues and I believe that this is a pragmatic approach in which there is no politics, no party bias. Finally, I should declare that the Patriotic Front reserves the right to propose amendments to the Law and will insist on resolving some problems between the first and second readings. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I will end up with something personal. Here before the break a colleague declared himself an enlightened patriot and described us from the Patriotic Front as xenophobes and unenlightened. That in one part is commendable, because being a patriot means loving your family, your homeland, your birthplace. This is even to a certain extent true because the colleague with a quest for an existing expression and a complex phrase has graduated from an extremely prestigious university and this is Veliko Tarnovo University. In fact, between me and this colleague, we both graduated from this university. But there's something different about him that I still teach at this university. The fact that the colleague has received a good education makes true his statement that he is enlightened. In the Bulgarian language, however, there is one word for the people who enlighten, and they are called educators. I am glad that the Patriotic Front, with its enlightenment, leads even our political opponents to enlightenment. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u144	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. I was wondering where to take your word and I couldn't find you were always moving near the Bill. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Mariana Todorova from ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The pre-school and secondary education bill proposed by Mrs. Damyanova and her team is wanted and expected. I want to show my respect for the dedication of the team and the professional precision with which the Law is made. Perhaps this has happened because the Law has gone through, figuratively speaking, catharsis, the texts have been repeatedly improved and more and more public support has been mobilised in the course of the discussions. Now the current law, which has been in force since 1991, is morally outdated, I would say atavistic, and it does not meet the needs of time. We therefore need a law with a new philosophy, and today we are discussing one. The law on preschool and secondary education offers us a new concept in several spheres.. regarding the overall approach to the child, respectively to the student, in the structure of education, in the educational programs, in the content, in socialization, in relation to teachers and parents. These are all important aspects and they determine the fundamentals of the educational system and it is very important that they be supported. A number of reforms have already begun. They must not be stopped, and the Law will enable them to continue. Hopefully the long way forward, the deep reflection of the problems will lead us to change the status quo, to solve the problems and to have a better assessment of PISA, the World Bank, not as some kind of self-image, but as a reflection of the state. ABB will support at first reading the Preschool and Secondary Education Bill, but we also have some principled disagreements. I claim that these are principled, not ideological, because I believe that we should not cash in political dividends by discussing this Law. What don't we agree on? This was also the cornerstone of today's discussion "the partial funding of private schools." Because before introducing such a measure, we need to see what the impact on the system has on the system is not to monitor whether it is just good, but also what international experience is. We believe that it would be premature because there is socio-economic instability in Bulgaria and in this case it can worsen the state of the system and not improve it. We are clearly aware of the constitutional principle that everyone has the right to education. However, when considering the issue of school education, we need to answer the question: how do we view education? As an opportunity to combat inequality through early inclusion, good quality and equal conditions. I stress the same conditions because conditions in private and public schools are not the same. How do we combat inequality by aiming to eliminate it at the entrance, i.e. at the beginning of the educational system, with a resource for levelling the possibilities, because the educational system, apart from that, is also valuable, it involves social life, the labour market and so on? Or do we want to fight inequality at a much later stage at the exit of the system when we compensate it with social benefits and it has no added value and does nothing change? We therefore believe that public funds in the form of taxes should be invested in the general improvement of the public environment in Bulgaria, for better education and health, for better infrastructure, so that the private initiative can flourish, have labour force, have quality human capital. We should not finance a private initiative through public funds when our country is ranked last in Europe and is the poorest country. These are our main objections, and I hope in the course of the discussion that we will find a compromise solution, so that we still respect the constitutional principle, but also take care of the proper functioning of the system. Private kindergartens are worth thinking about. They can be financed because this is another case, and here the state has not done its job, there is not enough quantity, and here perhaps the principle is different. We also have some other concerns about forms of training, which are eight in number. We believe that by means of the Law they could open some dangerous loopholes in the system, i.e. people who are poorer, more marginalized than minorities not to attend school, so that they can work and at some stage corrupt the system so that they can still get a diploma and qualification. However, we do not object to these forms of training, because they are generally accepted, they are by international standard. We're just gonna suggest some hitchhikers that are gonna be used against abuse in the system. We will also offer some new forms of training beyond those mentioned. We would also like the Law to have a conceptual clearance of the concept of chief education. We would not like it to be written as a Master System, because it has another philosophy, it is an alternative form of education... of secondary and vocational education, and if it is listed as a system, there will be support from the business. About the case with resources and auxiliary schools. I think that the other day was enough to clean up this problem. I think there was an unfair campaign against the importers of the Bill and just because there was a misunderstanding is multiplying fear. But I do believe that with a more explanatory campaign, these misunderstandings will clear up. Regarding the Law on People's Education, proposed by BSP left Bulgaria, we believe that it would be better if all reasonable proposals were reflected between the first and second reading of the Law, as if the two laws were seen together, they would block each other and we would again harm the interest of the children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ABB. It's a thrill. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. To make a speech, the people representative Ilian Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u147	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you also mentioned the words "national security." Our concerns are precisely about national security when we talk about the Preschool and School Education Bill submitted by GERB. We from Ataka in this bill see a huge danger to the Bulgarian society related to art. 40 of the proposed Bill. For those who read between the lines, it is more than obvious that in this bill the attachment of the DPS to the Coalition GERB, Reformist Block, Patriotic Front and ABB is visible. [[Applause from the "Attacka". Replies from GERB.]] This proposal is entirely in the interest of the anti-constitutional party DPS and the neo-Osmanist policy of the Republic of Turkey, but let us focus on the so-made proposal in art. 40, which reads: "For the needs of faiths, spiritual schools can be opened. Spiritual are the schools opened at the request of religious institutions registered under the terms and by the Order of the Religion Act. Students who have acquired primary education can be trained there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u148	There they are now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u149	Under the Law on People's Education, such spiritual schools in our country can only be created with the permission of the Minister of Education and Science, which in turn creates some control over the number of such madrasettes. With the proposed texts, today's rulers create the possibility of total invading funds from foundations from Saudi Arabia and Qatar, with which money in our country to create similar madrasettes, dressed, of course, in a legal framework. If you, gentlemen and ladies of the National Assembly, accept this proposal, the construction of madrassas in Bulgaria will become a completely uncontrolled process, and one day we will all be in Islamic caliphate. The legal settlement of such a matter will lead to thousands of Islamic schools financed by questionable Saudi organisations, most of which represent nothing else but a breeding ground for radical elements. No doubt the uncontrolled creation of an unlimited number of madrassas will further encapsulate some of the Bulgarian citizens. These same madrassas will be used as irresistible financial attraction centers for the children of the Gypsies to send their offspring to similar breeding sites of the militaryised Islam. Because in its vast part, the function of these madrassas is nothing but fanaticism, organization and maintenance of a vast army of young people who are inspired by the ideas of radical Islam who are ready to carry out mutiny in the name of their ideology. Whoever from you claims to be a Euro-Atlantic and has respected the principles of democracy and human rights, please comment also on the statement of the strategists from the White House of the United States, who treat the madrassas as centers of the new Jihad army and warn about the danger of a system that combines training in Islam with the preparation of terrorists. Comment on it! I appeal to the gentlemen from the Reformation Bloc of Korman Ismailov, filming with the neo-Osmanist Erdogan, Tsveta Karayancheva, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who visited the Congress of Islamist Erdogan, Boyko Borisov, who was hugging him and talking in Turkish, to Mr. Kasabov from the Patriotic Front, who had some rich dinners with the Turkish Consul, and not least to the anti-constitutional party DPS, do you want to turn Bulgaria into Pakistan? Do you want our country to be flooded with money coming from the Saudis for the purpose of the mass Islamization of Bulgaria? [[GERB lines.]] For the DPS, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u150	Mr. Todorov, let's concentrate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u151	I heard a few moments ago from my colleague from the Patriotic Front, who said that the Patriotic Front supports these changes, that is, you gentlemen, so-called Patriots, are for the funding of Saudi organizations in Bulgaria, for the construction of madrassas, you are for the total Islamization of Bulgaria. I ask you to come to your senses because this is a huge danger to Bulgaria's national security. Thank you very much. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u153	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u154	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the opportunity to do the procedure. To this colleague, who defined all the parties and interpreted the laws that we will adopt in terms of terms, I suggest that he read the Rules first.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u156	I should have the procedure, not him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u157	Yes, it is to you to make a remark to him the next time he comes out, to say Mr. President, in § 3 of the Rules is written. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov at the first session read it, apparently not everyone heard it. Please make comments to colleagues who are confusing the addresses. [[Relations from "Attacka" and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u158	The next speech is the People's Representative Mariana Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are several fundamental differences between the two laws that we are discussing today. I will allow myself to refer to two of them, which I consider particularly important. The first is the issue of funding, which has already been discussed in the speeches. What is my attitude as a MP and my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria? We believe that the insufficient funds for education, according to the project submitted by the Political Party GERB, will also be allocated funds to private schools, which still have their guaranteed funding. I would like to remind the MPs that they are registered under the Commercial Law. As a result, fewer funds will remain for public and municipal schools that do not have other sources of funding. If this approach were rational, it would be widely applied in the countries of the European Union, and it is a fact that it is really applicable, but with partial funding, and in the rich countries of Europe. In a poor country such as Bulgaria, it will only mean an increase in the gap between education for the poor and the rich. The result can be: poor public schools with low opportunities and thriving private schools for good education for children from wealthy families. This proposal will deepen the social division and regional disproportions in education, concreteize the need for poor people, remain poor. In the budget for this year the cabinet Borisov reduced the money for secondary education to 3.1% of gross domestic product. According to the government's three-year financial forecast, education funds are not expected to grow. At the same time, in EU countries, the average level of education money is about 5% of gross domestic product. From Eurostat's 2012 Public Education Expenditure Report, it is seen that the countries that allocate the most money to private schools allocate to education and the highest percentage of gross domestic product, and these data, unfortunately, also show that Bulgaria has the lowest share of education expenditure among the Member States. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Draft Law of the Political Party GERB was introduced without any numbers and clarity, including in the Committee on Budget and Finance, about how it will affect the financial situation of the educational system. I want to report data that already exists in the public domain that now students in private schools are about 12 thousand, and in state and municipal schools there are 600,000. In addition to applying this principle will lead to additional underfinancing of state and municipal schools, it will also burden the Bulgarian municipalities with additional costs. We respect the right of parents who want to choose a private school for their children, but according to our Bill, the state should support them only partially with free textbooks for children up to 7th grade, with scholarships for talented students and with methodological support. Once again, on the basis of these arguments, we from BSP left Bulgaria and we state our position that the budget should finance directly only public and municipal schools. The other serious difference between the two bills refers to auxiliary schools, resource centers and municipal children's complexes. In recent weeks, numerous signatures from teachers and parents have been received in the National Assembly. What are their main concerns? In the Law of the Political Party GERB is not legally assigned the place of schools for students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, defined in the current law as auxiliary schools. Their existence in Bulgaria for more than 70 years expresses the human care of both the state and society in support of the education, education and rehabilitation of these children. Our bill provides for the preservation of these schools and the extension of support for them. We stand behind the fair demands of parents and teachers and argue that there is no humane or ethical basis for the centers for personal development provided for in the other bill to be an alternative to secondary schools. We strongly state that if we go to the closure of these schools, much of the children with severe and moderate retardation will remain invisible to our educational system. [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] They will only be on the list of classes in the mass school, but they will actually stay at home as it was up to. 2004 Let us also look at the European experience, which is sometimes bitter. Such a reform was made in Italy, which is now working again to restore these schools. We believe that an expression of human state education policy will be the preservation of these schools as state schools. Care for mentally retarded children all over the world, as well as in Bulgaria, should be an exclusive right and duty of the state. In the position of the National Association of Resource Teachers, in which more than 800 teachers from across the country are members, it is insisted that resource centres remain state responsibility as specialized service units in the territory of each administrative area. [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] We have already heard reasonable proposals on this occasion from the importers of the other bill. I think we should really listen to these proposals because we believe that the restructuring of the resource centres in municipal centres with unclear responsibilities and opportunities for their existence will not lead to better results in the work. Moreover, small municipalities across the country will not have the capacity to build such specialized units, which will limit the possibility of adequate resource support for these children. Finally, a few words about extracurricular pedagogical institutions. They are also intended to become part of the centers for personal development support. We strongly believe that they should maintain, as they have so far, their autonomy as centres of science, arts and sport, where education and education are being carried out, developing the abilities of children and young people. There are numerous examples across the country of talented young people who learn and educate in these centers that we have applauded, including here at the National Assembly. In our view, mixing different in nature functioning well in education will not lead to better results. [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] A clear and clear sign of disagreement are the thousands of signatures that I believe you, as MPs, have seen from the auxiliary schools, from the resource centers and from the municipal children's complexes from across the country. I therefore urge you to listen to these voices of teachers and parents when we shape our final opinion under the Law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With great attention I am listening to BSP's statements as importers of the second bill. What the representatives of the Commission said quite softly is that he largely reproduced in fact the Bill of Colleagues from GERB, I would say that he was copied quite badly from there. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'll give you an example right away. First of all, there are whole paragraphs and passages inside that are identical and I suppose everyone has noticed. But the differences that you BSP colleagues have been looking for in terms of replacing one word with another in one sentence, just to make it look different, in my opinion, have led to quite bad results. Here are the examples. You are speaking from the very beginning about training and not about education. There was training in the years of communism and socialism, to tell you the truth. In the modern world, people are educated and thinking people are educated. [[BSP LB lines]] People who perform and who are not allowed to think are trained. So this so at first glance maybe purely linguistic and technical difference for me is quite essential. Next, you are talking instead of a general education for an inclusive education. There are many other examples. Perhaps the most fragile is the one where you say students have the right to participate in school life. Colleagues, they're part of school life. They participate in it initially, that's clear. How can they be allowed to participate in something that they are part of?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u162	I'm asking for your line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u163	My line is actually on this thing you're proposing, just to think about the things I'm telling you about, especially the part where you insist on financing private schools. Around the world, the formula is found to follow the student, not to look for a real imbalance between people receiving higher and lower incomes. If you really wanted to be social, you would have proposed in private schools, which are partly financed by the state budget, to give children to parents with less opportunities to participate in the form of a scholarship. That is, these schools should provide for a quota for participation and finance education in the rest of such people, of gifted children. That's social, I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u164	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Boyadjieva, please come in for your coat, even though that's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no doubt that the Law on secondary education caused extremely serious discussions in the Bulgarian society. Our conviction, since the Law on People's Education has been in force since 1991 and dozens of changes have been made, has always been that it must really reach a possible consensus on the fundamental changes that need to be made. It is no coincidence that we have always advocated that this bill must be tabled on behalf of the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u166	We imported it last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u167	It is a lengthy process, not just in the past National Assembly. Either way, our responsibility now, when there are two laws tabled by two political parties, is to get as close as possible to the main differences that are here, but to be in the interests of the Bulgarian society. I would like to say that what is repeated in the two bills, of course, is the result of the work and of experts from the previous years, because there are issues that cannot be commented differently, but we have always highlighted the main differences. I only spoke to two of them, but you put another question in the line to me. We have always talked about training and raising Bulgarian children. We cannot only talk about competences or about reaching certain knowledge, because the Bulgarian school, along with the Bulgarian family, has been responsible for both the education and the education of the children for all these decades. One more thing about what you've turned yourself on about funding. In our bill it is clearly stated. We are not against partial funding, but Bulgaria is not a rich country. It does not have an opportunity in the budget, which it has for education, which has decreased by 9 million in reality for this year alone. BGN, to spend more money. Yes, colleagues from GERB in the Committee on Education and Science said they would propose to introduce it from 2018. But the government's three-year financial framework shows no increase in funds, so we cannot afford as a country with limited financial resources to allocate funds to private schools at this stage. The state, according to its financial capacity, must give as much as it can afford in order not to limit and create problems in the functioning of the other schools in the country. Without opposing the two schools, the private and the public, we believe that at this stage the state should support schools that have no other financial resources but to rely on the budget given to them by the state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. For the next speech is the word of the people representative Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On behalf of the BDZ Parliamentary Group, we will support the Pre-school and School Education Bill. We liked the philosophy that money follows the student. [[Single applause and cheering, Bravo!]] Hold on, hold on. We liked the philosophy that money follows the student. However, we are afraid of getting practically what happened with private hospitals and public hospitals. Here I will quote Mr. Zablyanov, who said: "Don't let one of the schools measure the temperature in the pools and the other have no firewood. We are also strongly opposed to removing resource centres. In my opinion, if we lose one task force, we meet these people, we lose a lot. Last but not least, the name proposed by Mr. Zablyanov and BSP "The Ministry for People's Education" is much better on behalf of Mrs. Damyanova. It is traditional, winner of the Bulgarian. When the Russian writer Nemirovic-Danchenko comes here and sees the Bulgarian schools built before the Liberation of Bulgaria, he says: "Yes, this is really the people's education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech is the word of the people's representative Stephanie Mihailova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister, honourable colleagues! One of the principle differences in the bill submitted by us and the bill submitted by Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs is on the subject of textbooks. Our bill does not limit the number of textbooks that can be approved for use on a particular subject. Teachers are intended to choose which of the many approved textbooks to teach. In the draft opposition, the regulation is for the approval of a single textbook. The other difference is in the approval procedure itself. We offer a two-stage procedure. The first stage to take place in the Ministry of Education. There are projects for textbooks that meet state educational standards. At the second stage, teachers from all schools in the country appreciate the applicability in the practice of textbook projects that went through the first stage. The draft opposition essentially suggests that the Ministry of Education will decide who will be the only approved textbook. These differences are, in fact, a reflection of the differences in the spirit and philosophy of the two laws. Our project implies decentralisation; gives greater autonomy to municipalities and schools to conduct their own policies; greater opportunity for creative teachers. We do not believe that diversity is a problem or an obstacle, but we see it as a value and an engine of development. For those who are not familiar with the subject, I would like to say that what we are proposing is similar to the current mechanism, with a fundamental difference at present, the number of approved textbooks is limited to three, in fact, we propose that this limit be dropped. What are the arguments in favor of our proposal? First and foremost, we believe that the availability of diverse opportunities allows the teacher to choose the textbook, which is most suitable for the specific conditions and needs of his specific students.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u172	The financial opportunities!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u173	This is key to a successful educational process. It corresponds to our concept that education should be tailored to the individual characteristics and capabilities of each child and is consistent with the UN Convention on the Rights of Children and with a joint comment number one to it, according to which education should take into account that each child has unique qualities, interests, abilities and learning needs. The only textbook is for an average student, and it doesn't exist in nature. The second argument, not only students, but teachers are different. Some are more innovative, others are more conservative. Different is the style of teaching, the way of communication. The variety of opportunities allows teachers to choose this textbook, which more fully corresponds not only to the needs of their students, which is undoubtedly leading, but also to the views and styles of the teachers themselves. This leads to greater comfort and satisfaction in the work, better motivation and ultimately a better result than education. Thirdly, the regulation on an unlimited number of textbooks stimulates competition because the real possibility of market share, it was also small, motivates more publishers and authors to participate in the process, and competition maintains the quality and is an engine of progress. Another argument in favour of our proposal is European practice. In all European countries, perhaps with the exception of Greece and Romania, the number of approved textbooks is not limited. Moreover, in some of these countries, the regime is even more liberal, even lacking an approval procedure. With regard to the procedure for the approval and evaluation of textbooks itself, we believe that what we have proposed is an advantage, as it proposes a mechanism for all teachers in all schools to participate in the evaluation process for textbook projects. In relation to the transparency of the procedure and the limitation of the opportunities for corruption, the opposition bill proposes a competition for a project and a negotiated procedure without a notice, which is a relatively less transparent scheme. Furthermore, it is not specified whether the project contest will be opened or limited. One concern of ours is that the choice, approval of a single textbook and the focus of the decision on who to be in a single institution, such as the Ministry of Education, creates serious prerequisites for corruption, as the stakes are indeed very high. I would also refer to some arguments that are given in favour of the decision on a single textbook, but I will not do so so so as not to take up the time of colleagues who also want to speak. Finally, I would like to say that we are seeking a new education system that does not educate in a mold that knows and recognizes the differences, is open to the new. We believe that freedom in choosing textbooks is a step towards such a system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mihailova. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Borislav Veliev. Here you go, Assoc. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our time is relatively short, so I will just say a few words to give my colleague Tanev the opportunity, who also wanted to add something. If we rephrase our predecessor of this tribune, today is a good day for Bulgarian education, as we begin to see a...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u176	But his prophecy was not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u177	Yes, thank you, Mr. Stoilov. However, for education today is an important day and this Preschool and School Education Bill, which will be the basis of the future law, is undoubtedly something that deserves to be supported by a possible greater number of MPs. Of course, I would call, as there is a close connection with higher education as well as what we are discussing today, and to the President who is currently, colleague Glauchev, and to the President Tsacheva, not to delay the rethinking and the entry into force of the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education, but this is a little further away from the topic. Here I have to say that the Committee on Education and Science is a very working committee. Many discussions were held in both areas and in this building and in the other building of the National Assembly, and there is common support of the Pre-school and School Education Bill. This does not mean that in the draft of colleague Zablyanov and other colleagues there is no useful work, and as our young folk representative Todorova mentioned, between first and second reading I also urge them to present them as proposals. Among the merits of the Preschool and School Education Bill are some other things, such as the dual training system, that is to say, training through work, something that employers insist on very much. What the people's representative Mestan mentioned about the criteria, or as he successfully used a more Bulgarian word, the indicators of quality at national level should be tailored to those of the international assessment. The arrangement for inclusive education with the inclusion of the new element of support for personal development is also something that is new and very useful. Of course, we will take into account all the considerations that were expressed here and by the National Representative Boyadjieva for the municipal or united children's complexes to complete the framework for their activities. This has to be done. Under no circumstances should we harm the children with special educational needs. They still need to be given the necessary care and training. All these things, including what is related to extracurricular pedagogical institutions in general, to protected and metropolitan kindergartens will also support it as a proposal, including some legal and technical issues Between first and second reading, there is much work to be done by the Commission and by the Members who will be involved. Thank you from now on, all of you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u178	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs! While we have all been fooling ourselves for many years with the beautiful suggestions about the intelligence of the Bulgarians and the high quality of Bulgarian education, today we find ourselves in a situation where our children are very difficult to read and even harder to write. Therefore, I believe that there is no doubt in any of the MPs in this Chamber and beyond that we urgently and urgently need a new Education Act. The Law that must combine the good practices, the good traditional values and achievements of Bulgarian education and modern world views in this direction. We have already stated that the Patriot Front will support the proposed Preschool and School Education Bill, and we are clearly aware that the Law provides many answers, but it also raises many questions. Between the two readings, we will make our proposals and, of course, all that is proposed by the other parliamentary groups will be adopted by us and voted in plenary. Our proposals are not secret, they have been announced many times. I will therefore briefly remind you in what direction we will make our amendments to the Preschool and School Education Act. We are for introduction of a subject of Rodoloving in the initial course of education, meaning not only the study of national history, but the study of foresight, family memory, of the contemporary achievements of Bulgaria in the field of culture, arts, sport, extremely important for the national self-esteem of young Bulgarians, things that they should learn from the earliest age. We are about the introduction of military training and action in accidents and crises in a high school course, and the aim is to acquire knowledge and skills for action under extreme conditions, even more relevant against the background of our constant violent disasters and the lack of any training not only in young people, but also in every Bulgarian citizen. We will insist on studying Bulgarian history among the compulsory educational subjects in the second high school stage of education and of informatics, information technologies and arts in the first high school stage. We are for compulsory training in the kindergartens of 4-year-olds in order to socialize and absorb the Bulgarian language. We are here to preserve resource centres as state institutions responsible for supporting children with special educational needs at regional level, but given the proposals made by importers, we are ready to accept some change in this direction. At the same time, the Preschool and School Education Bill lacks respect for Bulgarian schools abroad. We are therefore to determine the status of Bulgarian schools abroad as an integral element of the Bulgarian education system. Last but not least, we are about changing the methodology for forming delegated budgets. It has already been stated in the government's Programme Declaration that at least 50% of the formation of delegated budgets will be based on quality of education. That is why we will demand a change in this direction. Finally, honourable Members, I would like to call on you to be responsible and positive when adopting the Pre-school and School Education Bill at first reading. This may be one of the most important laws to be passed by the Forty-third National Assembly. The Law, which will draw the direction for development and create the conditions for the development of the Bulgarian nation in the coming decades. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! A colleague from the Patriotic Front, I heard a lot of things you listed, but I didn't hear about the notorious art. 40. Is that why you are in Bulgaria uncontrollably creating madresettas with Saudi Arabian money? Is this your patriotism to make us here in Pakistan or the equivalent of the Islamic State? If that's what you're for, say it clearly. Say: "We from the Patriotic Front want to have as many madrassas here as possible, to Islamize Bulgaria, to build mosques and whatnot." [[SHOUTING AND SPEAKING IN P.F.]] I heard a lot of things, but I didn't hear about that article. 40. Tell us your attitude on this matter. Why are you for this invading Bulgaria uncontrollably to invade such Islamic waves of money from Saudi Arabia and Qatar?! Why are you here for this? Explain it to the Bulgarian citizens to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u182	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u183	Dear Mr. Todorov, you have obviously only read one article of the Preschool and School Education Act. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] I think a debate can be very difficult when there is a lack of knowledge of matter and of the proposed changes. As far as our opinion is concerned, I stated in my statement that we will accept all reasonable proposals made between first and second readings, and that does not exclude our opinion and opinion on the issue that you are putting forward. Your concern in this direction is strange to me given your close relationship with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms lately and the lack of any speeches in this direction. [[Applause from PF]] Now, apparently noting the melting rating of the formation that you represent, you seem to be looking for a little more sharpening of the situation with your rhetoric against the Patriotic Front, given that we have made quite reasonable proposals in the direction of... [[Reply of the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] Yes, thank you, Mr. Siderov. [[Reply of the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] It suits you very much, Mr. Siderov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u184	Don't call from the hall, Mr. Siderov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u185	I believe that the proposals made by the Patriotic Front really concern the Bulgarian nation, and what you are proposing is ridiculous. [[(The National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs from the National Assembly of Ataka chanted: "Ethnocrat! Ethnocrat!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u186	Order, please! Come in for a statement, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the Bill for the Bulgarian School of GERB there are many ambiguities and controversial moments. I will take into account two specific ones that threaten education as a system. First, the number of textbooks per item in a given class. Now it's up to three textbooks per item. GERB's project proposes to remove the restriction and it may be possible to have many different textbooks on one subject, and from different collectives, with different thematic and problematic accents. Could be 10, could be 20 textbooks. Well, imagine, a teacher sits in the summer with the 10 textbooks on his subject, reads them carefully and chooses his best. Then he offers them to parents and students. Sounds amazing. What's going to happen in practice? Publishers will go around the individual teachers, invite them with gifts, maybe with money, and force them to choose their textbook. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] Do you have any doubt that in 90% of cases teachers will choose exactly like this? It's corruption, a system that corrupts teachers. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] The state itself will corrupt its teachers and then you will want quality education! A moral example of teachers, respect from students to these teachers, will not happen! This can't happen! Our proposal is that we return to a textbook for each class.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u188	Who?! Who?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u189	Carefully thought out, written by truly competent authors, meeting content standards! It is the only way to protect ourselves from corrupt practices in teachers and to increase the very quality of textbooks. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u190	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u191	It is the only way to protect ourselves from corrupt practices in teachers and to increase the very quality of textbooks! In addition, only the Ministry will take responsibility for the content of the textbooks. Now there are many scandals about the content of some of the history and literature books. Responsibility is transferred to authors and publishers. I think the responsibility should be the only and only of the Ministry. And this can only happen with the introduction of a textbook.. one textbook per subject for a given class.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u192	Who?! In BCP history?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u193	The second important thing is that the project has an idea to widen the possibility of individual home education when desired by the parent, not only for children with disabilities and special needs. With children like that, there's no problem with parents' wishes. Moreover, if in this training parents and these children receive help from the resource centers, which should not only be crushed as in your bill, but need to continue their development and modernisation. The problem is if the door opens to all parents. Now there's such a fashion.. their individualism makes them keep their children locked up at home. Such parents do not appreciate the fact that going to school is an upbringing in public order and collectiveism, sharing with others and developing social sensitivity in children. Colleagues, let's think this through. Let's not give the opportunity, let's not stimulate such harmful atomization. Let's not stimulate such antisocialism. There's another option. In a small village or town, there are no students for the school. It's about to close classes. Three families are pulling their kids out for homeschooling. They make a small cooperative, hire teachers, and their children study again in a closed artificial environment. However, the school numbers remain quite insufficient and classes are closed, then whole schools. The whole neighborhood or village loses this institution. He's walking towards primitiveity. Migrating outside is getting stronger. You can see that this is a bad option. Not just for the specific children anymore, but for the settlement, for the general social environment. In the end, the work will be brought to this end.. the parents who preferred home education to ask the state to pay them that they chose to train their children at home... the current controversial case of the state funding of private schools...... but uploaded to square......................... you do not let your child go to school, and you do not trust the state and you ask for money from it! Once again, I call: it is not good to open the door so wide for home training. Let this opportunity be given only for a limited number of cases, only for children with special needs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u194	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u195	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Mirchev, I would like to make a line on the issue of textbooks, as it will obviously be a sharp issue on which to debate. The issue of textbooks should not be addressed politically or in a public sense. Therefore, the idea of the single textbook that you have made with reference that this will reduce corruption, from a historical point of view, is unfounded. For the first time in Bulgaria uniform textbooks were introduced after the coup on 19 May 1934. Studies show that corruption is getting much bigger. You will find out that a publishing house and an author's collective, who has a chance to get a monopoly...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u196	Mr. Mihov, there is a statement from your group and you will not have enough time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u197	...on a textbook, he'll be practicing for a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u198	Thank you. Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u199	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Mihov, you understand that with the textbook scissors so open, it will be the same as in the health care department, they enter into the personal doctors constantly agents of different companies and offer their medicines without even feeling obliged to prove the quality of these medicines. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]] In this way, corruption will also be inserted into the textbooks. Not to mention that outside Bulgaria there are many interests that will immediately start sponsoring the publication of Bulgarian textbooks in large quantities from both more extreme countries and from some outside the ocean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u200	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I will be as brief as possible on some of the issues that have not been addressed so far in the speeches. The debate that is being held today in the National Assembly is extremely important because it concerns education in Bulgaria, which needs to be changed, but for most of the colleagues who are speaking as reform in Bulgarian education, it is very important for me to talk about mechanisms for change, which will lead to consistency in the reforms that are taking place in order not to get these shocks and this fear that the Bulgarian teachers now have about what will happen and what reform is expected to take place. On the subject of Bulgarian teachers. I think that only one of the speeches focuses on this issue. In GERB's Law, this question has not been raised.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u202	Well, enough of your manipulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u203	In the years of transition the Bulgarian teacher had to be part of the middle class. Unfortunately, this did not happen for many reasons, including poor wages, including not creating conditions for his requalification, motivation in all these years. The student is important, he is the focus of the reform, but it is important that the Bulgarian teacher is protected, supported. This support is not only through the law, it must be continuously implemented in all the policies that the Ministry of Education and Science conducts. Either way, in the BSP Law you have a whole section that concerns pedagogical specialists, qualification requirements, career development or motivation...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u204	It's been copied by ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u205	Please don't interrupt me! After all, shouldn't we respect each other?! I say things I see in the laws. Make a line if you want. It is not a well-developed issue in terms of professional high schools. It is not enough to note that they exist. They must also be supported, and their financial security, their financial support with a base is something that must be written in the law. Finally, allow me just one minute in terms of financing private schools. It's not fair, guys! Why? Because in this economic situation that we are in right now, we cannot provide quality education in public schools. We're looking for quality education, and what do we get? We have achievements, these achievements are accounted for, but they are in profiled high schools. In secondary schools and in vocational high schools, quality is not at the necessary level. We must support this quality by means of additional funds. A lot of schools are shutting down. It's a fact that bothers everyone. The closure of the school means that the people who live in this populated area also go to the big cities. Instead of maintaining private education, give us the necessary means to keep these schools as long as possible, to support them not only through delegated budgets but also on other systems. I would very much like to talk about Bulgarian education professionally and with care and desire to help him. A law can really make and create the necessary framework for this. I propose and invite you to support the BSP Law because in this Law there are sections, proposals that are important for discussion and which will solve some of the issues of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u206	Replies to Mrs. Bachvarova's statement? Mrs. Marinska. I apologize, the Secretariat tells me your group's time is running out, Mrs. Marinsky. I'm sorry! Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Bayraktarov is recorded. You have a minute and some time, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Guys, today is really a good day. However, I will not forget to remind you that it was no accident that we wanted to introduce a psychotest to parliament. It's a good thing there's a debate on this important law. The specific issues that I would like to draw your attention to, because they are extremely important, are the so-called "mother tongue'. However, I would like to point out to you that after a certain period, those who so very much insist on the mother tongue being mandatory and such a timetable in the Bulgarian Constitution is missing and does not exist, after a period of time they will ask the documents in the state administration to be issued also in the relevant language, which will result in an enormous amount of expenditure. That's what I'm telling you right now. It wasn't a coincidence that I paid attention to a gentleman who used epithelials for the Family Code. In the Education Act, we must involve the parent. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Just tell me, colleagues, how are we going to involve the parent when he's a child himself who gave birth to a child?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u208	This is a topic of another debate, Mr. Bayraktarov. We'll get there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u209	In what way will he be involved in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u210	Thank you. Mrs. Galya Zaharieva wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u211	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I will try to present to you one of the most serious changes proposed by the Preschool and School Education Act and at the same time one of the most significant differences with the Law of colleagues on the left, which is why we cannot accept their ideas. From today until our bill becomes a law, we will seek the broad support of all colleagues in this House to launch together a qualitative new process in the realization and implementation of our education, namely the regulation of inclusive education as a process of awareness, acceptance and support of the individuality of each child or student. Integrating education is a process that seeks to eliminate all forms of segregation in education, to cover vulnerable and isolated children for one reason or another and to encourage and promote their participation in the educational process. In a Court of Auditors report, 2011 reports that there is a correct effect in the process of integrating training for children with special educational needs. Dear colleagues, the first steps have been taken, but it is time for a serious step. It is important to realise the difference between inclusive and integrated education. In integrated education, we have an adjustment of the child to the environment, and what we want to introduce is the opposite environment to adapt to the requirements of each child. Integration is understood as the return of students with special educational needs in mass classes, and inclusion implies a significant change in the way the school operates in order to adapt to the needs of each child. This requires extremely serious reform not only in education but in acceptance, in behaviour, in the attitudes of the whole society; it also requires changes in the training of teachers at the same time before starting their careers and, of course, at its time; it requires a change in the attitude of parents who need to be more involved and the attitude of teachers towards inclusion in both special and mass schools must change. Dear colleagues, educational segregation is a serious problem and is a violation of one of the fundamental human rights. We should not allow the model of education for children with special educational needs to generate social exclusion, to cause irreparable damage to their psyche, to ensure isolation from social life most often forever, and from there to become a severe social problem. That is why we offer a serious and different new element in the educational process, which we have called and defined as a support for personal development. In the speeches before me we heard a lot of point points that are trying to disprove an extremely new, modern and most importantly a proactive theory that we want to put into practice. This is support for personal development. We've staked the change in this direction to go through a few moments. The first change is about auxiliary schools where one part of children with disabilities are trained to this day. Nowhere, honourable Members, we are not commenting on the closure, elimination of good experience and good practice, we are talking about a transformation of auxiliary schools that will become centers for supporting personal development. The aim is to ensure equal access to quality education, non-discrimination and exclusion of any possibility of segregation. This change is an important step in ensuring the right of the child to be trained like his other peers, eliminating a practice for which our country was sentenced by the European Social Rights Committee in 2008 for discrimination against children with disabilities. Two arguments I'll give in the direction that this idea is correct. The first is about auxiliary schools and their existence. Ten years ago the number of auxiliary schools in the country was 75, 8459 children were trained in them. Today, ten years later, the number of these schools is 47 and the children are 3179. Unfortunately, this does not mean that children with disabilities or with special educational needs have been reduced, but rather talks about another trend that these children find their way into mass schools and kindergartens. Another argument. In two of the districts in Bulgaria and currently there are no auxiliary schools. This is Sofia District and Smolyan. All children who need support and inclusion are in kindergartens and schools in both areas. Nevertheless, we realize that this process should not happen quickly and sharply from one shift to another. Therefore, in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law, we give a serious transition period for this transformation to take place, and it is 5 years. This is intended to be done on the basis of an analysis prepared by the regional support team for the personal development of children and students. The analysis must include an assessment of the educational needs of each student and a proposal to redirect it into appropriate form and form of training. Another important difference, honourable Members, in support of our bill, is our proposal for the support of children with special educational needs to be carried out on several levels. The first and most important level will happen in kindergarten and school and the responsibility for this will be theirs. These gardens and schools, where there are children with special educational needs, will receive funding for them and by these means will be able to appoint resource teachers, psychologists, logos and other specialists. Most importantly, in support of this proposal we have a wonderfully working and good model with a pilot project that is implemented in 84 schools and kindergartens. Several arguments for the implementation of this model taken from the practice of colleagues working on the project. First, direct connection between parent, student, resource teacher, pedagogical team, school management, director, which reduces contact time between all participants in the educational and inclusive process. The intermediate role of the intermediate unit is off the table. The information gets to the director right away. The contacts between the parents and the team that work with each child are improved. Secondly, resource teachers and psychologists are employees of only one school. The place of work of the entire team, which creates and implements this supportive care for children, is in the same place, in the same school. Do not waste time traveling and walking between different schools for taking hours on schedule in each of them. Teachers become part of this collective. The expression "We and they" is replaced by the expression "We." Third, a trained school team on site. Fourth, trust built between the parents and the team and the student he works with. Fifth, a material base. Sixth, optimally efficient use of the financial resource. The second level of support, honourable Members, is giving municipalities the opportunity to open their municipal centers for support for personal development. With the change of the model, each municipality, where there are children with special educational needs, will be able, according to its own specifics, to the region, the municipality, on the territory, to fulfil its commitments and to support adequate care for the children who need it. If the school and kindergarten in the municipality do not have the resources to carry out this assistance, it will be supported by the municipal center for personal development. And now, fellow Members, what I have heard most often, the most often spoken lie and the most frequently repeated point of reference for the closure of the resource centres. I would like to say that our firm proposal was never about closing, but about transforming them. As a result of ongoing to date discussions on the texts in our Bill, we will propose between first and second reading changes that will provide the last third level of support for children with special educational needs. The Resource Centres will be maintained as a state specialized unit to the Minister of Education and Science by revealing them with a new name, according to the new functions. They will be regional centres for inclusive education, will carry out assessment, guidance, monitoring, methodological support and conduct cases of children and students with special educational needs in the relevant administrative area. They will be attended by multidisciplinary teams of specialists who will take into account the needs of the children in the region for which they are responsible. The aim of this team is to acquire its own capacity to provide support on the territory of those municipalities where there is no established center for personal support or kindergartens and schools are experiencing relevant difficulties. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would like to say that through these three levels of support, the existing and familiar models of support for children with special educational needs will become modern centers of personal support, which will be in constant contact with the mass school. There will be no lack of funds or reduction of teachers. On the contrary, there will be more and more need for specialists. The children will not only be deprived of the care of teachers and specialists, but will receive it almost full-time in kindergarten or school something, honourable colleagues, which is missing from the other bill. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. In conclusion, I have something important to say. I am convinced that each of you knows the difficulties that children and families who have children with special educational needs go through, whether in personal terms or in the experience of our loved ones, friends and acquaintances. I would like to show, honourable Members, with our vote today, that we support the original idea of inclusive education: Respect diversity. Every child is different and special, but the specialty does not give us the right to send a part of them to locked rooms at the end of the city and label them. Let us create the conditions for each Bulgarian child to walk its special and different way of knowledge.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u212	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Siderov wants the floor of speech. [[The National Representative Milena Damyanova wants the floor for the extension procedure.]] Before that, however, a procedural proposal to extend the debate to the vote on the two bills at first reading. Please, fellow Members, let us vote, as the Minister also wants to take the attitude, we will not have enough time in the remaining minutes. They voted 121 MPs: 90 against 26, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Siderov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u213	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to start right now by saying that we're against this law. Why? We've already announced. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] We made it very clear. My colleague Ilian Todorov explained very well what path you open in Bulgaria with this law "Lobbyist, anti-Bulgarian, anti-Bulgarian" the way of the madrassas. Who opens this wide gate to list one after another the GARB party. Why GARB? Because they are Citizens for the Anadolu development of Bulgarians. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations by "Attack": "Bravo! "]] The RIformator's block is the format they've understood since 1990. The so-called "Patriotic" is not to remain in Bulgaria, but some call it the "Money Fund" which the genius once again said: "Patriot is, the soul gives, but not his soul, brother, but the soul of the people!" [[strong noise and lines from right]] [[Strong noise and lines from PF. A line from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] You're already convicted of defamation, so don't take your fingers off, 'cause you're gonna get another conviction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u214	Please, no personal...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u215	Make a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u216	And I'm doing the...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u217	Make a note of this specimen that shows the middle finger, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u218	Please, no... It's not average, but it's finger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u219	Please get him out of the room. That's the level...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u220	Please, colleagues, have a little more patience, give us a chance to hear...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u221	This is the level of those who are currently making it so that in Bulgaria tomorrow the next history textbook will be by the author Ahmed Davutoglu in three volumes, and in it the period after the 19th century will be called the Renaissance. Why is this being done? Look who they're in a coalition with, because I missed one...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u222	Mr. Siderov, we are discussing the Preschool and School Education Bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u223	This is important because I have to explain why this is happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u224	...and the People's Education Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u225	Why is this project being done?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u226	There's always debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u227	Yes, we should always be aware, Madam President, with the genesis where things start, the root. Otherwise, we won't be able to explain the world around us. How do we explain it to the kids in these schools? You have to explain to them where evil comes from! All those in charge of the patriots are in coalition with Kasim Dal's party, the man for whom I made a report to the DANS in 2008, when they made the Agency that this is an agent of the Turkish services, an agent of the Turkish special services, a conductor of Wahabism in Bulgaria. [[noise and lines]] Right now... [[Loud noise and lines. Communicating: "Stop it! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u228	The second time I pay attention to you sticking to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u229	This party has embraced the patriots...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u230	Don't force me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u231	...and write the new history textbook of Bulgaria with author Davutoglu. Shame and shame on you! As soon as you press the button, you will cover yourself with disgrace. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Bravo!" by "Attack." Claps by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u232	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Krasimira Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u233	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! With the draft Law on pre-school and school education introduced by us, we aim to create conditions for active and democratic functioning communities to each kindergarten and every school, creating public councils. [[Loud noise and lines.]] A key focus in the bill is the opening of kindergarten and school, making them a key institution of the community. The creation of public councils is one of the main differences between the two laws under consideration. In the Bill of BSP left Bulgaria is not provided for. We can certainly say that the Public Council is a body for the development of the educational institution and civil control of its management at school really must be given the opportunity for direct monitoring. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the Bill we propose that parents become participants in the educational process. This is the way and form in which we give them this right to participate. What will be achieved by creating public councils? The problem of responsibility and accountability to the local community will be largely resolved. The system will begin to reflect the distribution preferences of parents, not just the professional group. The tensions on the axis will be reduced. Balance is achieved in the interests of the various stakeholders, local communities are built over time, involved in the development of school and kindergartens and the system at all. Here you would ask me the question: "We now have a school board?" The school board is really a non-governmental organization registered under the Law on Non-profit Legal Entities. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46c of the current Law on People's Education are described in more detail 16 activities which the Boards can carry out with a view to achieving their objectives. Each fourth of these activities relates exclusively or mainly to the role of parents as donors of additional funds for the school's activities. It is no coincidence that half of the directors interviewed in the framework of a study of parental participation in school life in Bulgaria since 2010 respond that they see a major contribution of the board in providing sponsorship. In this sense are also changes in the functions of the boards in the proposed by us Preschool and School Education Bill. We know that school board membership is voluntary and no one can oblige a parent to become a member of this association. In addition, we have many boards that are of good practice, but there are also those who are far from fulfilling the functions provided for in the Bill, for example, to give opinions, to express opinions on textbooks and teaching aids. On the other hand, in most of the school boards we have people who are far from parents. The parents, members of the Public Council, will be elected not as it is now. The members of the board will be elected by election, which is a condition for transparency. The parent who has collected the most votes will therefore be a member of this Public Council. This will be specified in the rules under which the Public Council, issued by the Minister of Education and Science, will function. On the other hand, it is extremely important for us the participation of a representative of the funding body, for municipal schools this is the respective municipality. Municipalities should have direct monitoring on the spending of public funds and on the life and problems of the Bulgarian school. Through the Public Council the municipalities will participate in the formation and adoption of the main decisions for the development of the school and kindergarten, in a strategy for development, separate programs and policies, budget and will control the work of the Director. For professional high schools we have included mandatory participation by a representative of employers. As you look at the functions of the Public Council, you will see that they are indeed at the level of co-operation. When considering the issue of the attestation of directors and teachers, the Public Council is expressing its opinion. Of course, the attestation is carried out by the employer, but when in the issues in which the Public Council could be competent and our observations show that both parents and the funding body are very often relevant, especially when the municipality is a funding body, this vote will not be decisive. Dear colleagues, during the management of the triple coalition school councils were established in implementation of the National Program for the Development of Secondary Education and Pre-school Education and Training, and of the Agreement for the Implementation of a Pilot Project for the Decentralisation of Management in the System of School Education, signed by the Ministry of Education and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. This pilot project includes ten municipalities. The functions of the proposed by us Public Council overlap somewhat the functions of the school board, so we do not offer anything new. I will finish my speech by expressing my personal position not only as an importer of the Bill, but also as a director with over 20 years of experience in the secondary education system. My personal conviction is that every director, every teacher needs support and understanding, and through the Public Council he will meet supporters and corrective in his work. There is a need for will, joint efforts and responsibility of each participant in the educational process. Parents, teachers, students, municipality. Everyone should feel committed and empathetic, and this can only be achieved through the Public Councils. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u234	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u235	Madam President, Mr Minister! I have one minute to try to summarize the discussion. We understand that GERB offer us some inspiring ideas to turn kindergarten into a democratic community, to make education a priority. How? With the current 3.5% budget for education and science, after 25 years ago, these funds accounted for 6.1% of gross domestic product?! [[GERB lines.]] They offer us a priority to be education, treated not as a good and as a right, but as an educational service. Instead of talking about raising the foreground of educational standards, they continue to repeat to infinity that money will follow the student, turned even into the wood, followed the student in the place of his inflatable training. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] This is all part of your modern concept of education. [[The President signals that time has expired. Claps by BSP LB.]] Instead of us caring, above all, for those who study in public and municipal schools, education should be socializing as education and education and finally as social functions, where children can eat, have, wherever they want, school uniforms, and not go with towels and shampoos in the Bulgarian school, so that it can maintain quality and be accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u236	The weather, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u237	That's why your law is unsuitable. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u238	Mrs. Kotseva, do you want a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The battle for education is one of the toughest and the toughest, so it is very often marginalized. Today we were obliged in this Chamber to bring out the debate on education outside the small interparty wars. Sadly, I often wanted to make a line with a few words spoken by Matthew the Preobrazhenski - Mitkatoto: "Learn, my dear children, while it is youthful, that old age is not pity upon you. " [[Applause from GERB.]] I will not take up any more time for the National Assembly. We will have a second reading of the Preschool and School Education Bill, because today, in this Chamber, I feel that there is political will. Because today we are talking about the future of our child, and childhood is not just a waiting period, to wait for the little man to grow up, because if today, here and now, we are not talking about the child, precious moments of his education will be missed. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, parents, MPs, political will, joint responsibility and consideration of the important role of each and every one of us in reform that we are obliged to do. Please support the Preschool and School Education Bill. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u240	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Preschool and School Education Bill, No 454-01-51, submitted by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 November 2014. Please, voting mode. They voted 161 MPs: 107, against 32, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Negative vote please, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u241	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against because we will break a Bulgarian tradition. With this proposal, the Bill will deepen inequalities and bring more and more market into Bulgarian education. Behind the beautiful phrases, behind the modern terminology is not the child, teacher and teacher in the center, but the schemes are put: how to delegate some rights to the non-governmental sector without knowing whose hands the children will fall into; how the children with special educational needs will not have access and support to the specialists and Bulgaria is poor; how the municipalities will be burdened more and more. Therefore, honourable Members, this euphoria in years will be very dear to the Fatherland. Not as expensive as money, dear to the nation and I think that everyone here who overflows with joy in this consensus will be responsible for what will happen in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-05.u242	Is there a second negative vote? I won't. I put to the vote the People's Education Bill, No 454-01-64, tabled by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2014. Vote 149 MPs: 27, against 67, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Communication on Parliamentary Control for 6 February 2015, Friday 11:00: The Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration Rumyana Bachvarova will answer a question from the MPs Maya Manolova and Dragomir Stoynev; The Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva will answer one question from the MP Ilian Todorov; The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer 12 questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Georgi Tarnovalyski, Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Petar Slavov, Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Kadiev two questions, Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev, Grozdan Karadzhov, two questions; The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer two questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, and Iskren Veselinov; The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer 10 questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov, two questions, Georgi Nedev, Villas Lilkov, Krasimir Yankov, Hristo Gadzhev, Georgi Kadiev, Desisslav Chukolov, and Borislav Iglev and two questions from the MPs Nikolai Alexandrov, and Kiril Tsochev; The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 11 questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Bunyamin Hasan, Aidoan Ali and Hamid Hamid, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Mustafa Ahmed and Erdinch Hajrula, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, Yavor Haytov, Svetla Bachvarova, three questions, Maya Manolova, and Dimitar Bajraktarov and one question from the National Representative Cornelia Nino; The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer four questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Emil Raynov, Krasimir Bogdanov, and Velizar Enchev; The Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov will answer five questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Georgi Kadiev, Valentin Nikolov Ivanov, Maya Manolova and Kristian Vigenin, and Svetoslav Belemezov; The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Dimitar Dubov in general, Kalina Balabanova, and Ivan Stankov (two questions) and one question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer eight questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Valentin Pavlov, Dimitar Gorov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Dimitar Shishkov, Desislava Atanasova, Nastimir Ananiev, and Cornelia Ninova and two questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov, and Nastimir Ananiev; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Ljiljana Pavlova will answer 15 questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Ivan Valkov, Vyara Tzerovska, Yavor Haytov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Villas Lilkov, Yavor Haytov and Hristo Todorov The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer four questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Ivan Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, and Volen Siderov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov asked a question from the National Representative Ayhan Etem; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova answered two questions in writing by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev asked the MPs Dimitar Tanev and Boyka Marinska a question with a written answer from the MP Stanislav Stanilov; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova addressed five issues by the MPs Manol Genov, Manol Genov and Radoslav Stoychev............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva for a question with a written answer from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; "The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov" to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov; The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski addressed two issues by the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov; The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov and Slavcho Atanasov; The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov asked a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva answered three questions with a written answer from the MPs Hasan Ademov, Angel Naydenov, and Kalina Balabanova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the CPNS, due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to: six questions from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva (two questions), to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, and to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; A question from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to pre-planned meetings with international participation, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate in the parliamentary control. Tomorrow, the plenary session starts at 9:00. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
