ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention the following Project of the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 25 to 27 February 2015. 1. Abort the authority of the MP... resigned from the National Representative Stoyan Tonev. 2. A bill for the ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer and Citygroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P.L.C., Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG as Organizer and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 000 000 000 000 euros, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Agency Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as Enumerator and Citibank N.A., branch London, as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Agent for the Calculation of Citigroup Global Marks Deutscheland AG in the capacity of Registrator, Payment Agent and Agent for the Transfer of the Large Risk Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria to issue bonds worth 8 000 000 000 euros, signed on 6 February 2015 and on the Act for the Entrepreceding of the Republic of Bulgaria in respect of the Global Debate. 3. Draft Decision on the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020. Importer: Council of Ministers 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers: Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs continued since last plenary week. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the fiscal council bill and corrective mechanisms. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act [[General project based on the laws adopted in the first vote on 29 January 2015 with importers Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs, and the Council of Ministers]] . 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Draft decision to elect the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Importer "Michael Mikov." This is intended to be point one for Friday 27 February 2015. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. I put to the vote such proposals Project for a programme for this plenary week. They voted 201 MPs: 150, against 42, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is received a proposal from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov for inclusion as a point in the weekly program.. First reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests submitted by Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. Mr. Stoilov, you are welcome to make the proposal for inclusion in the weekly program.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as you recall, last week at our initiative this item was again proposed. We then agreed that it should not be put to the vote because it was committed to the Committee on Agriculture examining other legislations and drafts for decisions in the same matter. At yesterday's meeting, which the Commission held, it did not come to the vote on open issues. Therefore, we believe that new initiatives, or that there has been no ruling on all proposals so far, are no longer grounds for delaying this issue. It is presented to your attention as early as the end of November. Meanwhile, the cutting of Bulgarian forests continues. Currently, this is happening even in water zones in the Rhodope Mountains, in Stara Planina, in Strandzha. There are various initiatives on the same issue, because one of the proposals contained in our Draft Law is to move from the current regime to the Madam President, I expect the Committee on Agriculture to rule at today's meeting by voting on open issues within this topic, and I propose that the National Assembly accept the inclusion as a item on the agenda of the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Forests Act, as point five, before the vote on the Law on Bankruptcy and after the amendment to the Energy Act. That's our offer. Please support all those who have repeatedly said that such changes are necessary, have made proposals and should now confirm it by their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u3	I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal for inclusion in the weekly programme as the fifth item of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Forest Act. Vote 171 MPs: 58, against 23, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable MPs, there are legislations tabled by all parliamentary groups. I have the feeling that you have not understood Mr. Stoilov's proposal and do not sincerely want to take legislative measures against this barbaric destruction of the Bulgarian forests. Barbarian! We watch it every day! If you sincerely want to implement the legislative initiative and not use it only for political PR, you should realise Mr. Stoilov's proposal, vote and have a majority on this issue. The other is a delay in time and only a demonstration of legislative intentions. And that's not sincere to people who see trucks every day coming out of the country's borders. Please, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u5	It is not sincere for your Commissioners to vote to postpone the vote at a committee meeting and not have a committee report. [[Heckling]] Ask me for a procedure in the manner of being led so that I can explain what's going on with these bills. I'd appreciate it, guys. [[Heckling]] It's a re-vote. Vote 180 MPs: 71 against 31, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 18 February 2015 to 24 February 2015. A bill amending the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Importer "supplier" Volen Siderov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statement for the months January "June 2014" Importer "General Director of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency." It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including the financial statement for 2013. Importer "The Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Importer Miho Mihov. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer Miho Mihov. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer: Menda Stoyanova and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision on change of composition and management of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophones. Importer Miho Mihov. A bill to amend the Forest Law. Importer "supplier" Volen Siderov and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Project for a decision imposing a Moratorium on exports of raw wood. Importer "supplier" Volen Siderov and group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Project for a decision to elect the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Importer "Michael Mikov." On 20 February 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information on the main results of the monitoring of the workforce in the fourth quarter of 2014. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 20 February 2015 the Ministry of Justice of the National Assembly received a Report on the extent of the implementation of the approved policies and programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Justice for the period 1 January 31 December 2014. The report was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that an exhibition dedicated to the upcoming national holiday with relics and copies of famous paintings will be opened in the northern lobby of the National Assembly. The relics are from the Military History Museum and are related to the topic of Liberation and the upcoming national holiday. At the opening of the exhibition are invited to attend all MPs. I repeat, this will happen during the break of today. Colleagues, we're going to point one of our program: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. With request, I'm in. No 554-00-471, as of February 24, 2015 National Representative Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev of the Parliamentary Group of GERB stated: Mrs. Tsacheva, I am resigning as Chairman of the Committee on Health at the National Assembly. In addition, I request an early termination of the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly elected by 13. Mir Pazardzhik, with the list of PP GERB in the forty-third National Assembly. Due to the increased public interest, I am obliged to withdraw from parliament. I am confident that this will guarantee the independent investigation of the competent authorities, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors. I referred personally to the Attorney General and to the President of the Court of Auditors yesterday by insisting that full checks be carried out. In my letters to the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors, I demand that the legality of the management be established and the manner in which the Treaty of the Ministry of Interior was concluded for the period from 28 August 2002 to 1 January 2015. Ms. Tsacheva, I think that this is the only way to preserve the authority of the largest Bulgarian health institution of national importance and of particular importance in cases of war and natural disasters, as well as to clear my name. 24 February 2015 On the occasion of this request, I propose to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly a draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He suspended the authority of Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev as a MP from the Thirteenth Election Region. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor for a procedure. In his motives gene. Stoyan Tonev pointed out that he made this application because of the increased public interest. There is no doubt that in recent days the interest in the situation of the Military Hospital has indeed been highlighted. On this issue, we have also discussed several times here in plenary, all the more so that the second point of the weekly programme is a debt vote. I believe that what is happening and what is happening in the Military Hospital has a direct bearing on the second point. Therefore, I propose that the debates on the first and second points be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Radio and the Bulgarian National Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u7	At the same time, shall I submit your proposal on both points?! [[Replication by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. A line from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] Mr. Tsvetanov. Wait a minute, let me get this straight. Mr. Merdjanov, the first point of debate is not what is happening to the Military Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u8	Let's not specify now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u9	There's been a Constitutional decision... [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] I will not allow a debate with another subject, Mr. Merdjanov, on the occasion of the request of a Member of the National Assembly for termination of his authority in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u10	How can you not allow...?! Back proposal Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u11	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers and deputy prime ministers, honourable fellow MPs! There is a volition of a MP and here to do direct inclusion on the National Radio and National Television, I think it is pointless. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] Dear fellow MPs, all that has been exported to the public, you know that in all these years many governments have ruled, which, in one form or another, have suffered this to happen if it is actually proven. I propose that, as an obnoxious suggestion, if there is a direct transmission, be only on point two. The debate that is being held on this point is indeed extremely important and excites the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u12	Since there is no way, and the opposite opinion is only with regard to part of Mr. Merdjanov's proposal, after consulting colleagues here we propose to vote separately on the first direct broadcast point, and I will therefore submit on point two. We are voting for Mr. Merdjanov's proposal to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Radio and National Television directly. They voted 201 MPs: for 76, against 104, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Merdjanov's proposal, supported by Mr. Tsvetanov, for the direct broadcast of point two of the weekly programme. [[(Radio.) Loud noise and lines.)]] Colleagues, we are voting on the proposal for a direct broadcast of point two. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Guys, do you understand what we're voting on? The excitement of the residence and of non-ministers at the seat of the Council of Ministers clearly aroused the mood in the Chamber. [[(Radio.) Loud noise and lines.)]] 195 MPs voted: 190 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I am opening the debate on your proposed draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today I do not see Mr. Tonev in the National Assembly. I'm specifically going out to ask Mr. Tonev to come to the stand and explain why he's resigning. You said yourself that there is a public interest in his resignation, in what has happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u14	He says it in his application.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u15	Realizing that there is a public interest, to come here and explain to us why he resigned. Is he right? Isn't he right? If he does not come here to explain, let the chairman of the parliamentary group or Party GERB come out and say this. Your signature was under the appropriate list, wasn't it? I want him to come out here and say. Otherwise, just briefly comment on the fact that he resigns as a MP... Yeah, that's right. The party that proposed it as a member of parliament, the list with which he entered, yes, he has that right and behaves dignifiedly. Let this dignity go so far as to stand before all of us in front of his former colleagues and explain why he is resigning. This is my request to you. Ask Mr. Tonev to come here. Mr. Tsvetanov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group, or Mr. Borisov, I understand that he would come to the National Assembly, to stand here to explain to all of us and, respectively, to your voters and to the Bulgarian public. This is our desire from the Ataka, and I ask you to comply with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u16	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not a supporter of behavior that brings revelation with a reverse date, nor do I share the feverish excitement of throwing a piece and a piece into the chamber, figuratively speaking, on which a person has already been placed. First, however, I take the floor to explain that there is no irresponsibility and uncontrollability on the part of the Ministry of Defence with regard to the activities of all structures which are subject to the Minister of Defence and I am convinced that the current Minister of Defence will also support it as an opinion. In particular, there is no irresponsible attitude towards the activities of the Military Medical Academy. Secondly, to explain that in the face of General Tonev as head of the Military Medical Academy she is lucky to have a supervisor who made the Military Medical Academy a prestigious health care institution sought by the people because of the quality of the medical service and having perfect equipment and attitude towards patients. That's one side of the question. The other side is that we have a series of extremely serious violations between 2004 and 2013. The month of November when General Tonev was retired due to his age. A series of violations in different directions, including, of course, regarding public procurement, financial management, administrative management, the organisation of Voisk health. I want to separate the activities of the Military Medical Academy from the general choir of attacks to a health institution, a choir, in which the attitude and quality of the people at the Military Medical Academy seems to sink to the bottom and remains only the visible part associated with dealing, accusations of corruption and idleness. I don't know if everyone in the Chamber is aware of the complex structure of the Military Medical Academy. It is not only the building in Sofia, but it is about three pillars for a multi-profile hospital for active treatment and healing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation, for individual medical stations related to the organisation and activities of Voysk healthcare and, of course, individual specialized units in its composition, such as the institute or the laboratory for aviation medicine. We are talking about a health facility with 17 departments, 33 clinics, 116 wards, 21 laboratories with 11 compartments, separate 10 separate compartments and 104 medical points on the territory of the country. It is to be clear how complex the organization of the activities of the Military Medical Academy is and how complex the verification of the activities of the Military Medical Academy in this composition, structure and management is. I am in a hurry to say that very often the activities of the Military Medical Academy have been tolerated in terms of the financial resources that have been allocated on different lines. For a reference on a budget for 2013 of 74 million, pay attention to 43 budget corrections, the budget of the Military Medical Academy is up to 150 million. lv. From 74 to 150 million. lv.! Of course, I will not concern you with the value of bedtime and the value of medicines compared to other healthcare facilities. I say all this to highlight the volume of activity carried out at the Military Medical Academy. And here, if there is no precise guidance, responsible enough for the activity and the way in which it operates, if there is no transparency in the huge volume of contracts that are concluded, you understand that all the prerequisites for corruption are created. In addition, the corruption risk assessed according to the standards of the Ministry of Defence is assessed as one of the highest for the Military Medical Academy. For the period from General Tonev's retirement until April 2014 checks were carried out in three directions. I say this to make it clear that we have a very focused view of what has happened because of the findings contained in the audits, respectively, in the inspection of the Inspectorate. The first line of checks is regarding verification by the Ministry of Defence Audit Unit, which ended with findings in March, including with regard to high corruption risk. The second line of checks is regarding the Inspectorate. The third line of checks is with regard to materials received from the SANS. Ladies and gentlemen, they all speak of the following. Structural and financial crisis, including with regard to the general state of the health institution, findings of deficiencies, poor administrative management, poor financial management and accordingly high corruption risk, breach of contract, a corresponding violation of the employment of employees, including a civil contract. I stress all these inquiries to say that in the period April.July on explicit orders, then I was given further checks, including by the Military Police, including the Legal and Normal Directorate of the Ministry of Defence, and eventually all this ended with a resolution and an order to send all the materials to the Military District Prosecutor's Office, including, of course, pre-trial investigations by the structures of the Military Police. The facts that appear in the last days are not any novelty and should not be seen as surprisingly occurring in the last days and weeks. They have been known since May, when they obtained a complete form of all checks ordered in relation to the state of the Military Medical Academy. Another question is why this attention is now being paid to findings known more than six months ago. That's a question I don't want to deal with. The fact is, however, that a series of violations are at the heart of the issue, which ultimately led to General Tonev's decision to resign, including as a MP. I respect his decision, there are grounds for his decision and I will support his request for resignation as a Member of Parliament from the Forty-third National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? I won't. Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u19	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ministers, honourable Members! I'm the last person to be tempted to blame, to give out qualifications, as was done in the recent past. Of course, I can't help but recall that these debts, the 100 million, of the Military Hospital, were accumulated in the period 2009 - 2013. Naturally, after all what my colleague Angel Naydenov said about all these inquiries - things that have been known for three years, I would ask the question: why now and in this way? I'm sorry there's no Minister Moskov here because I wanted to address him as well. Speaking of military hospital, we forget other hospitals that have nearly 500 million obligations, where we have no guarantee that such practices do not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u20	Let's get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u21	Minister Moskov says how, you see, 88 municipal hospitals that have accumulated 50 million debts. At the same time, only one of his caretaker hospitals has 50 million obligations, and he has four months of silence over what is happening to these obligations. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u22	Mr. Raynov, I'm sorry, but we're discussing Mr. Tonev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u23	So let's not talk about hospitals that didn't execute a ministerial decree. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and lost money at KTB. [[GERB lines.]] Finally, I would like to say that it is time for Minister Moskov to start ruling and stop acting like an opposition because people expect better health care. Failure to answer these questions, which we have four months, will not solve health problems. Thank you, I was brief enough. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u24	Thank you for that, Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. Other Members of the National Assembly. Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u25	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues! Perhaps at first glance, it seems a little exotic to discuss a resignation from a person who has submitted it with worthy motives. But it's only at first glance. It would not be exotic to discuss this thing if this resignation was not known two days before it was placed at the highest level by the leadership of the Political Party GERB, by its chairman, who is also prime minister at the moment, which two days before the resignation was put said that he would ask for it, and we know that he is the person who, by asking for something, it cannot be given to him by GERB. The way this resignation was requested, and the way it was filed, brought us to a dilemma. The dilemma is why this is happening. The options of the political party GERB and its chairman are infinitely principled and uncompromising to their members, who, even at the beginning of a judicial procedure called the "trial proceedings" without a known end, are ready to sacrifice the person and he to resign, or it is a matter of smearing the situation and throwing dust back into the eyes of the people, to say the simple transfer of guilt from the healthy head of the sick. Whatever! Let's look at both options. Probably as a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, and every citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, would be pleased the first option to be the truth - principle, integrity, a person is placed in a judicial situation, seeking the truths, we have a judicial procedure, started pre-trial proceedings and the person resigns, Party GERB and its supervisor maintain this thing. I would be very happy if this were so if the same party and the same leader hysterically, including from this tribune, were not defending a member who has already been sentenced to two instances. And I ask: what is this about? [[Noise and lines from GERB, applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u26	Mr. Ermenkov, we are not a tribunal in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u27	Please! I'm talking about the resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u28	We're not a tribunal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u29	We find ourselves in the hypothesis that this resignation has been filed, if I may paraphrase it, in the way it is said: The Wizard..................... to meet the scale:.. The Ladies cut off their tail. I want to be very precise here, and it's that what worries me is not the credibility of this thing. I'm pretty sure that's exactly what this is. I'm worried about the mutation of the lama, which in its normal species is a three-head with one tail. Our llama turns out to be one-headed, but with many cutting lines, more famous than Iskra Fidosova, Miroslav Naydenov, Vladimira Yaneva, Philip Zlatanov. And today, Stoyan Tonev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleagues, please! There are quite a few decent people among you, I hope the dream of the top of your political career is not to become the godfather of another severed tail. Be careful!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u30	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Yankov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u31	Can you bring order to the court? Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u32	There is a request for order in the Chamber. Mr. Mikov's voice is heard in the front row.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u33	Can you extend the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u34	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u35	Honourable President, Ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! For me, this resignation is not an expression of Mr. Tonev's personal will.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u36	Who asked you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u37	It is a logical development of a process, detailedly reflected by the media. Here are the headlines I read on the subject. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] If abuse is proven, the only measure against Stoyan Tonev is to leave the parliament. Borisov: Tonev is out if he is proven guilty. Borisov took Tonev's resignation without waiting for the investigation. Borisov kicked Stoyan Tonev out of parliament. Borisov got rid of Gen. Stoyan Tonev. If the information submitted is proven, then the only measure that can be taken is Tonev to leave the parliament or not to be a member of GERB. But I stress: if his guilt is proven. This is personally claimed by Mr. Boyko Borisov. Finally, emancipation: After a conversation with Borisov, Tonev resigned. How do we decipher through the chronology of what has been published? Should we believe that the Prime Minister has conducted a preliminary investigation that has established Mr. Tonev's guilt? If so, I ask the Prime Minister to brief Parliament on the results of his investigation, most likely using parliamentary control. Obviously, this is not about a self-retired resignation, it is about ahead of the forthcoming investigation, prosecution and court proceedings. To launch compromised figures is a normal personnel policy of GERB. [[GERB's line.]] Before the head of the current Health Commission, let us recall the name of a former president of the Legislative Commission from GERB; there is now also a chairman of the parliamentary group who is confidently walking towards third instance after the decisions of the first two met public expectations. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u38	Mr. Yankov, stick to the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u40	- What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and deputy prime ministers! I take the floor to explain a few things to my colleagues on the left that they obviously don't understand. Yes, there is such a thing as resignation. It is submitted voluntarily and is usually accepted. I can't figure out how many days people had to do. I think it was more than 400 days when people cried out every day. [[(A singular voice "Bravo!") (Applause from GERB.)]] Obviously there is a misunderstanding here and for you this act simply does not exist in your political existence, ladies and gentlemen on the left. Understand, it is normal in such a situation when a person feels that he must cleanse his good name, resign and deal only with it so that there is no doubt that he wants to use his social status to influence the process in question. However, as we have seen many times since the last story, this does not apply to you. We have witnessed how many times it was requested, including the immunity of your former chairman, but it was not granted. Don't go on. Such facts may be untraceable. Just accept that! I suggest that we respect this personal act of Gen. Tonev and really let the investigating and competent authorities say their word. Let's see if there's any, if there's no violation, if there's any guilty officials who can bear their responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u42	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u43	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Slavov, I use the thesis of your speech to emphasise the following because you have affected the problem. The Constitution says that the powers of a Member of the National Assembly are terminated by resignation. I know that the President of Parliament, and colleagues from previous parliaments, and unfortunately, the Constitutional Court, too, allows debate on this unilateral statement to be held. The strange thing is that you as a lawyer can also answer what will happen if the National Assembly does not vote on this unilateral resignation statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u44	There is a ruling of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u45	Well, exactly, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u46	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other! You're making a line of one MP, you're talking to another MP, Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u47	I accept the note, Madam President. I invite you, Mr. Slavov, to make a request to the Constitutional Court regarding the application of the constitutional norm in question. Let's find out what the opinion is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u48	There is a ruling of the Constitutional Court that has spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u49	The Constitutional Court's explicit opinion on the debate on the unilateral statement. Mr. Mikov, don't call from the spot! [[Loud laughter and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u50	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Slavov? You won't use it. Will there be a personal explanation, Mr. Mikov? A statement, but it'll be after Mr. Mihov, who's been waiting a long time. Mr. Mihov gives his turn to Mr. Velchev. Here you go. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u51	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I'm surprised there's a party here who wants to make an asset again. If we didn't know each other for the first time in this parliament, it probably wouldn't have made such a big impression on me. I just want to remind you that everything you've mentioned and the people who've given their resignations, because that's what I'm saying, again, a worthy act that wasn't known to 2009 until GERB entered parliament. This act, especially for the party that made so many speeches, not only is it not known, but I would like to remind my fellow Members that this is the party which, when someone screwed up, made a mistake or deliberately committed a crime, they do everything they can to cover up this man. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It's the practice to remind my younger colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u52	Mr. Velchev, the item on the agenda is different.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u53	I'm on the agenda, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u54	You've already gone too far off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u55	In order for my colleagues to understand me, I need to go back a little. When, at the totalitarian time, a minister was wrong, he was transferred to another ministry or an ambassador. Nothing has changed at all, colleagues, nothing at all! Why? Because what have you done with your Chairman and Chairman of the PES? You sent him to Europe to save himself from prosecution. [[Laughter, excitement in BSP LB.]] You laugh, but I'll remind you of another fact you can't deny.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u56	Is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u57	He's from the Forty-First National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Did you talk about it when you explained something about Mrs. Fidosova? No! To tell you the truth, colleagues, there was a minister in the 40th National Assembly, a former minister who had renovated a 19 million-dollar building, and experts said that a new building was worth 8 million. This is why a case was brought, despite their resistance, the immunity of their MP, a former minister. It has become so that now, at the moment, this minister, for whom the case has not yet been completed for 11 million proven. lv. abuse, teaching, notice, at the Library Institute. [[Loud laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u58	Mr. Velchev, we are discussing Mr. Tonev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u59	She also teaches at the UNWE. [[Radio, laughter and loud applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u60	We are discussing the resignation of an active MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u61	I don't know what the subject is about whether it is related to its activities for the 11 million! Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u62	- What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Popov. The reply of Mr. Krasimir Velchev. Do I need to recall one more time the draft decision that we are discussing? Colleagues on the left, on the right and on the center, please. This is a statement by a Member of the National Assembly who wishes to terminate his term of office prematurely. We're listening, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u63	Thank you, Madam President. My line is to Mr. Velchev. I am surprised why the management of GERB did not ask for a personal explanation, because in your reply you are actually saying that the management of GERB has no decent behaviour because they do not resign. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines "Bravo" was!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u64	Mr. Velchev, if you understand the line, take the back. I couldn't understand it myself. I admit it. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u65	And the back, like the line she, was nothing, that line, but still, colleagues, look at what you're hosts and then go out and talk about morality. You can't have people who show unprincipledness on a daily basis and not talk to this legacy you claim to have, a hundred years old, how do you in this tribune speak of morality?! And you are suing a man who I thank to Mr. Naydenov, who very well explained what it is about, how complex the structure is this Military Medical Academy. And that everyone who's run, though one firm, knows that every single manager is exposed to very big risks and to situations where he can always be misled in order to make a mistake. And why are we having this discussion over one action, again, which is so foreign to you, but so foreign to you! Show me one of your people from whom he came out with dignity from all the scams in which you shoved him when he became a supervisor. So, this line... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u66	Mr. Velchev, no one here is talking about scams! We're not a convention. The draft decision has been repeated several times. Mr. Mihov, we're listening. [[National representative from BSP LB wants the floor for a reply.]] That was a doppelganger. It's been a long time for lines... [[Heckling]] Because your colleagues are standing, distracting you, talking, and that's why you can't monitor the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u68	On the microphones, Mr. Mihov, for not hearing your address!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u69	Ministers gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, colleagues! I would like to call on you, although there is no procedural possibility to end this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u70	Well, don't do it if there's no chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u71	At the very least, we have heard very unworthy speeches about a decent man so far. Whether he's guilty or not will decide the court. I'm sure most of you, of all of us, during those 12 or 13 years when Gen. Tonev was the director of the hospital, he turned for help. And when were you right, and when were you hypocrites? Then when you were saving your loved ones, acquaintances, or now you're suing him from this tribune? [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]] When? And just so you know, this is a professor, a doctor of medical science, General Vanyo Tanov... [[Loud laugh, lines, calls.]] Sorry, lapsus. [[Comments from GERB: "What to do when we have many generals! "]] I think very few of us... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Stoyan Tonev! I think it's only because of the titles he has that we have to show him some respect and not comment here, because we are neither a court nor a prosecutor. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u72	Mr. Mikov has declared a wish to speak. After him, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, dear Members of the National Assembly! When I asked to speak, I wanted to draw attention to the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs that there is a Decision No 2 of 26 February 1992. I do not know if you were a member of the BSP then, or if you entered later.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u74	And was he even born?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u75	Yeah. And it is good when the President of the Legal Committee speaks to the National Assembly even more, not to comment on future decisions of the Constitutional Court, but to deal with the matter and in this case Case No 2 of 1992, it is very clear that the National Assembly has the right to discuss, has the right to vote against the case of Mr. Christopher Dochev of 1992. This right is outlined in the relevant decision, but then other gentlemen spoke and raised the question: what are we the successors of the BSP? We are the successors of a party with 124 years of history and pros and cons of that. We are the successors of the party in which today's Prime Minister and President of the National Assembly were members, Mr. Velchev. And others. [[Radio.]] And we bear this responsibility and this burden, and those who will be after us in this party will continue to carry it when GERB will not be there. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u76	A line? Or a personal explanation? Before that, a line to Mr. Mikov? Mr. Kasabov has a line to Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u77	Mr. Mikov, when you stand here and talk about your party, you must speak with deep shame. When you say you've been the successors of this party for 120 years, remember the story. This story of your party is marked with blood, terror, harassment, as it is modern to call it racketeering, and in general, banditism! This is your party! And when we remember the last years of your government, in the last two triple coalitions and the single management of Oresharski, then tell me how and how you killed Bulgaria? In fact, you are nothing else and if I have to use the words of your docksmen, you are the gravemen of Bulgaria! That's it! This is your party, Mr. Mikov! So do not brag about your history, but pour ashes on your head and keep quiet there somewhere in the corner, because you have brought far more evils to Bulgaria than well-being. In fact, well-being is personal, and it is for some of your members who have become multimillionaires or oligarchs. Because your party is the biggest oligarchs. They are mostly in quantity and in quality, greedy, blatant and insolent! This is your party! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u78	Second line? Colleagues, once again, I call on us to return to the subject of the point on which the debates are going.. Draft decision on early termination, based on a personal volition, mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Would you like to use the back, Mr. Mikov? You won't miss the welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I wouldn't do the same to poor Kasabov. [[Laughter and applause by....Attack..]] But as a matter of fact, if this party hadn't ruled over the years, there wouldn't be a Military Medical Academy today, as it seems. [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]] I wasn't! Because the years are remembered by people and they don't remember short to two, to three, to five years since they entered politics. The Bulgarians remember much more. They remember the years of construction, of economic development. [[(Comments from GERB: Yes, and Revival Process, and Camps, and People's Court!]] They remember the years, including those mistakes, perversions that no one hides or denies, but denying what was built, denying what was done, denying the lives of your fathers who participated in this creation is mere cynicism. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u80	Mr. Kirilov's personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no way in the face of a line about a personal explanation. Always the one who makes the back of the bed should be addressed by name to the re-repairer. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mikov, in 1992 I was your student at Sofia University. You were a criminal law assistant, I remember the exercises. I have not read in 1992 the constitutional decision in question, but last year we gathered the entire constitutional practice in terms of the moment of termination of the powers of the MP and I should stress that this practice, not only since 1992, has constitutional decisions and since the beginning of this century, is contentious. It shall be constant only in respect of the moment of termination of those powers. I have not commented on future decisions, but I have made an invitation to another MP in view of the controversial constitutional practice shown by quite different formations of the Constitutional Court to make an up-to-date request for this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u82	To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov. I suggest we focus on closing on this point. [[Noise and lines.]] I can't stop it myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, and especially those on the left, do you realize what circus you are turning the right to volition of a Bulgarian citizen in the first place? Do you realize that today, with the circus you are playing, you are throwing a stain on a Bulgarian officer who has done well by resigning to defend his honor? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Whether he is guilty or not, the Bulgarian Constitution clearly signed that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. Here, however, you are neither prosecutors nor judges to issue sentences, even less you are entitled to this audience than children above to turn the highest tribune of the Bulgarian Parliament into a circus. But today I want to pay attention to you, since you are so principled, why do none of you comment on Biserov's resignation for example? And how come they forgot all the media about that face? Why has no one commented that there is no state institution, honourable Members, to ask for the dismissal of two municipal councillors from the DPS? One of them has been indicted for two years for trying to bribe an official, and look, there's no power, no state to take him off the post of municipal councilman. The second case belongs to a municipal councillor from Rouen Municipality of DPS. However, these people have no honor in applying and fulfilling the law themselves. I would like to see you vote against a statement by such a representative of the people. [[(BSP LB: Who told you that we would vote against?) We are going to vote on it.]] You said yourself that the Rules give you this opportunity. Then I ask you: why are you playing this circus when you are going to vote for it to make a policy of an act that is permitted, it is personal and I say again, an act of a Bulgarian officer? Madam President, in addition to this speech, I am also making a procedural proposal to put an end to the debate on this issue. [[Laughter and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u84	Mr. Bajraktarov, the time of the parliamentary groups at the first reading of a bill and when debating a decision is unacceptable to end by voting, but I join your call to the MPs to focus on the conclusion. The call was not heard, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Kadyev wants a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u85	Dear colleagues, without any intention of speaking to any food merodiya, but I was challenged by Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Bayraktarov, such people as the two municipal councillors you mentioned from the DPS, there are probably in any party.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u86	We don't have any in ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u87	I would like to remind you of the mayor of Burgas, who has been convicted of customs fraud. [[Noise, lines and laughter from BSP LB.]] Import of goods at reduced value, which is a customs fraud under the Criminal Code, convicted, with an effective sentence. There is no pre-trial proceedings, no acquittal, convicted, with a sentence in effect, and is nevertheless mayor of Burgas. It will certainly be uplifted for a third. Now I would like to read to you, honourable Members, part of the audit report, because here it appears that we are almost throwing a stain. General Tonev is an emancipation of what is happening in Bulgarian hospitals, and the MMA is an emancipation of what is happening. In fact, we are having this debate so that these things don't happen, because if some of you asked him for a favor to get their relatives there, there are millions of Bulgarians who wanted to come in and couldn't get in because they didn't have money. Here are some of the conclusions of the audit report so you don't think we're making something up: On the part of the MMA, all the conditions are set up for Derma Primm........................ to carry out its activities with public resources for a private purpose. This phenomenon can be defined as privatization from the inside. Inexplicable inaction by the management of the MMA throughout the contract and after its expiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u88	Mr. Kadiev, we are not discussing the audit report. Colleagues, in what language should I say that we are currently in procedure.. Project for a decision on the volition of a Member of the National Assembly for termination of his term of office as such?! If you want, raise the debate on the subject of the VMA audit report, but that is not the problem of today's debate, Mr. Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u89	That's the problem, Mrs. Tsacheva. [[Noise and lines.]] The problem is not General Tonev, he's gone. The problem is what's left after him. This is what we want to raise today as a question, because everything that has happened has happened in the period of action since 1 December 2004, now we are 2015. For this entire period, in the vast majority of it, General. Tonev was in charge of the MMA. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u90	You didn't listen to Mr. Angel Naydenov, who very correctly defined the period, Mr. Kadyev. You're sitting back and you can't hear what Mr. Angel Naydenov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u91	Ms. Tsacheva, I quote an audit report on an official document.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u92	Because he was for a specific period, but before him there was life too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u94	Is there another line? Mr. Bajraktarov, the dodger, but please, at least you should consider your own call.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be absolutely brief and punctual. I don't know where the government hospital is, and I don't know where the MMA is, so you can't charge me with that. However, I read in the media about a lady, perhaps a coincidence, with the Kadieva family that managed electricity exports, and some serious millions were entering these companies. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] So that's what I've read. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u96	Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u97	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u98	You can't explain yourself. You replicated what personal explanation?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Is there another MP? There are no other demands. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the draft decision to terminate the mandate of Mr. Stoyan Dimitrov Tonev. I specifically presented you the solution. Vote 173 MPs: 158, against 10, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u99	Thank you, Madam President. A discussion of our fellow Member coming out of the National Assembly has become an election debate or election campaign. If the left wants to release Kadiev as the candidate mayor of Burgas, this is not the place to announce it. I don't understand what the mayor of Burgas had in common...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u100	I can't understand you either! Since we voted on this point, why do you have to give a personal explanation, Mr. Abu Melih?! I can't understand you either! Your procedure is not in the manner of conduct. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u101	Madam President, it was one topic, but we turned it to the mayor of Burgas. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u102	I know exactly what the subject is. I've made ten suggestions about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u103	The best city to live in...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u104	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. [[Strong noise in the hall. People's representative Georgi Kadiev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Be understanding, Mr. Kadyev. [[The National Representative Georgi Kadiev insists on a personal explanation.]] Mr. Kadyev's personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u105	Dear colleagues, when will you learn that whether a city is a good place to live or not does not justify its mayor?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u106	And what are you personally affected by, Mr. Kadyev?! The debate is not for Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u107	The fact that a hospital has treated thousands of people from your relatives doesn't justify the director of the hospital. Nor does that justify anyone else doing one, two, three good things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u108	What did you personally take offense at asking for a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u109	From the speculation that I was going to be a candidate for mayor of Burgas. [[Loud noise and shouting in GERB.]] I didn't even...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u110	You've been speculating before...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u111	I am not a resident of Burgas at all! [[Loud noise, shouting and shouting in GERB.]] I must be a resident of Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u112	Come on, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Don't go into lines with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u114	How could he not be tried? In 1992, there was a verdict!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u115	Colleagues, we're going to the next point in our weekly program: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue under Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I recall that in the plenary sitting on February 18th... [[Strong noise in the hall. Personal disputes between the MPs Georgi Kadiev and Semir Abu Melih.]] Guys, please don't fight! We have heard the reports of the committees to which the bill was allocated. Mr. Rumen Gechev, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, Mr. Kiril Tsochev, Mr. Velizar Enchev, Mr. Radan Kanev, participated in the debates so far. Before I recall that, according to our decision, the microphones of the National Television and the microphones of the National Radio should be included under the decision voted earlier today on the direct broadcasting of the debates and the vote on this point. I remind the parliamentary groups the remaining time they have: the parliamentary group of GERB There's been a request from Mr. Mestan so far. Do other MPs wish to participate? Please make the requests on a regular basis. I'll write them down. He has the word, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech is on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group on the bill that we are about to ratify. I will focus on the extrafiscal dimensions of the Treaty. We are guided by the awareness that today the Forty-third National Assembly will not make a trivial decision. He will decide on the biggest debt the country has issued in the last 30 years! And since this debt will not be repaid within the terms of this cabinet's mandate, the first extrafiscical consideration that I would like to give firmly is that this is a clear reason for the cabinet not to consider the debt as a matter of exclusive competence.. its and the power konncture, which is behind today's government as a parliamentary majority. This problem must be considered as state-owned. The first necessary condition is the decision of the Forty-third National Assembly to be informed! Excuse me, but I don't think you've created the prerequisites for us to make an informed decision today. We can argue politically about the need for debt, we can argue about the parameters of debt in its second element The deficit forecast, the deficit planning, is a political problem that we do not need to agree on. We here, for example, believe that it suits you not to plan large amounts of deficit because you came with a promise of reforms, and reforms and deficits are frank antonyms. They're not buying it! But according to the first element of debt, we have no right to argue, ladies and gentlemen ministers, because how many old debts we will repay during the 3-year period should be an indisputable fact. However, what do we observe minutes before the debate starts, including this morning in the couloirs of the forty-third parliament? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the differences are at times of 6 billion. lv. up to 12 billion. lv.! There's a discrepancy in the assessments of leading experts. I will not quote names that claim that in the most frivolous reading of the facts, what we owe as an obligation, as payment for previous debts, is almost 8 billion. Our experts from the parliamentary group say that we can compromise on values just over 9 billion. In the project we read completely different values.. 12 billion. This does not honor the Bulgarian state, outside we look like a broken yard. I declare responsible: the cabinet made a mistake because it refused dialogue with the opposition in the Forty-third National Assembly. Why didn't you seek dialogue with opposition parties? Because you have considered this decision as a matter of your exclusive competence and responsibility. However, there is no way to agree to this, because you will not repay this debt. For nearly 30 years, it will be related to maybe five-six or ten governments. It is therefore not too late to make an effort to replace the wrong approach with the only possible approach for such strategic solutions. This is the approach of seeking agreement between government and opposition. The good environment for such a decision is the voice of consent, not the noise of the Vuvuzels that we hear around the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] If the voice of consent is impossible, then you could at least ensure the silence of the constructive opposition, because, I will remind you, through In 2012, when you issued nearly 2 billion, we may not have supported you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, but you did not hear a single speech from the DPS Parliamentary Group. Do you know why? I said I'd talk about the extrafiscal dimensions of the Decision Project. In fact, these extrafiscal dimensions have a direct fiscal significance. They also have a direct bearing on the price of debt. It is very important that the institutions from which we will withdraw this debt be sure that there is political agreement in Bulgaria. This has a direct bearing on the price. Make sure there's continuity. Such decisions should be taken by consensus. If consensus is not possible, it should be taken at least by a constitutional majority. Is it possible to agree on this bill? I say yes! But you have made this agreement impossible in today's sitting. Most likely, the draft decision will pass.. Whether with five to ten to fifteen votes difference, it does not matter. However, this is not how we understand the purpose of the debates today. Madam President, we're going to offer you something extremely responsible. I suggest two options. First, the point to consider tomorrow, Thursday, as the first, to give a chance of serious consultation with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, in which leaders and opposition parties, accompanied by experts in finance and economics, so that we do not argue about the first element at least, how many old obligations we will return in the next period. Those doubts should be dropped. From there, this is now a matter of the nature of your management. You may make some or other commitments to the deficit ceilings in view of your election commitments. If this happens and if we have indisputable numbers on the table, it is possible to achieve the necessary broad consent. I think there are topics on which it is good to overcome both our management and opposition reflexes for the sake of public interest. Who wants to understand this constructive proposal? I'm ready to take any interpretations. If we are not heard, we will get into the debate on the ground. Perhaps we will ask the Finance Minister: does he see any difference in the nature and purpose of the debt issued by the previous cabinet with Minister Chobanov of a billion and the nature and purpose of these 16 billion, which we will eventually issue today with this act of ratification? The answer is no! Only this one billion was vetoed. We do not need to enter into those that, according to this debt, by the same logic, we should have 16 times more reasons to expect a veto from the Head of State. However, all this can be saved as debates if we go along the path of dialogue. Mr. Minister of Finance, it's not too late. I am finishing Madam President by repeating the options of a possible outcome: either ending the debates and consulting with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance with the participation of the opposition in order to have the correct parameters of the debt; all of us to be convinced that this is inevitable, that this is only possible, that there are no hidden buffers to ensure the comfort of management until the presidential elections, or at your discretion to ask today for a sufficiently long rest during which to hold these consultations and, if so urgently, to continue the debate until the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u117	Mr Mestan, as procedural opportunities, there is no way to put an end to the debate because it is about a bill at first reading, but it is possible to postpone the debate, postpone the vote. Do you make a request for a break on behalf of a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u118	Madam President, I'm not making a request for a break right now. I told you to choose one of the options. We don't want to... [[Heckling]] Member of the Commission. - Madam President, for us, the right decision is to postpone the debates and votes for tomorrow as the first point and sufficient time for serious consultations. This is our procedural proposal. If it is not acceptable, you could, on your own initiative, refer to an alternative option that I have also indicated. My procedure is only the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u119	Colleagues, at the beginning of the plenary session, I announced that today's holiday is at 11.30 am. An exhibition in the National Assembly is about to be opened. The regular rest of the National Assembly will be at 11:30. As regards the proposal received by Mr. Mestan on the grounds of art. 52, para. 2, p. 4 schedule the debate by procedure. Is there a reverse opinion of Mr. Mestan's proposal to postpone the debate? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u120	Madam President, I'm making a counterproposal. Once a week wasn't enough to convince us the government why they were borrowing 27 billion. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] With interest, it doesn't make any sense to postpone it until tomorrow. It's like I saw a remake here last week, only instead of Mr. Valeri Simeonov, it was Lutvi Mestan. Do you two have an agreement...?! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] There's no need to delay. I am making a reverse suggestion that the issue should not be postponed and that a decision should be taken today. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Honourable Members of the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, we have a vote coming up. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] The minister as an attitude to the procedure we are listening to you, Mr. Goranov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Goranov asked for the word in substance. It is right for me, firstly, to allow the procedural proposal to be voted on, as it is subject to the vote immediately after we have heard the opposite opinion. [[DPS lines.]] Mr. Goranov, if you have a procedure... [[Replica by Minister Vladislav Goranov.]] You don't. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote Mr. Mestan's proposal to postpone the debate. [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] There is a note that I did not articulate the second part of the proposal and that the debate was postponed for consultation. [[DPS lines.]] Vote 216 MPs: 59 against 127, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Goranov, the Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My attitude under Mr. Mestan's procedure is as follows: there is no reason why we should not lead the debate in this Chamber, but to bring it to the office of the President of the National Assembly or other offices. The plenary hall is the place where the Bulgarian society clears up all the important issues for the government. I thank you for trying to get things back to normal. I will try as humbly as possible to explain what the debate is about today. On 27 July 2013 on the occasion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2013, the People's Representative of the Forty-second National Assembly Vladislav Ivanov Goranov made the following statement: "Dear colleagues, I am not opposed to the commitment of the debt and the commitment of debt is not a topic of political debate. You want to increase the expenditure portion of the budget, thereby increasing the deficit, hence the commitment to assume additional debts. Then I made a vague forecast, and I admit that I was not able to correctly predict that if the adoption of deficits after 2009 continues at the same rate, it is very possible to talk not about the then 5 billion, but about 15 billion. The failure of fiscal planning in The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Bulgarian leva. This confused the forecasts of MP Goranov from 2013 and the need for debt increased. Now I will try to take the blame from the lack of information and tell the sovereign, in your face, why it is necessary an agreement with partner banks to help us in the next few years to create a possible solution for Bulgaria, unlike other peoples, to be a predictable partner, to be able to pay its debts and bills. Two thousand and fourteen years in terms of technical financial debate was unsuccessful. Then, in 2014 we have structured the debate on the failure of our banking system in a way in which we are currently trying to structure the debate on the financing of debt and the excess of expenditure over revenue. Then we failed as a society, showed leadership weakness and paid the highest possible price. Then we showed our society that it was not ruled. We made choices. Politically unconsisting but nationally responsible parties were found to take responsibility for the government's governance, and on 7 November we formed a government with your votes. A few days after November 7th, we had to give the money back to the people. The money of the people who had a bad chance of putting it into a failed commercial bank. On December 4th, without much noise and without political passions, the state began the people felt that the state was in place and received their money. Three and a half billion since then we have given Bulgarian citizens who have had a bad chance to invest their own money in a poorly managed bank. However, this money did not come along with the new government. These funds were borrowed because the Bulgarian society has been living on loan since 2009, every consecutive year. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Two thousand and twelve years before Prime Minister Boyko Borisov resigned at the beginning of 2013, the excess of expenditure over revenue was reduced to negligible for financial statistics values of less than half a percent, but it was still negative. In the coming years, we could not accept as a society the value of spending as much as we make, so I see no reason not to accept as a value to pay our bills, and when we spend more than we make, it happens or when we sell our property, and it was sold much earlier during the mass and subsequent privatisation and for Boyko Borisov's government in its second edition remained to pay the bill. On 1 January 2015, the Bulgarian society had a fiscal reserve of 9 billion. 170,4 million. What, though, colleagues, independent economists owe the public? They owe the story, which, not only the finance minister, but every person who wants to form a public opinion in this country must tell the whole truth, not manipulative and not speculative. All truth presented as financial statistics on 1 January 2015. This is not a sociological or political problem. The fiscal reserve on 1 January 2015 has the following indicators that participate in the congregation in order to reach 9 billion. 170,4 million. Financial resources of the fiscal deposit reserve total 8 billion. 117 million, including state budget funds "6 billion." The Commission Five hundred thousand. On the other hand, of course, is the State Fund for guaranteeing the sustainability of the state pension system, the Silver Fund (Silver Fund) 2 billion. 455.4 million, almost 2 and a half billion funds, which the government of the triple coalition with Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski appropriately and skillfully accepted as a legislative solution, and since then the Silver Fund has accumulated funds to help the state pension system at a time when the imbalances in it become such that the tax burden must be increased in order to be able at some point to finance the pensions. The Silver Fund has $2 billion. 445 million. They are in a special deposit account, separate from the other accounts in which the government stores the resource, and not only as payment technology, but also the legislative Bulgarian government cannot operate with this resource. The National Insurance Institute, including the Teacher's Pension Fund and the Workers' Claims Guarantee Fund, is the next indicator that participates in the fiscal reserve on 1 January 2015. According to statistics of the Bulgarian National Bank then there were 18.8 million in these accounts. There were 32.9 million in the National Health Insurance Fund's transit accounts. In other autonomous budgets, I can name them all, there were 434.4 million. The accounts for EU funds, respectively in the Public Finance Act adopted at the beginning of 2013, in force from 1 January 2014, shall keep the funds we receive from the European funds and the corresponding national co-financing shall be presented as a transfer from the central budget of those accounts in accordance with European regulations. At that point in the accounts of which we manage the European funds, there were 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, including the accounts of the National Fund, where all European Funds are....................................... the Social Fund, the Cohesion 357,5 million. In the State Fund, where the accounts of the Agricultural Fund are, there are 31.3 million. The deposits funds at the Bulgarian National Bank and the commercial banks at the same time are the same amount. 117 million, including the Bulgarian National Bank, are held at 6 billion. On 1 January 2015, there was a public resource of 1 billion in commercial banks as well. 400 million. A nuance that can avoid some of the MPs who are not tempted by the economic theme, and this is justified for them, is that by point 41 of the Additional provisions of the Public Finance Act, it is determined that the fiscal reserve statistics should include the claims from the European Union which arise as a result of advance programmes financed by the Bulgarian government co-financed by the European funds which have not yet entered into the accounts of the European Union under the Bulgarian budget. As of 1 January 2015, the European Union's claims, which, notice, are not available funds and there is no way for the Bulgarian government to order with them and use them as a liquid resource... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] Colleagues on the left, there's no one to tell you this way. Listen to the finance minister so you can find out what the debate is about. At that time, the European Union's claims were 1 billion. 51 million in the National Fund and 2.2 million in the paying account of the State Fund. The sum of available and non-available money, claims plus deposits on accounts as at 1 January 2015 is 9 billion. One hundred and fifty-seventy-four million, a number no one is arguing over. On 1 January 2015, the sum of the individual indicators in the fiscal reserve was this............................................................................................. On 1 January 2015, however, we are also obliged to make the following clarification after I told the structure of the fiscal reserve something that is rarely told in detail, but this is the room that needs to know the numbers....we should also do arithmetic with how much real money the government has the right to rule by law. Of these available funds, 8 billion. 117 million because we agreed that claims from the European Union are a good topic, but they cannot be spent because no money is available and they have not come from these 8 billion. 117 million should start removing funds that form the fiscal reserve from the statistical point of view, but in terms of legislative and economic appropriateness cannot be spent by the Bulgarian government or at least not without legislative changes. In the middle of last year, showing leadership infirmity, Bulgarian society decided to support a Bulgarian commercial bank, which has no capital problem. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Bulgarian society is governed by the Bulgarian government. If you come up with another form of government, let's debate it, it requires a constitutional majority. Then it was decided to support a commercial bank, which had no capital problem, but was put under pressure by the depositors in it, who were worried about the bad way of holding a debate in the Bulgarian political class as of the summer of 2014. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Maya, I'll finish with you at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u123	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u124	At the time, the Finance Minister of Bulgaria had no other option and another solution. We supported him at the time that the only possible and correct solution is to quickly find liquidity with which to support this bank, which has a liquidity problem, because Bulgarian commercial banks are not enemies of the Bulgarian society, they are the infrastructure through which the Bulgarian society saves and realises income. When Bulgarian commercial banks fail, Bulgarian society fails because in Bulgarian commercial banks the ownership of their owners is between 8 and 12%, the remaining between 92 and 88% are owned by the depositors, they are not owned by the owners of the capital of these commercial banks, which is between 8 and 12%. These are basically international standards as well. Then we borrowed a billion. 200 million. Bulgarian leva and we deposited them in the bank under liquid pressure to preserve the interest of Bulgarian citizens. At the time, the Bulgarian Finance Minister acted adequately. He'd heard by his own address all sorts of things, but it was the only possible solution then. The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 did not allow the assumption of extraordinary debt for liquidity support of the banking system, because each year with the annual Law on the State Budget the amount of debts that can be borne was fixed long before the fiscal year began. If in the course of the fiscal year there were certain failures and there is no active parliament and there is no political will to say things with their real names, the Bulgarian Finance Minister, whoever he is, is tied with his hands. The Bulgarian finance minister then took a 6-month short-term loan, which was due to mature in 2014. Otherwise he would have violated the will of the MPs for the amount of government debt for 2014. He took a short-term 6-month loan which was due to mature in the end of 2014, and deposited legally, according to the rules... not both in 2008 secretly, secret and wrong in violation of the State aid law and in violation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Bulgarian Finance Minister in 2014 did so by law and not as in 2008, and gave liquid support to a Bulgarian commercial bank, as he had to do and was obliged to do. Then he replaced the lack of the entire political guild with this decision. That 1 billion. 200 million. Bulgarian BGN helped one of the biggest Bulgarian commercial banks with one of the most developed branch networks to continue to perform their functions. That 1 billion. 200 million. lv. they're part of the resource we're talking about. In this commercial bank on 1 January there are 800 million government funds as a deposit and they enter into the fiscal reserve statistics. That's where they belong in terms of methodology, in terms of statistics. This bank probably does not feel the comfort of paying the high interest rates of the Bulgarian government, probably its resource is expensive. But better, given the immatureness that we show as a society in terms of the subject, Banki. [[BSP LB lines]] , to stand in this commercial bank until the volatility of the markets and the demagogy of politicians passes. [[Relations of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Of this 8 billion 117 million in this Bulgarian commercial bank there is a government deposit that is not wise to immediately spoil. So this amount has to be reduced by that 800 million. They are not available to the government because it is more appropriate to stay on deposit there and not be used. In the same 8 billion. 117 million, ladies and gentlemen, there is 1 billion. 450 million funds that have been piling up there for many years in connection with the fact that Bulgaria has nuclear facilities for chance. However, they, in accordance with world standards, require the accumulation of a resource to be used to manage radioactive waste, there is such a fund, the Radioactive Waste Fund and the management of the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. Those funds may temporarily be used within days, weeks or months for ongoing funding. But they have to stay available because they have another purpose. In this account, I repeat, are also the funds of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system, the so-called Silver Fund. It's $2 billion. 445 million are deposits in the Bulgarian National Bank with low profitability. I would like to remind you that liquidity and the situation on European markets is currently such that five-year German securities are on negative yield. If you want to buy five-year German securities, you will not receive interest from the German government. It turns out you have to pay the German government if you want to have five-year debt securities. [[Reply of MP Krasimir Yankov.]] By making the bill effective and subtracting from the available 8 billion. 117 million on 1 January 2015 all target funds in the fiscal reserve will turn out that on 1 January 2015 the government and the Bulgarian society had available on accounts 3 billion. 422 million untargeted funds. But what happens in the first days of January? There's maturity, colleagues, and they're no secret to anyone. These maturitys have been known since 2002, when the debt accumulated in the 1980s by your fathers was restructuring.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u125	And yours?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u126	And from our fathers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u127	And mothers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u128	And from our fathers, from our society. Even then, we've lived on borrowed property. And then we lived on borrowed property. [[BSP LB.]] Don't start the debate if you want to lead it. [[Laughter and lines from BSP LB.]] On 1 January 2015, it was 3 billion. 422 million. What is the status of the fiscal reserve on 1 February 2015? On 1 February 2015, following the maturity of major debts in January 2015! On 1 January 2015, the fiscal reserve has 7 billion. 129.5 million, of which available funds in accounts 5 billion. 808 million. Available funds on accounts! At this point, since we wanted to be fair to farmers and even within January, although our obligation is up to the middle of the year, we paid them the area payments. At this point, our claims from the European Union are no longer 1 billion. 53 million, and it's already 1 billion. 321,3 million. This amount of 1 billion. 321 million, along with 5 billion. Eight hundred and eight hundred and eighty million form the fiscal reserve, seven billion. 129,5 million. However, the available cash and accounts at this time, at 1 February or 31 January, it does not matter, are 5 billion. $808.2 million. From these, colleagues, we must again remove the Silver Fund, which is 2 billion. 445 million. Once again, we must take into account that nuclear funds can only be used in the short term within weeks or months, but they cannot serve as a sustainable resource to finance government spending. 450 million! On 1 February, I continue to believe that we should not rush to spoil the government's deposits in this bank. At this time, the available resource of the Bulgarian government, with which it can finance its current costs, is 1 billion. 113.2 million away from that 7 billion. 129,5 million, which independent economists, and they are in debt to society because they do not tell correctly and do not properly interpret the indicators, but should be better even than the finance minister, because they only deal with interpretations, not 7 billion, colleagues, but a billion. As of 19 February 2015, the government's funds available in the fiscal reserve without the European Union's claims are 5 billion. $242.9 million. On 19 February 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/994 Why do I say February 19th? I didn't choose it to lend myself to the authority of the Apostle. On that date I made the calculation and used them for the purposes of presenting to the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. After 5 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. available funds remove the target, legally blocked elements of the fiscal reserve, the operational government as of February 19th has 537.9 million. It's not your job to keep an account. I'm telling you about those who are interested. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the A country with 31 billion budget turns out to be on February 19th with half a billion available resources! This is a problem, a problem we knew about at the end of last year. Even then, in the motives of the law that we have introduced, with the request to you to allow us to conclude a bridge loan with banks, and then move to issue bonds on the international markets, the reasons in the mandate letter, which is found in the Bulgarian National Assembly, we have recorded what will happen in February 2015. This is the first time we've had negotiations. The information is available in the Ministry of Finance. Maybe it's not just the Attorney General who wants the D.A. to come and check on her. Just don't go back any further, because that might be a problem. For the period from 7 November ahead, however, every Bulgarian prosecutor can check what happened at the Ministry of Finance only not to go back further. We have an invitation to 19 commercial banks, which we have asked to give us bridge financing and offer their offers because we knew we had to return the money from CCB to the Bulgarian citizens as quickly as possible. The best conditions were those four banks with which we then concluded a bridge financing agreement of a billion and a half euros. This debt matured six months after it was taken because it was targeted at a Multiannual Debt Management Programme that none of you suspected existed. At least that's what some MPs said to the public and on the air. They mature six months after their claim because they are a bridge loan under certain conditions. Therefore, in May 2015 the Bulgarian society must repay its bridge loan of a billion and a half euros, taken to pay the account of someone from KTB. The bill is paid, but we have to pay back a billion and a half euros, and on February 19 we have only half a billion levs. It's not dramatic. Markets trust us. We make things transparent, predictable and sustainable. But you have decided that this is the most appropriate topic for debate. Yes, perhaps the opposition has something to avenge the current government, and that is its role. But don't let that be your theme! Let's talk about the deficit. Let us talk that while the Bulgarian budget has a deficit, there will also be debt. Let this be the debate in our society. And I don't want there to be a deficit. Some colleagues say: "Deficit is a bad thing, it must be nullified. "I agree, I will offer you measures, but I do not know if you will like them. In this debate, we're exhibiting strange schizophrenia. When we talk about the revenue side of the budget, we spare the business. When we talk about spending part of the budget, we make policy. When we talk about the deficit, Goranov is bad! Goranov is nobody! Goranov is nobody, he is the current finance minister, tomorrow is someone else. Deficit's still on! Colleagues, if you think we should spend the Silver Fund; if you think we should spend BNB's currency reserves because on the left and such ideas have come; if you think we should spend the funds accumulated to manage nuclear power; we can! In this room, such a decision can be made. However, if this is not what we want, fellow Members, we must prepare ourselves that over the next three years we have 12 billion we have spent previously. We have all spent it together, each at a different stage, depending on his political destiny, as a witness, in opposition; as an instigator, in coalition; or as a perpetrator, in the government, each and every one of us. These 12 billion have already been spent before 1 January 2015. We have to get them back, they are not to the Bulgarian society, but are borrowed and spent. Luckily, if we want to use the Shop terminology, it is not important for us to feel good, it is important for others to feel bad. There's worse than us. There's worse than us with hundreds of billions of debt. In their parliament, however, the debate is not structured in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u129	There's no parliament there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u130	In their parliament, debate is different. Colleagues, we must return that 12 billion and prepare ourselves to return it! Imagine if we don't have an international brokerage agreement with commercial banks, rangers to help us issue on the international markets, what are the alternatives of the government. If we do not have such an agreement and we decide that GERB is guilty because together with its partners she has tried to take responsibility for the management and to bear the positives and negatives for this, because management always has negatives; and we decide that we do not want to bear the political price for this; to be blamed; Maya to put me on portrait, what remains of the Bulgarian society?! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You'll have a chance, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u131	Mr. Goranov, I'm leaving the hall, aren't you...! [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u132	And that's an option, but let's do our job. [[crowd cheering and laughing loudly.]] Yes, colleagues, the 12 billion is not ours, we have to get it back! The point is that we voted 2.5 billion for 2015 with the votes of the majority. lv. over-cost, over-cost over-income, 2.5 billion, which will increase this account, that has already been decided. If you want, we can solve it. If you oblige the Finance Minister to propose an amendment to the State Budget Act for 2015 to turn it into a balanced one, I will propose it. The Constitutional territory of the executive to propose the budget will be kept as a commitment and we will offer you a balanced budget. Then we don't talk about $16 billion, we talk about $18 billion, and we have to get our money back. This accumulation of maturity until 2017 is the fault even of Borisov's first government. The 2012 issue might not have been 5 years old, could have been longer. But it was what it was. We have 12 billion to return by 31 January 2017 and no one can challenge them! Colleagues, from now on, let's lead the debate on the top. [[Heckling]] Let's have a debate on the deficit and should there be a deficit. If you want, we may not have a deficit. However, society expects us to do certain tasks. We can do them without deficit. But that's where the left-hand doctrine is going to go down badly. The left doctrine will crash heavily if the Bulgarian budget does not have a deficit. For 2015, we have already decided that we will have 2.5 billion. lv. over-spending. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. will burden the country's debt burden, which is already 12.5 billion by 2017, which we have to return. The smallest amount we need to prepare for is 14,5 billion. lv. We can solve for 2.5 billion. lv. of them, but by no means can we solve the 12 billion we have already spent. For 2016 and 2017 we have again proposed a gradual reduction in the spending, but the Bulgarian budget is still planned to be on deficit. I don't agree with that. I want there to be no deficit. The farmer's minister in the government report can't brag that we're handing out $35 million to pickpockets. BGN, and the finance minister boasting that he has offered 16 billion debt is not fair! Why does the finance minister always have to be bad?! It has a relatively small budget to finance the expenditures of the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Administration, which have the main function of collecting revenue to finance government expenditure managed not by the Finance Minister, colleagues, but by individual ministers who usually boast about Christmas supplements, Easter supplements, agricultural subsidies, higher education development, secondary education, health care. This is not a sphere of expression of the finance minister. He can only perform on the subject of duty. And you're giving me a wonderful opportunity to do it. We've been having this debate for 20 days! And I was sure it would change very little. Thanks to common sense, we're having this debate. We didn't structure it properly, it's the financial minister's fault. But when, colleagues, any party allowed itself from the Bulgarian parliamentary tribune to lead the debate in this way? Open the transcripts from 2012, 2013 and 2014, read the speeches of the government and the opposition. Have we criticized you and Menda Stoyanova? We've criticized you not because you're taking debt, but because you're increasing costs, that you're planning wrong and that this leads to a deficit. That's why we criticized you for not managing the revenue administrations well, changing the bosses every two months, tearing down the yard and the revenue didn't come. That's why we criticized you not for taking the debt. We were saying that if you don't do your job to collect the proceeds and if you don't plan properly, there will be a deficit! We didn't criticize you for your debt, he's not the reason it's a consequence. Duty is not a reason, colleagues, duty is a consequence! Deficit is not a reason, it is a consequence, it is an excess of expenditure over revenue! Let us not spend, or if we do not want to structure the state's participation in the redistribution of goods, enough boasting that our taxes are low. Let us raise them and balance this account. I don't want to raise taxes. It's not fair. It's not right until we've done our job before we've collected our income. By collecting our revenues and seeing how many they can be, and they can be much more than what we plan in the Bulgarian budget; by collecting our revenues, we will see that the Bulgarian society is also a post-communist society that was 100% dependent on the state 25 years ago. 25 years later, we make him count on 35% of it. We can't get him used to this society from one extreme to the other. However, consciously over the years, each of you who has been in this Chamber has sworn in the spending area and has claimed that it is very correct, earns economic advantages for Bulgaria to be of low redistribution burden, low debt. When did the taxes go down? During the Triple Coalition. We commendfully maintain this policy, we like it. We from GERB do not want to increase taxes, we do not want to be touched and in our Political Program it says that the existing direct taxes should not be affected in any direction. But there's a deficit, the money's not enough. With this tax system, that's what we collect. We can gather even more.. we will make efforts with your help to adjust the legislation and convince the Bulgarian business that policy is being made through the spending part of the budget and not through the revenue. And let no one be tempted in the Bulgarian society, think that the state with a light hand will not collect its own and leave it to someone who will be tempted to shop for politicians, will be tempted, without appearing in elections, to be a factor in society and to form a public opinion. Policy must be made through the spending part of the budget, not through the revenue. But there's a deficit, the money's not enough. This deficit must be financed. And if we don't want the whole world to laugh at us, we have to pay our bills. There was an attempt by a government to quickly repay all its debt and reduce it. Nobody wanted him back so fast. They returned a billion and a half dollars, left the state penniless with 100 million reserves. That was understood by everyone very quickly. One previous to this government, but from the same political hue, it allowed itself to declare a moratorium on payments, the consequences were disastrous. If in May we do not repay the 3 billion bridge loan. BGN, the contract that you authorised me to conclude, provides for a further six months extension, of course, under far less favourable conditions. But October, not May, a billion and a half euros, taken on a bridge to return the money from KTB to the people, we have to get it back to these banks, so we have agreed. With your consent and ratification and without this pointless debate, which was then held. In October, however, we still have to pay back a billion and a half euros. 12 billion by the end of 2017 The money they've already spent has to come back. [[BSP LB.]] But until then, we have to have a strategy on how we're gonna manage... [[Radio, noise and lines between PG of BPS LB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u133	Colleagues, please remain silent. Halftime break in 45 minutes. There's still three minutes left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u134	Colleagues, you've been blaming me for not explaining to you now you're blaming me for explaining to you. Be patient. These guys out there, buy them a sandwich. We have time to do our job. [[Applause from GERB.]] So these excesses over 12 billion we can debate here today, if you like. But for the 12 billion I am asking you today to make a decision...... will we enter into an agreement that will enable the Bulgarian government to manage the debt so that it can pay its bills or will you leave the Bulgarian government without tools to do so? And if that's your answer, we have an answer. But the answer, my fellow Members, I kept it in the end so that my esteemed, truly respected Mrs. Maya Manolova couldn't answer... [[Voices from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] Mrs. Manolova, I don't call you Maya so you don't think I'm making fun of you. We can't print money. You're the only one who can print it. [[Applause and laughter by GERB.]] It's not working! But if we can print money and we can't, that's the only alternative to today's decision. If I've offended anyone, please forgive me. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u135	A personal explanation of Mrs. Manolova, then a holiday, colleagues. Let's hear the personal explanation for two minutes. You have the floor, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u136	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Dear Mr. Goranov, this 45-minute speech was obviously your rehearsal for a future academic career. And that's right, because your political career isn't going to end well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u137	And how did that affect you personally, Mrs. Manolova? You have a personal explanation procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u138	Because you're not an honest finance minister. If you were an honest finance minister, you wouldn't be bothering the hall with our grandparents, but you would admit that in 2017 we would have to refinance the debt your beloved chief Djankov took last year. You would admit, which is also visible on your ministry's website, that over the next three years we have to pay under 8 billion external debt!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u139	Yeah, I did.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u140	You would admit that with this huge credit you intend to finance a deficit and if Prime Minister Boyko Borisov wants a deficit, and you are against it, then do well to resign. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what decent finance ministers do. And as for printing money, yes, you can't print money. You can print debt. And you can print the ballots we've seen! [[Lowered noise, lines and calls.]] And for those of the ministers and of the MPs who suffer that their face is not on this note, I will say calmly on the reverse side we will print a disgraceful list on which the names of each one of you who has supported this shameful debt will appear.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u141	You won't have enough space, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u142	And then you will explain yourself another 30 years ahead to the Bulgarian citizens why you turned them into debt slaves - you, the MPs of GERB and the associated parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u143	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u144	This note will enter every Bulgarian home with your names. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u145	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u146	Watch your vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u147	Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u148	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats, the meeting continues. Before the break, Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski, Mr. Valeri Simeonov and Mrs. Miglena Alexandrova made a statement. In this order, I do not see Mr. Zelenogorski in the Chamber. Procedure before that. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u149	Madam President, I propose a roll call because I see here a design, a game. Mr. Finance Minister with his touching confession of 45 minutes was intended to kill the time, to come the break, during which time the room to be diluted and, as we can see, are now much less than the 216 that were registered. So let's do a roll call check and see why the ruling GERB Party and its satellites are thinning the room in such a way that it becomes convenient to vote on the debt. Please count the MPs. Today is a very important day and let's count. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u150	Mr. Siderov, a request for a name check is made on the occasion of an upcoming vote. I will respect your proposal, and before the vote, I will do a roll call check. We are now continuing the debate. Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski, I don't see him in the hall. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has thoroughly examined the proposed Bill for ratification of a loan of 8 billion. EUR, about 16 billion. During the discussion of the Bill in a meeting of the group were heard prominent economists, as well as the Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, for which I thank them. The undisputed need to negotiate a loan to repay old debts for the period 2008 In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. There is also no doubt about the need to cover the budget deficit for the above period. After a thorough discussion and in-depth analysis, however, the following questions arose: First, is there a reserve in the forecasting of the due contributions for the repayment of this debt? Secondly, is the budget deficit forecast reliable for the future period? And thirdly, what are the public attitudes and expectations associated with the government's actions in this direction? On the first two questions we received a relatively convincing justification, but on the third question we found a complete discrepancy between intentions and expectations with reality. The purpose and task of every government is to improve living conditions and achieve a high degree of unity and confidence in society. In this case, the attempt to hasten a vote in the National Assembly, without the necessary explanatory campaign and discussion, caused a wide range of mixed opinions, overwhelmingly negative. The bill in question was brought to the National Assembly two days before it was examined in plenary. Thus, a financially necessary operation, determined by the need to take credit at a low interest rate, has become a target for an accusation of impure thought and an attempt to mislead the supporting parliamentary forces management programme. The discussion coincides with the unconvincing and, in our view, untimely action for the so-called "sanding of panel housings" with money from the state budget. After the hastily voting on the changes in pension insurance and the gap with the suspension of 38 trains from the BDZ timetable, the bill tabled without the necessary discussions and clarification created the impression of something unclean that must be pushed into the confusion, and this thing in the public mind was the taking of 16 billion new ones, I stress, a new debt that will pay our grandchildren too. For this reason, the Patriotic Front a week ago requested a postponement of the vote. Unfortunately, at present, Bulgarian taxpayers are not convinced of the transparency of the government's intentions, the very opposite in the discussions and discussions over the past week citizens and sympathizers of the Patriotic Front have stated their strong disapproval for the withdrawal of the loan in question, raising questions that were difficult to answer. Here are some of them: Firstly, why was the loan not consulted during the negotiations prior to the establishment of the government and not included in the Programme for sound government management? Secondly, why continue the practice of uncritical adoption of an annual budget deficit around the three percent and not looking for a way to increase revenue? According to official data, the state is losing billions of dollars in the smuggling of liquid fuels, cigarettes, alcohol and other goods. In January only, as a result of massive inspections of the storage of liquid fuel producers, about 70 million were received in the budget. lv. The lack of any measuring instruments of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas was found at both the entrance and the exit and even less related to the National Revenue Agency. According to data from the tobacco manufacturing industry Bulgaria lost 500 million. lv. a quarter of cigarette smuggling and unpaid taxes and excise duties. Even if we assume that this figure is higher, that means we're losing about a billion a year if we assume it's right in half. Thirdly, why there is no action to punish those responsible for the crisis in KTB, who have damaged the state budget by 3.4 billion. BGN, as well as the return of that money to the budget? Fourth, will the guilty previous governments and officials be held accountable for the burdening of taxpayers' internal and external debts? Fifth, when will they be brought to trial and those responsible for destroying energy that is damaging consumers today, and the state budget with hundreds of millions? Sixth, why is there no action to stimulate the small business, the family business and could not part of the loan in question ease the tax burden and encourage production? To these and many other questions for the first three months of government management, unfortunately, we cannot answer and we are talking to our constituents. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has decided not to support the Draft and calls on the ruling coalition to pay serious attention to the achievement of public support and political agreement on all important issues for the Bulgarian people, because this is the only way towards successful governance, while the sharpening of political opposition leads only to periodic change of governments, mistrust of government, disgust of politicians, apathy and despair, and from that, as you know, only benefit the DPS and the enemies of Bulgaria. The patriotic front retains its consistent and nationally responsible position to support the stable governance programme agreed and signed before the establishment of the government, because political stability is the most important condition necessary for achieving national unity and the salvation of Bulgaria. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u152	Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that I fully share the arguments and reasonings of Mr. Simeonov, set out in his speech on behalf of the group. However, what I absolutely do not share is the political conclusion that follows from these arguments. There is no doubt, and believe me, as well as to vote today, as well as to end this vote, in anyone or in almost no one in this House there is no longer any doubt about the usefulness and, to a large extent, the need of the measures proposed by Minister Goranov. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] The large deficit of his proposal, the lack of discussion, the hasty introduction to parliament, the lack of dialogue in the majority, and as Mr. Mestan rightly pointed out in the opposition, as we are talking about a 30-year horizon, has been delayed, including the extremely sincere and precise speech of the finance minister today, and the consultations held all week. Without a doubt Bulgaria needs such a debt instrument, it needs to issue debt both to refinancing existing liabilities and to finance future deficits [[BSP LB lines]] , in order to ensure stable control. Undoubtedly, the need to finance deficits stems precisely from the reasons that Mr. Simeonov detailed. Here comes the big question? What will these deficits be used for? They can, in order to be useful and to be reduced, be used only to carry out reforms that will reduce them in the future along with all the abuses you have exposed. In this sense, the support and preservation of the parliamentary majority are defined so that this instrument can be useful and not prove harmful and lead to new emissions in future years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u154	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u155	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Dear Mr. Kanev, what was expressed in the form of disagreement is actually a confirmation of what I said. I don't see the point of that line. There's no dissent in it. Only in the first sentence did you say that you disagree with the political conclusions. But that's your right, your group's right. Otherwise, everything else you said was a confirmation. In other words, that wasn't a line, it was an agreement. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u156	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. It seems the content is common, the conclusions are different. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u157	Mr. Chairman, in the previous session before the break we heard the case. Let the Prime Minister come! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Whoever wants the money, come to the gym! Nobody has to go to his office! That's not how you ask for a loan!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u158	Are you suggesting some kind of voting procedure, Mr. Zablyanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u159	Let the Prime Minister come! [[Voices from GERB: "There is no such procedure! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u160	All right, let's take this as a call to the Prime Minister. He will be betrayed and, in view of the reaction, we will let you know. So far, the discussion is continuing. Here's your speech, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers! First of all, I would like to say that I am satisfied with what I heard from Minister Goranov. I hope everyone in this room is much more calm about numbers and the expert section. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] After all, I'm going to continue with a few more numbers. By the way, I have graduated from economics and for 12 years I have been working quite actively in this area. [[Voices from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] Let me tell you what the public debt payments for the period 2015 - 2017 are, because obviously this excites a lot of people here. For 2015, domestic debt payments amount to 2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. BGN, payments on external debt are 4 billion. 967 million or total 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within 995 million. For 2016 the payments are 1 billion. 722 million, 2017 In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is a need for State aid in the form of State aid to be compatible with the 722 million. These are the public debt payments for the period 2015 - 2017 Why did I turn to this reference that everybody else has, and it's on the Treasury website. If you want, I can tell you how this debt has been accumulated because it has been accumulated for decades and because the multitude of political forces that are here in this House have participated in governments that have accumulated these debts. In this sense, it seems very unfair to tell people: "We will do so that we will question the political and financial stability in Bulgaria, we will question the regular repayment of the external and internal debt, which will happen for the first time after the time of the late Lukanov. This will be a very stimulating signal for all voters who will be worried about having enough money for education, for health care, will we pay the pensions. Because if we want to be honest, a huge part of the people who have their expectations for parliament are related precisely to ensuring that these extremely important payments on the social policy of education, teachers, pensions are guaranteed. So the attempt by an expert topic to make a policy has led us here. However, I am pleased that we have extended the deadline, and in practice the vote will be today, because in these few days many people have spoken on the subject and basically society is already beginning to be aware of what this is about. You have been very successful in manipulating society, lying about withdrawing a new debt of 16 billion. BGN, which has nothing to do with the truth, because three quarters of this 16 billion. lv. are refinancing old debts under better conditions, which will make the economy of the Bulgarian treasury. As far as other funds are concerned, these are obviously the deficits for this, for 2016 and 2017. According to us, from the Reformation Block, we must do everything possible to reduce these deficits, that is, the possibility of obtaining a loan of up to 16 billion not being used in its entirety. We of the Reformation bloc will support this ratification. I think this is not a surprise, but we are demanding that the deficit for 2016 and 2017 be reduced significantly. We will insist on reforming all systems because deficits are due to pouring money into unreformed systems. Our attempt to make reforms, reduce and optimize costs and make them more effective is, in fact, the most important part of what lies ahead. I would like to say that if this conversation is only with numbers and only expert ones, after the speech of Mr. Minister, which is a little delayed fact, and he admitted it after these many-hour debates that were held in all configurations, there should be a huge part of those present in this Chamber to vote for ratification. Naturally, this will not happen, because unfortunately there is political meaning here, and in fact the truth is that we are talking about pragmatism, about an action that has happened every year. When you have debts, you have to pay them. If you don't pay your mortgage, they'll take your apartment. And if you encourage us to stop payments on domestic or foreign debt or stop paying pensions, I am not sure that your constituents agree to such a prospect. To conclude, I would like to say that from the Reformation Block, we hope that, apart from reforming, the economy that will be obtained in the absorption of external debt funds will go to school sports. Our children have health problems, our children are obese, our children go to schools where there are no sports halls. We have received the assurance from Minister Goranov that we will do everything we can to really make these savings go in this direction. I'm satisfied with what I've heard from Mr. Simeonov. The patriotic front does not question, despite today's vote, the stability of the majority. So let us do our best to ensure political and financial stability. When we talk about economics, when we talk about investment and promotion of entrepreneurial spirit, this can only happen in a stable political and financial environment. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u162	That was Mr. Zelenogorski's statement. The next speech is from the MP Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u163	Ataka's parliamentary group will vote against this heavy military debt, which the ruling coalition: Borisov "Kostov" "Kuneva" Erdogan, i.e. Korman Ismailov "Simeonov "Karakachanov," imposes on the Bulgarian people. It's twenty-seven billion. Stop lying to people. There are not 16, 27 interest rates. Why don't you count the interest? You're economists, you're experts. Don't fool people, because the truth always comes out. As the truth will come out now about the agreements between GERB and the Patriotic Front, which are pretending to be clean, but we will see how many of them will be in the Chamber. We'll see what they agreed on. Gentlemen of GERB, give him this boy's customs. Since when have I been asking you for these customs, give it to him to calm down at last and you won't have any problems. It's clear there's a deal. A deal has already been made by Mr. Zelenogorski very clearly: I am glad that the Patriotic Front does not question the stability of this government. How he will release the bone so easily and how he will withdraw from the power you have achieved with so much effort, with so much fraud, replacement of the vote and the Bulgarian, Sofia Maidan. Why was the Maydan last year? It was to come to power and invade the head of the Bulgarian people 27 billion. lv. How will you return them? How will Bulgaria return them? What did Bulgaria bet on? What did you bet? When you take a loan, you bet your apartment, right? What did Bulgaria bet on? When suddenly the Bulgarians, who are called, became interesting to foreign banks. They didn't count for anything until now. How did they suddenly get interesting? To this answer in his touching confession of 45 minutes "I congratulate Mr. Goranov for the record he did not answer. When he spoke here, he didn't give any argument why and how to take that money. The fact that there were old obligations means only one thing that you've managed badly. Because you've been in charge for the second time, for the second term. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Admit you're a bad driver. Why do you justify your mismanagement to make it even worse? Why are you declaring yourself unalternative? Why are you explaining to me that new loans need to be taken to fill in the old ones, and then you're going to get newer ones to fill out the new ones? I remember they once accused Todor Zhivkov of leaving Bulgaria with 10 billion. dollar debt. That was a great drama of drama. On the walls of Sofia were dajibau, how scary this is, a bad totalitarian system. The one who was guarding Todor Zhivkov now imposes a triple debt and the public is silent, the media is silent and this is considered normal. So far you've brought the people that now the lie really passes for truth. To pass for stable management one incompetent, one impotent government, which is a coalition between, again: Borisov In short, this is the office of Marcy Reese. Because she was lining up this office. I'm going to call it briefly the Reese Cabinette or else it's very long. [[Replys from "Attacka."]] This loan is a military loan and it was imposed outside. This is evident by all the lack of argument we've seen in the pathetic shuttles that have been going on for weeks from room to room. The finance minister would come out, come in sweaty and flushed, and he couldn't explain what was being negotiated. It is clear what is being asked............................. That's what they're talking about. What else can you negotiate? And that will become clear during the vote. I therefore asked for a roll-call vote to see how many of those who are acting in principle will be in the Chamber. Let's see! I also ask the media to seal this, because every single voice and every single presence will now be very important. The game with the quorum and the game with lack of people in the hall is an old game of GERB. She's about to be lost. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] That's why Goranov spent 45 minutes. He killed parliamentary time to get the break so he could talk to him. The break lasted 20 minutes, it was actually 50 minutes, in violation of the regulations. Why? Because the bargains continued. And now we'll see who made the deal. That'll make sense. It's clear now. The point is that what you claim to be a stable government is, in fact, an impossible, incompetent, hopeless government. We have not heard a single word about how the standard of Bulgarians will be raised, how the life of the Bulgarians will increase its income, what will work in Bulgaria. No, there's no word. On this there is absolute agreement, cynical agreement between reformers, patriots, ABB and GERB the ruling party. Absolute agreement that Bulgaria will not develop economically. All important projects to be frozen, everything that leads to development to be terminated and we to continue to be a colonised country, not from the third, but from the fourth world. You agree with all of this unanimously, touchingly and bulgarianly, because what you are doing right now is a burying of Bulgaria. We're getting into a heavy military loan. That money was imposed on us outside to get it to buy the Americans' old technique with it. Why? Because they made us a front country, and that's what we're gonna find out tomorrow. Then I don't know where you'll be hiding. Perhaps like Vassil Radoslavov you will have to run abroad because in 1914 the same thing happened. At the time, Prime Minister Radoslavov, Germanophile and Turkophile, took a 500 million loan from the same criminal bank as the SBC, accused of money laundering. Then it was called "Disconto Geselskat" and Ferdinand himself took 4 million. gold marks to bind Bulgaria to Germany's chariot and lose the war. And then what happens next? A New Year's contract. You're leading us to a new Neueen contract, and for that, you'll be in charge one day. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u164	Mr. Siderov, since here, next to you is the Minister of Defense, do you want him to answer the question you are asking? There aren't any. - What's the line? Mr. Simeonov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Siderov, I'm shocked! What's with the metamorphosis? The bright, excited beginner politician from 2005 is talking about bones, meats, deals, deals?! I don't recognize you! I just don't recognize you! Is that what you're thinking?! Do you see any other way to participate in politics than the one you demonstrated from this tribune, from this high tribune?! [[Replys from "Attacka". A line from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] No, I'm not going into dialogue with you! Your voice is weak, your height is low, you are not at this level. I'm not going into dialogue with you! [[Applause from GERB.]] When it is discussed and made such a highly responsible decision, I think it is inappropriate to use the rhetoric that is suitable for the lumpies that you brought here on five or six trips. [[Voices, lines from SG to attack.]] It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u166	Mr. Simeonov, if you please, since the National Assembly is less sensitive to insults, not to offend people outside the Assembly. Continue your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u167	And get to the point. Something didn't happen to this scheme that you were working on for nearly a week, deals, bargaining. Where are the deals, for what? Where are the bargains, for what? [[(Lowered noise and lines from Ataka.) The line of the MP Miglena Alexandrova.)]] Should we return...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u168	Please remain silent in this room. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] Sit down, Mrs. Alexandrova. Sit down and listen, you'll have the back. [[Loud noise. "Attack" lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u169	Mr. Chairman, please control the discipline in this Chamber. I feel like I'm on the freeway with the wrong highways. [[Lowered noise and lines from Ataka.]] Don't do that, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u170	As time is up, I ask that you finish with one sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u171	Yeah, in one sentence. For information to the viewers and colleagues, the representative of Ataka was present at the appointments in question, bargaining in the holidays between the first part and the second part of the meeting. Just so you know, a representative of Ataka was inside. [[Lowered noise and lines from Ataka.]] So that wasn't true, either.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u172	Thank you. I only insist, I do not yet make a comment, but not to use anthropological arguments in the speeches, and other comparisons that do not raise the prestige of the National Assembly. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] Here you are, Mr. Siderov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u173	On the subject of metamorphosis, Mr. Simeonov. Your metamorphosis from the biggest gay porn distributor through your TV operator [[(beeping) (beeping)]] You have become a very well-done parliamentarist who is already ready to deal with any kind of deal. From a provincial oligarch who hides income, you become a people's tribune instead of explaining why you corrupt your viewers with the most gay porn channels you provide and subscribe to your viewers, from which you earn and hide income.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u174	There are channels like this. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u175	As for your insult to Ataka's voters, you have already been sentenced to a third instance. At third instance, I have condemned you, and now I will condemn you again for insulting the voters of a party that promoted you to municipal councillor in Burgas, where your first job was to buy a plot. As chairman of the Municipal Council, your first job was to buy a plot of land. [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Remind the audience that because some people don't know that. [[Loud noise and lines from PF.]] Remind it to your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u176	Mr. Siderov, you're already outnumbered...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u177	I'm not overdoing anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u178	...and stick...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u179	I say facts to have an idea of what kind of coalition partners they're dealing with. They've already understood you the way you twisted their arms. Some of them complained to me. [[Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] They say, "This Valeri Simeonov, a hell of a job..."! [[Loud noise and lines from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u180	I call on the substance of the loan to be argued, not so much to make personal attacks between people who have...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u181	Mr. Stoilov, I'm used to answering when I'm being attacked. I don't strike first, but I answer because I have dignity. [[Applause from the "Attacka". Loud noise and lines. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] I understand you requested customs. There's a deal going on. It's no coincidence that you mention customs revenue so often here, you seem to want to put your hand on them. Maybe that's already been arranged. He's not here to answer that question because that's probably where the deal went. So admit it, tell yourself what the biggest pain really is, it'll make you feel better, they'll understand. They will understand you in Burgas County and where you supply gay porn channels your subscribers to SKAT Ltd. [[Strong noise and lines from PF. Claps by "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u182	Procedure Mrs. Dukova. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] What do you want, Mr. Kasabov? I'll give you the floor, there's a procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mrs. Dukova has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! You rightly said, Mr. Chairman, that the threshold of tolerance for parliament is low. However, the threshold of tolerance of individual MPs is not so low, the threshold of tolerance of people who are currently on the screens, I assure you they are there is not so low. I blame you for not having good conduct of the Assembly, for making a serious subject, as we are discussing today, into the arena of people who measure their authority. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] Therefore, I ask you to intervene when it comes to arrogance, rudeness, dishonesty, personal party passions, enmity and even hatred. We remember the moment of the triple coalition when you brought the National Assembly under 9% authority. [[Replys on the left.]] That's not what we're gonna do. [[Noise and lines.]] Be justified, be correct. People's ears are sensitive enough. [[Replys on the left. Loud noise and lines from Ataka. Banging at banks. Commendations: "Recaution, resignation, resignation! "]] Even with that, you show...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u184	Please let Mrs. Dukova finish her procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u185	You mix the tribune of the National Assembly with the polygon outside, to which other people can manifest themselves. You're unworthy, I'm ashamed, disgraceful! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u186	Before I give in to Mrs Tsacheva to continue holding the meeting, I will ask the parliamentary groups not to chant in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] Yes, because for this they will want a legitimate response, so let the discussion remain open until the end of the discussion. About Mrs. Dukova's note. Yeah, I'm partial to it. I've left it if I use this expression harder to develop the discussion. However, the moment when she became rude, I reacted without imposing sanctions, but I tried my approach to be the same to Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Siderov. So there is no reason to believe that this has prevented the objectivity of the discussion, and from now on, if it escalates this tone and qualifications, the President will also have to impose sanctions. The next speeches, Mr. Kasabov, did you want the floor? [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] Here you go. [[Replys from "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u187	Mr. Kasabov reminds me that he only made a line and didn't take the floor. [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] Now you want the floor of speech we're listening to.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers! I'm taking the floor because the passions are getting too hot. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Dukova because what she said in her brief exposé, a speech, sounded to me like epitaph, that is, the eulogy of a party with the golden finger. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u189	Colleagues, I'm asking you to get back to the item on the agenda. I'm not gonna let it go away.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u190	I'm going back. It's just the introduction...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u191	Mr. Kasabov, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u192	Please, Madam President, this is just the introduction, this is the introduction. [[(Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]] I'm just getting started. [[(Radio.) Loud noise and lines.)]] At first, I allowed myself to pick up the microphones a little bit, match my height, because here a perhydrotic man who bleaches his hair... [[(Laughter) Loud noise and lines from "Attacka.")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u193	Mr. Kasabov, I take your word for it. [[Loud noise and lines. Audiences by "Attacka". People's representative Valentin Kasabov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Kasabov, I have summoned you in due order... [[(Voices by Ataka....................................................................................................... Loud ……]] Mr. Kasabov, please... [[National Representative Valentin Kasabov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Siderov, please... [[Parliamentary group of "Attacka" together with the MP Volen Siderov surrounds the parliamentary tribune. He's drunk! He's loud.]] Mr. Siderov, take your seat so we can continue. [[Replications between the MPs Volen Siderov and Valentin Kasabov. Loud noise and lines.]] Sit down and let's move on! [[Loud noise and lines. Replies between the MPs of the People's Republic and the National Representative Valentin Kasabov.]] Take your seat! [[Reply from the National Representative Volen Siderov.]] Sanctuated him, took his word away. [[Loud noise. Replies from the Members of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Ataka.]] Due to a disturbance in the Chamber, I'm announcing a ten-minute recess. (After the interruption.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u194	The hearing is ongoing. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? Mrs. Miglena Alexandrova has not taken the floor from the speakers so far. Mrs. Alexandrova from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka? Are there any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u195	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! For the short time, I will start with a proposal: I propose a roll-call vote at the point. I do so on behalf of the parliamentary group. 63, para. 2, p. 3 "Staying from the place and declaring the vote". I am making this proposal in today's historic day because by voting we will determine the future of our children and the fate of generations of Bulgarians. We have the historic chance to show political wisdom and responsibility by rejecting this Ratification. From this high tribune and the importance it has for democratic parliamentaryism by you, I call you gentlemen ruling, show your mind, give up this act. You know that these reckless fiscal actions will finally bring the country into the debt spiral. Colleagues, listen to your conscience! Even you are not convinced of the arguments with which you support the requested ratification for a party reason. No party interest stands above the right of every Bulgarian citizen to live decently, to be educated, to have the opportunity to heal. Come to your senses! Bulgarian citizens may be patient, but when the life and the future of their children is threatened, they will not remain idle. You'll be asked for an account! It will not be sought by the smart and beautiful, by the intelligent and erudite, who for one billion declared this to be madness, but for 16 billion that this is a normal practice of debt. Do not delude yourself or underestimate authentic civil energy. She doesn't have access to the grants from foreign foundations, but she does have a real moral charge. BSP is not able to support this treaty. The thesis of the need for the amount of this debt is wrong, misleading and even illegal because the requested amount of external debt is far below 12 billion. We will not support a lie that this huge debt provides financial stability. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Only one sentence "BSP left Bulgaria" will not support lawlessness.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u196	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. I gave you a signal. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u197	I appeal, don't break the law, and don't violate the Constitution. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u198	Colleagues, are there any other MPs who would like to take a stand? Before that, on the occasion of the request made, according to art. 63, para. 2, p. 3 The obvious vote may be made by taking place on a roll call in alphabetical order and responding with a.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to the argument of art. 64 this proposal under c. 3 can be done by one tenth of all MPs, or by one parliamentary group, I accept that there is a second hypothesis on behalf of your parliamentary group. The proposal is put to the vote without debate, a MP from a parliamentary group is heard, which disagrees with the proposal made. Now it is right to ask, are there any representatives of a parliamentary group who do not agree with the proposal made? If there are none, I will put this proposal directly to the vote. I don't see anyone wishing for an opinion back. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Turnovaliyski on behalf of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria to vote in accordance with art. 63, para. 2, p. 3. Vote 189 MPs: 59 against 100, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I call for you to support this proposal in the second vote. The fact that no one got up to speak up and put an argument against the form of vote presented shows that you do not want everyone to stand in their position for............................................................................................. Even in those 45 minutes when the Minister of Finance spoke, he did not answer the question of what the funds asked for. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] He made a very detailed analysis of the structure of the fiscal reserve, but with regard to the funds needed by the state, he said mainly that it was necessary to refinance the funds given to a bank and suddenly reached the necessary 12 billion. lv. My proposal is for you to support the re-vote this and for everyone to have the opportunity to say that I supported or I rejected that debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u200	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 202 MPs: 61, against 118, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Alexandrova signed up for a speech. You don't have to say anything, okay? Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u201	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! What we are being offered today by opposition parties has already been done by Lukanov, called the day "historically," imposed a moratorium on the payments of foreign debt and this led to a national catastrophe.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u202	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u203	Therefore, the lessons of history must be taught and not repeated. The story of fate is that those who have accumulated the vast majority of this external debt now refuse to pay it. It's those who have accumulated the vast majority that now say they don't want to pay for it. [[BSP LB.]] What people have understood and every person should know the deficit is directly becoming a new external debt. When I heard a number of representatives from the BSP, including in debates with me, say that they were for a 3% budget deficit because it was a European policy, and they were against an increase in external debt, it was a very short example of severe economic demagogy. There's no way you can be on the deficit as well as against the foreign debt! You can't! One goes with the other. People have finally understood, after all the speeches that were made, that the deficit means nothing more and nothing less than a new debt for Bulgaria. That is why reform policies are needed. That is why this cabinet must succeed because it has seen the clear difference between right-center policy and left-wing policy, which is the accumulation of deficits and the accumulation of debts. [[BSP LB.]] Right-centre policy is to reduce deficit, which means a reduction in the medium term of debt. That's what we're trying to do. [[BSP LB.]] This must happen, which means protecting the centre-right majority and dealing with it and continuing, including going through this today, populist, fellow Members, ordeal. The easiest thing to say is you don't want a debt, even if you've accumulated it, and you're not offering any alternative at all, you're not offering anything. What we from the Reformation Block will work and propose is through reforms the contraction of the deficit, even if it is greater than what is currently recorded.. to have a smaller deficit this year than bets, next year the trend to continue and so on until we manage to balance the budget. This is the only way out if we want stable public finances and if we want Bulgaria to come out of the crisis and achieve growth. Yes, in order to have growth to move the economy up, to grow incomes, we need to solve the deficit problem. Today we are voting on the drug without this medicine will not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u204	Time, time! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u205	There's a lot of people on the left... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u206	Mr. Dimitrov, focus on the last sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u207	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u208	...who know it's the cure. They know we're right, and yet they continue demagogy. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u209	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u210	In the manner of conduct! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u211	Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u212	He doesn't have time, he doesn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u213	When it is in the manner of conduct, time is not needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u214	Please don't engage in dialogue with the House, Mr. Ermenkov. I gave you my word!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u215	I'm sorry. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Madam President, I understand your tolerance and tolerance for speeches here, you are democratic. But I beg you very much, when lies, insinuations, including those who accumulate the debt, are poured out from the stands to the left. Sorry, 5 billion is on the right and not on the left. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking you very much to stop them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u216	Mr. Ermenkov, make a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u217	I'm addressing you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u218	And don't make me a note to stop them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u219	Stop them, because, first, they abuse our time. Second of all, they're lying. And third of all, it's not pretty to lie from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u220	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Relations from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov.]] That was the way to lead me, Mr. Dimitrov. The word wants Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u221	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! I owe a few words to this House because the subject that is being discussed today is largely affecting what I am committed to working with the government. Unfortunately for me, I've seen many times in this room the same decisions that weren't good that were just stupid. Many times I have seen decisions that have been made as a result of emotions, and they are one of the worst decisions. I've seen many times here in this room, decisions that have had severe consequences for people since then. Whatever explains anyone, when a little time passes from the distance, you can see what these solutions are. And they're all taken with one enthusiasm, which I've seen in a lot of speeches today. When we talk about the issue that will be voted on today, we are talking about something very concrete. Yes, it is true, in parliament, everyone uses the topic to develop their political identity. But you're discussing not taking any debt. You're discussing an agreement with intermediaries, it's not about debt. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u222	Colleagues, I ask you to show each other respect, at least to the members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u223	Obviously, you haven't read what you do, but you're quite noisy. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u224	Mr. Gorov, I'm paying attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u225	The less someone understands, the more they call. [[Applause from GERB.]] Secondly, debt is decided by you here in this House of Parliament. When Bulgaria has 7 billion to repay for 2015, whether it is domestic or foreign debt, it does not matter, it is debt, you voted this thing with the Budget Act. When you voted 2.5 billion deficit this year, you voted it with the Budget Act. And now you're surprised! A total of 9.5 billion voted by you this year, from this House. And today someone comes out and starts to play with the words: "Ama, it's an external debt, but it's not an internal debt. But why do you do it this way? " - It is obvious that this is being voted every year. Yes, I will tell you, if the deficit is reset, this is what Mr. Djankov did, against which all of you here, the majority of you have at least protested, this means for this year for example 12% to reduce the budgets of absolutely all departments, in order to be zero deficit and not to have a deficit. I am telling you that the system that I am tasked with dealing with the social system will not be able to bear such a reduction. If anyone has any other ideas, maybe they should say them. But these are the facts. The facts are recorded in your December decisions by voting on this budget. One more sentence. Here I tell you my opinion as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The parliamentary group that broadcast me has a different opinion. They have their autonomy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u226	Fall back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u227	But the way it is being discussed and decided really raises the question of how effective I can be in the government, and this morning I have put this issue before the Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u228	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov? Here you go. [[GERB lines.]] I gave the word to Mr. Jablyanov, then to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u229	Madam President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that when ministers go out on this platform, they cannot give assessments to the MPs how competent they are and how they are not. The competence of the minister who spoke before will become evident in the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u230	You're competent in everything!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u231	What can I do, Mr. Zablyanov, because your procedure is for me? Mr. Kirilov, are you also in the way of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u232	No, by the book.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u234	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time until the end of this item by voting, i.e. until the vote on this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u235	Second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u236	A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u237	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u238	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u239	Tell me time in groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u240	I'll announce the time. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made to extend plenary time today until the votes on this point have been completed. They voted 201 MPs: 189, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The remaining time of the parliamentary groups to participate in the debate is as follows: GERB The word wants the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov. [[Voices: "Eee!" by BSP LB.]] Mr. Goranov, limit of your speech to 10 minutes. [[Laughter, raging and shouting]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u241	Thank you, Madam President, for your fair treatment of the government. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I have conducted many consultations on whether or not on time to sue me for this! I understood one thing: many of the parties that supported the government initially had informational ambiguity. It was overcome thanks to the parties who wanted to know the truth. They got it. I thank them. The number required as a limit for a contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the banks intermediaries is startling. However, we have reformated the debate from a conjunctural, annual planning towards a debate close to the horizon, to which a government can be held responsible for the government's governance before new elections. I have spoken with many professional colleagues who are in this Chamber as MPs. They refered to the past. I have to say this. Colleagues, take out the transcripts. See 2012-a, 2013-a, 2014 the self-respecting economists, who are not independent but are in their capacity as MPs, how they led this debate. I owe an apology to the current opposition if I have ever allowed myself to speak against the assumption of a debt caused by the fact that there has been a deficit over the years. [[Reply from DPS.]] I remember well that Mrs. Stoyanova and I have repeatedly discussed the strategy of the opposition party GERB and have never allowed ourselves to criticize the governance on the day of the white bus and before it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u242	Because you weren't in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u243	We have not allowed ourselves to criticize the government for its debt, but for not making enough effort to reduce the deficit in order not to need this debt. I believe in the reforming capacity of this government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u244	We don't!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u245	Sixteen billion, which is a framework agreement with intermediaries banks, today we are not talking about debt-taking at all, because today's act ratifys an International Mediation Contract, we do not take on any debt today. We took on 7 billion debt at the end of last year when we voted on the state budget for 2015. Whether we will take on more debt, we will decide together in the coming years with the vote on the state budget laws. I believe in the reforming capacity of this government and I commit that at least 2 billion, at least 2 billion of the estimate that we have made as a sum of the maturity plus the planned deficit will not have to be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u246	What about the others?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u247	And 2 billion is the minimum! Two billion is the minimum! Two billion is the minimum of what will not benefit from the limit under the Framework Programme for debt-taking. Let these political parties, who today have raised the debate in the way in which the role and responsibility of the Bulgarian Parliament, as the supreme authority, should realize that the government is formulated in just one way, making decisions and taking responsibility. Anyone who isn't ready can't be called a ruler. Thank you. [[Loud and long applause by GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u248	Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Professor Borisov, after him Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u249	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! The reason for my current speech is the first and second speech of the finance minister, as well as the conversation and the questions that were asked him in the break, and the answers that he gave. ABB has a decision not to support today's proposal because we have not received an answer to two questions. The first question was related to the exact amount of debts that we have taken so far... what we have to repay. And in this regard, whether the 12 billion we want as debt does not exceed the amount of these repayments. According to the calculations of our specialists, led by the working group of the financier Kostadin Prodanov and other specialists, this debt is the amount that the Minister just named about 2 billion lower, I round the figures. I'm talking about the debt that has to be paid. This was the first reason we disagreed with the assumption of a new debt of 12 billion, given that repayments amounted to about 10 billion. I have just heard and I think I have heard correctly that the Minister of Finance has been asked by us and, in the break before the Minister of Finance, made the commitment to reduce the amount of debt or not to spend. [[Radio, lines and shouts from the left block: "Eee! "]] $2 billion, $2 billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u250	Colleagues, the World Cup competition starts on Friday. Such shouts are inherent in the white tracks! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u251	I take that as an appropriate answer to our question and to our requirement to reduce debt. [[BSP LB.]] The second reason or second question, which we had not received a convincing answer, is the formation of the future budget deficit from expenditure for what will it be done? I am not afraid of a budget deficit at all if it is formed by investment-related expenditure and economic growth. I am afraid of spending that will sink into the sand without providing neither economic growth nor income nor any improvement in the nation's lifestyle. We wanted to get an explanation of the direction, the nature of these costs. From Minister Goranov's first speech, if I have understood correctly, let him correct me, I understand that he, as a representative of the government, expressed his willingness to discuss the direction. Naturally, every expenditure cannot be written down for what it will be about the expenditure forming the future deficit. I think that in this way, the second question, if you want, accept it as a condition set by the ABB, for which we were against the acceptance of today's ratification, received a satisfactory response. [[Applause on the left.]] I therefore allow myself to ask the parliamentary group to gather for a discussion in this new situation what our vote will be like. I think the conditions set by the ABB have so far received a satisfactory response. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and Plovdiv by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u252	Replices, coworkers? There aren't any. Mr. Tsonev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Today, it seems that the debate has returned to the framework in which it should have been from the beginning of the adoption of this ratification agreement in plenary. [[Noise and lines.]] If we're gonna yell at each other, guys, it's okay. All you have to do is tell me to pick up the volume. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Otherwise, you can let me speak normally. Within the framework because yesterday, at a deliberate meeting of the DPS Parliamentary Group and the briefing after it, we said three arguments that we believe are missing in this debate. Three directions in which the debate should have developed. And the deficit of these arguments gives rise to our decision to vote against. The first, because there was an absolute deficit of consultation, of a political debate between the ruling majority, between the government and the opposition. We understand that there has been such a deficit in the ruling majority itself, but that is none of our business. And this deficit is important, it shouldn't be there, because, as we said, this debt will return in the next 30 years, and within, as Mr. Mestan said, to several governments, to several governments. It's not clear how much. The second argument is economic. For us, debt-taking with these deficits, which are envisaged, is a denial of reform! Yesterday we asked the question: why did the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have to put aside its close party interest, prefer national interest to create a better political environment to make the necessary reforms and withdraw from power in May? Since with this document you have stated a definite refusal of reforms! Today in speaking we have other commitments, we have another direction. We're talking about this! People need to hear this. You can't have come to power with a commitment to reform, to shrink deficits, to everything that didn't happen! We cannot have given up power to have political stability and this stability to understand it as xenophobic speaking and closing of decisions that affect the entire Bulgarian people and all political parties within the cabinet and the ruling majority! I'm glad you corrected that position. On behalf of the DPS, I urge you not to make such a mistake again. The third argument we said was purely fiscal, financial. That's where we made two grades. The first is that the innovative approach for Bulgaria for three years of debt management is good because over these three years 12 billion debts mature. And this is the first time since 2001! The three-year governance will give transparency and predictability to debt management. However, this should have happened in a debate, in a discussion, with "for" and "against" as we did today in the Chamber. Although late, though in limited time, this is still something. From this point of view, we in the DPS believe that the easy position is to enter the skin in which we were in 2013 and 2014, honourable partners and colleagues from the BSP, our opponents who were screaming outside with the signs that you have now written: They are robbing the Bulgarian people! 12 billion of this debt will be returned! 1.7 of it has already been returned in January. 10.3 will be returned in the next three years! This debt has not been taken over now, it has been taken over by all of us who have ruled over these twenty-something years. This one first. Secondly, should we go in that direction and continue to talk in this spirit about debt, as our political opponents have spoken?! We were persistently objecting to them not opening Pandora's box! When this Parliament talks about debt, the national interest is to let the debt be borne at minimum costs, under the best conditions for the country! They opened Pandora's box and now plucked out the glass that we took in 2013, but eventually the Bulgarian people drank it. That's why we have to close this page. This is how debt is said: firstly, a conversation between the political forces, consultation, convincing of necessity, the absolute need to assume this debt, the inability to be poet, its correction within normal policies, that is, if it can be corrected, as I have heard today that it can happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u254	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u255	Allow me one more sentence. And then you walk into a room and you don't talk. Everything else is what we saw in 2013 and 2014. It is not good for the country. It is not good for the Bulgarian people. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We are satisfied that there is a request for reform and 2 billion less. We are satisfied that the financial system will seek stability and collection of the money from CCB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u256	Time's up, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u257	Mr. Secretary, you can collect them! And we'll be watching to make these reforms. We will monitor how individual debt maturity is issued. We will monitor how it is being spent, and each year, with our participation in the adoption of the budget, we will monitor the deficit limits and the public debt limits. Therefore, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms now, under these conditions, will support this ratification in the context of the reduced debt and in the commitment to reform and in the recognition of everything that should not have happened. [[(Applause. From Ataka chanting: Gor-chi-vo! Gore-chi-woo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u258	There are no lines. Any other MPs? Mr. Tanchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u259	Thank you, Madam President. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u260	Colleagues, I'm asking for a little more patience!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u261	I'll be brief, because I'm not much of a talker. I would like to make a brief, precise and clear statement of some arguments. First of all, I am pleased that we are really seeing today the debate that was supposed to be going on and had to have it in the last week, to really make it clear to everyone what and how we are going to spend this money. On the other hand, I am pleased that I also thought that about 2 billion is more money, which is given as a demand for this debt and I am pleased that Minister Goranov makes a commitment not to reach these figures, for which we will watch closely. [[(Strong noise in the hall, calls from BSP LB: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] The other major problem I had was that we admit that we will have years of deficit. We accept it, and that's a fact. Here, too, I see that Mr. Goranov is making a clear commitment and we will very closely and closely monitor these deficits what will be the trend of their growth in the coming years. I hope that this will be negative and we will have the opportunity to conduct these debates in the forthcoming discussions on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. I hope that the government, the entire coalition, have learnt your lessons about how communication should run, how we should be honest with voters and Bulgarian citizens, and therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask for a 15-minute break so that we can have an opportunity with our parliamentary group to discuss and enter really with a single decision. Thank you. [[Radio, loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u262	Mr. Tanchev, I respect your request for a break, but it can be done no later than one hour of debate time left in the Chamber. And since time is already advanced enough, I cannot argue that we will continue until 3:00. There's no way I'm going to give this vacation, but you're a compact enough group on site, I think you could consult. [[Noise and lines.]] Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? [[The BBC Parliamentary Group is leaving the plenary room.]] I don't see anyone else. Mr. Siderov, do you hold on to your proposal for a name check before the vote? You're holding on to this proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Although the Chamber is full, the two groups are in parliament and as soon as I announce the vote, I am convinced that they will enter the Chamber, Mr. Siderov. [[Heckling]] You're not withdrawing the offer. Mr. Siderov, do you hold this proposal? [[Heckling]] Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. In view of the vote and the procedural proposal made earlier today, a name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Methodiev - here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Colleagues, there will now be such a movement in the Chamber, which is noted, comes out, and then in the vote what will benefit us from the roll call check. Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Quaestors, alert your colleagues at the ABC that there's a roll call coming in. Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavcho Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here There is a quorum. During the inspection there were 213 MPs. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria in the capacity of Enumerator and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P LC, Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG in the capacity of Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Agency's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer and Citibank N.A., branch London, as a Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent, Transfer Agent and Agent for the Calculation of Citigroup Global Markets Deutsche AG in the capacity of Registor, Payment Agent and Agent for the Transfer of the Global Mid-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria to issue bonds worth EUR 8 000 000 000, signed on 6 February 2015. Colleagues, we're voting. Vote 223 MPs: 161, against 50, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Negative vote. First negative vote, Lord Boychev. [[The National Representatives of BSP LB are chanting "Omission," "Omission" and raising inscriptions: "No debt", "Don't condemn our children, "Don't enslave Bulgaria, "Omission."]] Thanks, guys. Now you will be able to hear the first negative vote by Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, then by Mr. Bajraktarov and another by Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I voted against it, because in this debate, a week and something, including that day, has not been answered to any of the questions we have asked: firstly, what is the real amount of debt we have to repay in this three-year period? [[Loud noise GERB.]] Why, voting on the 2015 budget, p. 84 The Ministry of Finance points to some levels of external debt this year, and right now, Mr. Goranov, you've uploaded another and the difference is 3.4 billion? I voted against it because you have in no way said how much debt will increase and what its ratio will be as a percentage of gross domestic product. On page 1, page 1, 91 of the budget, from the updated forecast, you are talking about a nominal increase of 1.5 billion to 24 billion or 27.4% of gross domestic product. 27 billion and 31.3% are currently hanging on the website of the Ministry of Finance. Where's he going?! I voted against it because you did not say in these accounts do 1.7 billion on the global bonds of Milen Velchev paid on 15 January?! What will be the fate of the three billion allocated to one bank, for the two billion that are for the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I voted against it because you have not given any argument why we should revalue this debt and radically change the ratio between internal and external debt. I voted against it because you did not say how you chose these banks and what their duty would be. Without answering these questions, it is irresponsible to vote. That is why we did not support this decision. But the only good thing about today's vote is that it very clearly outlines the political framework of those who support the government and will bear the responsibility from now on. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] And for BSP, all we have to do is watch how you spend every penny of that debt! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. National Representative Radan Kanev wants the floor for a negative vote.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u264	Mr. Kanev, I understand you want the floor for a negative vote, but you've made your point, which is why I can't give you the floor. Mr. Radan Kanev spoke at the meeting last Wednesday. The word for negative vote has Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Bayraktarov, in my notes you didn't take the floor. I hope you're not abusing me if I missed something. There's a third negative vote from the attack. [[National Representative Maya Manolova wants the floor for a negative vote.]] There's no fourth negative vote, Mrs. Manolova. There's plenty of groups. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u265	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I voted against the political lie! I voted against political hypocrisy! I voted against the destructive DPS Party, which once again showed that it is an anti-Bulgarian party! [[Laughter and partial applause by BSP LB.]] Those same gentlemen spent ten days pouring lies into society. When were you honest, you DPS guys?! Because, my fellow Members, the DPS doesn't have an electorate to care for. They don't have voters. Their right is the feudal right, the right to smash. That is why the Patriotic Front has shown that it is a national political force, with a clear image and honesty, which comes out of the voters of the Patriotic Front, not a political chameleon, who is always ready to lie to people! Imagine how the DPS would control spending financials?! It's like letting the wolf guard the herd. That's the DPS! Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u266	Mr. Chukolov, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u267	Yes, we voted against it from Ataka. The entire Parliamentary Group of "Attack".11 people, we voted against. You, from the Patriotic Front, abstained. Why did you refrain? Do you think you can hold back the truth? What's the truth? Today was a kind of vote of confidence of the government Borisov 2, or of the government "Marsi" - as Siderov said earlier. You had a vote of confidence today. We have seen that the coalition is no longer quadruple, it has become a five-year coalition. Will you, from the Patriotic Front, continue to support this government? As you can see, Borisov is playing with the DPS. Will you support this government? Are you gonna keep doing this thing? You're gonna keep going, yeah, 'cause it's cute. [[Field lines]] The DPS came to its natural place with Korman Ismailov, where you are also from the Patriotic Front. So today has shown many things and I hope that these things will be seen by the voters. This is where we talked about debt. How many have we spoken, how many times has the word been used today? If you are aware, I hope that we have a duty to Bulgaria, we have a duty to our constituents. If your constituents knew that such billions would just be taken as calendars you give them away. If your constituents knew that, would they vote for you? That's what you should think about and let them think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u268	Thank you. Mrs. Stoyanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable ministers, colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal under the order of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to adopt the law and to a second vote. [[Noise, cheer, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u270	In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov. [[BSP LB lines. People's representative Maya Manolova wants the floor for a reverse proposal.]] When requested in the manner of conduct, I give the floor immediately. You didn't give me a chance to ask for a reverse offer. [[BSP LB.]] Mr. Ermenkov asked for the floor, I have to give it to him right away. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u271	Madam President, if memory serves, continuing working hours today was until the end of the first vote on this law, not until its final adoption. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] Please, no one has mentioned the final adoption of the law. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] I ask you very much once again, if you would like to make another procedural proposal to continue our working hours and for a second reading. Let's not break the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u272	Mr. Ermenkov, perhaps because you are further away from the microphones, Mr. Kirilov's proposal was until the vote was completed. In the same way, I have put very clearly in the transcription that I have stated until the votes on this point have been completed. Conversely, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u273	Madam President, honourable Members, I object to the request for a second vote in today's plenary session. I declare on my own behalf and on behalf of my parliamentary group that we wish to make proposals between first and second readings of this bill. [[(Radio.) Proclaims and lines by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u274	By the law of ratification?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u275	Absolutely, yeah. The finance minister himself said there are doubts about the amount of debt to be taken. Under this condition, they supported the debt and two of the parliamentary groups, and I quote the intention of the ABB MPs to ask for 2 billion less debt. So, Madam President, I say that I would like to make a proposal between the two votes to reduce this debt to a size of 6,9 billion. BGN, as stated in the Law on the State Budget. It's my right as MP. Please allow me to take advantage of this procedure with sufficient time for proposals between first and second readings. Otherwise, the law, which was passed with such haggling, uidurms and trade in plenary, will fall into the Constitutional Court. [[(Radio.) Revelations and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u276	Dear Members of Parliament, I must remind you of art. 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, under which the powers of the National Assembly are to ratify and denounce international treaties by law. In this case, we are faced with precisely such a hypothesis. In the circle of the powers of the National Assembly is not the conclusion and amendment of the treaty itself, which contains the specific parameters. [[Applause from GERB.]] In this sense is also the provision of art. 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The text of the Treaty cannot be amended under a bill for ratification of an international treaty. Colleagues, we have an explicit text. I put the proposal to the vote. [[The National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u277	He'll fall into the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u278	Good, Mr. Mikov, when he falls. It's your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u279	Why are you lying to people?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u280	That's how I've interpreted the Constitution and the Rules. If you interpret it the other way around... [[Heckling]] Colleagues, there is a procedure for voting on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposal for voting and at the second reading of the Draft in plenary. Vote 207 MPs: 156, against 48, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mikov has a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, MPs, the vote was unacceptable. Each law passes into two readings and each MP has the right to make proposals for a second reading. Whether or not an international treaty is the work of the cabinet. In a single law and its proposals, even the Law of ratification cannot reject proposals of MPs and thus violate the Constitution. So I ask you to cancel the vote and move on to the normal procedure for each law, as is every law of ratification. There are already proposals in the Office, they need to be discussed. From now on, your steps will lead to direct unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u282	The way you're holding Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u283	Madam President, honourable Members, let us remain calm. A few minutes ago, I submitted proposals to the Office under the State Budget Act 2015. You are very well consulted on the mediation of up to 3.5 billion. euros as we voted and you proposed at the end of last year. So no 8 billion, no extermination of the Bulgarians. Three and a half billion as much as you've been voted on, negotiate, issue as you see fit. We've submitted a proposal to the Office. There's a Constitution, and we want it to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u284	I put the motion for a vote to re-vote and at the second reading of the bill in this plenary sitting. [[Heckling]] Mr. Mikov asked for a re-vote. Isn't that right, Mr. Mikov? [[Heckling]] The moment Mr. Mikov approached the stand, he told me he wanted a re-vote. There's a re-voting procedure going on right now. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, it is good that the Bulgarian Constitution provided for an explicit institution such as the Constitutional Court. So don't worry. We are voting on the proposal for a second vote on the draft in a plenary session with the first vote. The vote is 209 MPs: 156, against 48, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova. Report for second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u285	The name of the law: The Act for ratification of the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as Enumerator and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P.L.C., Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG as Organizers and Dealers for the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Treaty on Agentship between the Republic of Bulgaria as Enumerator and Citibank N.A., London branch, acting as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citigroup Global Marquettes Deutscheland AG as Register, Payment Agent and Transfer Agent for the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015 and on the Act on the taking-up of commitments by the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer on the global medium-term programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for issuing bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015 Art. 1. It ratifies the Dealer's Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as Enumerator and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank P.L.C., Societe General and Unicredit Bank AG as Organizers and Dealers on the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015, of the Treaty on Agentship between the Republic of Bulgaria as Enumerator and Citibank N.A., London branch, acting as Financial Agent, Payment Agent, Transfer Agent and Calculation Agent and Citigroup Global Markets Deutscheland AG as Register, Payment Agent and Transfer Agent for the Global Medium-term Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the issue of bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015 and the Act on the taking-up of commitments by the Republic of Bulgaria as issuer on the global medium-term programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for issuing bonds worth 8 billion. EUR, signed on 6 February 2015 Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I would like to make a technical amendment. 1s and 1s shall be replaced by the only member. I have a proposal for the creation of the name of the section "Concluding provision" and "Art." The first step is to become the only one. He says: "The work has entered into force since the day of its promulgation in the State Gazette. "
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u286	Statements? Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, regarding the amount of debt, we just received the entry number. We want to comply with the law of Bulgaria "The Budget Act 2015" and empower the Minister of Finance to negotiate the debt we voted on him, namely 6 billion. 900 million. lv. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Because let us recall that for 2015 after the payment of January 15th, for the hundredth time we will say there are 4 billion left. 600 million. lv. [[Noise and lines.]] From the Ministry of Finance website. This debt that we are going to pay is debt as follows: a poet by Mr. Goranov s. 3 billion bridge credit for KTB. Secondly, two short-term loans, from Mr. Goranov, 400 million each. EUR., and thirdly, Mr. Djankov's debt of the period total 2009 - 2013 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Euros. [[Noise and lines.]] On the website of the Ministry of Finance. So you pay old debts taken by the government Borisov 1. That should be clear. Second, the estimates of the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria show... [[GERB lines.]] They have sent estimates to Madam President of Parliament, who have not been announced. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] These estimates coincide with a difference of several million, but about 8 billion. 400 million. lv. is the debt to be served, not 16 billion. We are not talking about 2 billion less, we are talking about 3 billion less, we are talking about 7 billion less. 600 million. lv. So the amount of debt is different. Colleagues, the most important thing is nothing political. Take a look at the following things: interest rates. The main argument of colleague Goranov, Minister of Finance, was that this way we introduce an innovation unheard of around the world and manage the debt would be cheaper because of the low interest rates. Are the interest rates low now? Yeah, they're short. Even Harvard and Cambridge aren't hired to tell us what interest rates will be in a year or two. In addition, the Budget Act prohibits a fellow Member, watch closely, you cannot issue debt this year for 2016 and 2017. Isn't that right?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] If you can't issue debt, how will you sell debt at low interest?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] The Act on Budget The tradition in Bulgaria, the practice of the European Union, of the United Nations, is, and that is why the budget laws are year-to-year and you have no right to issue debt and to take interest debts at the moment, which are lower, as you say, would be lower next years. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Banging at banks. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u288	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Don't make me interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u289	You are violating the Budget Act, so I suggest that the service of the debt of the Republic of Bulgaria be done within the framework of the Bulgarian Constitution and within the framework of the Budget Act. Your numbers are misleading and you're breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u290	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] Mr. Kadyev. [[Loud noise and lines. People's representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor for a line.]] No, it's a statement. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] I've announced Mr. Kadyev's statement. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u291	Madam President, honourable Members! As I expect colleague Mihov to request a procedure: termination of speeches [[crowd cheering, laughing]] I urge you not to be in such a hurry. We talked about the resignation of a MP this morning. There will come a time when we will talk about the resignation of all of you because of this gigantic manipulation. [[(crowd cheering and cheering: "Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] That you're doing today. I want to tell you three things you're manipulating. The first thing is that these were debts that have been taken by governments for the past 20 years. I'm sorry, I'm going to read you a few numbers: 2005. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 2006 ==References=====External links===* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further In these four years, the external debt of 29% of GDP fell to 13.5%. He's 27 now, and something's gonna be 31. Do you know why? Because here are your deficits in your first management: 2009 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Deficits, deficits, deficits! That's your problem. That's how you finance them, with debts. Do you know who will pay these debts? Who do you think's gonna pay for it?! [[GERB lines.]] I will read to you, honourable Members, a message from the National Revenue Agency from today: The National Revenue Agency is launching a comprehensive campaign to ignore the speed of hairdressers, cosmetics, manicurists and so on, working in the field of beauty and health. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Hairdressers, cosmetics and manicurists! You're going to collect revenue from them to cover 16 billion?! Retired, students... [[Heckling]] Let's go! Of all of them, let's collect. Why? To spend 4 billion that you can't tighten your administrations and you can't make surpluses like we've done them for years. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear Madam President, I am making a formal proposal: the number 8 billion. EUR to be replaced by 7 billion. euros to ensure that colleagues from DPS and ABB are calm that the commitment that was made by the Minister of Finance is not just some words said here. As he said: he is no one today is a minister, tomorrow is not, only tomorrow we will repay debts. So let the text record from 8 to 7 billion. Euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u292	Mr. Kadiev, there's no way from 8 to 7 because we're ratifying a contract that's not signed by us to edit this contract. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u293	Then what commitments does the Minister of Finance make, and why do his colleagues believe him?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u294	This is not an editorial amendment, and there is no way I'm going to let it vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u295	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u296	Mr. Mihov, I asked you not to do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u297	Before your procedure Mr. Radan Kanev at the very beginning, at the same time with Mr. Kadiev, asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u298	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that the Group of the Reformation Block will also vote at second reading for the proposed bill. [[BSP LB.]] As at the first reading, will be present one hundred percent in the hall. Unlike the first reading, he will vote one hundred percent for. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]] Secondly, I would especially like to thank my colleagues from the DPS and ABB, especially those from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because they are opposition, they had the moral and political right to flow into people of political populism, but they did not. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]] I believe that this does not change our relationship in many planes, only that responsible political behaviour must be recognised and reflected..................... that is very important. Thirdly, a few words on why I voted against it during the first reading, and I will vote for it during the second. Our position in favour of the so proposed agreement has been unwavering since the first moment it is publicly known. We have actively supported it without regard to possible populist dividends, without the slightest hesitation that when you are convinced of the correctness of a measure, even if you are not sure that you will be able to convince your voters, you must do the maximum for responsible and stable governance. For this reason, neither for a moment nor for any of us to hesitate to put forward arguments, to fight and in any way to ensure that this measure would not be withdrawn, revoked or not to go through the plenary, so there is no doubt that if it was hanging by a hair, as it appeared at the beginning of today, my voice would have been about. However, I am obliged in the name of this same stability that we are talking about, in the name of the stable prospects of governance in Bulgaria, to stress that we should not leave in society and the slightest doubt that it is a political manor, which can question the current majority in the 40th and third parliament of Bulgaria a majority of four parties in four years, with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for a second term. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is the decision for which we united when we voted the government. This is the format that has signed a very ambitious management programme containing the necessary reforms so that we do not have to have such a traumatic debate about government debt anymore. And if this majority is questioned, and if his term is questioned in the name of small political accounts, trust me.. the next time will be discussed 16 billion, but euros, and then we better not be in this room because we will not be allowed out of it. [[BSP LB.]] This negative vote was a vote in favour of Prime Minister Borisov's ambition to rule Bulgaria for four years, with a reformist majority excluding the previous ruling from its ranks, and with the efforts of the government and the majority to impose all reforms that are reflected in the government's programming declaration, and I do not think we would be wrong if we were a little bolder than the government's programming declaration. Finally, when the government and today the majority, together with parts of the opposition, ensure the financial stability of the state, it is also possible to ensure the financial stability of the tens of thousands of companies hanging on the state and municipal budgets as leeches, thanks to whose smooth existence we are today in this hall. Comfort for the country's governance can mean comfort for those who are accustomed to abuse of the country's governance, and then financial stability will last for a short time and the stability of governance will last for a short time. Given the traumatic way in which the presentation and approval of this agreement took place, which we will support today at second reading, I rely on the personal guarantees of Prime Minister Borisov that these reforms will be carried out, which will not allow a penny of this debt to be stolen, as has happened so far. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u299	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. First line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u300	Dear colleagues, Mr. Kanev! Since when is debt stability? Increasing debt is not financial stability, increasing debt is a new risk. If the increase in debt and debt were stability, Greece would be the most stable country in the Eurozone. Argentina would be the most stable country in Latin America with its billions of debts. You are using the financial stability of the previous management because of the rate of debt to gross domestic product and this allows you to withdraw this credit right now. Mr. Finance Minister to come out here and tell himself honestly why the favorable terms of the loan are? Well, because of the low debt as a percentage in terms of gross domestic product! Each bank will give each country credit under such low public debt. The only thing you can do is thank you. The second thing, to apologize and say that debt-taking cannot be stability, because this means, as you rightly said, the next time the debt to be 16 billion. Euros, only the first step you made with this decision. You've taken on a debt you can't pay. You undertake debt in conditions where there is no growth and the forecast for the next three years is 0.5. What are you paying for, Mr. Kanev? You engage the next governments to deal with your financial, currently bankrupt policy. [[Shouting from GERB.]] That's what you're doing! Future governments, future governments and future generations, so do not represent debt and life on loan as stability. Because those who borrowed from the banks saw how far they got.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u301	What about the ones who broke the bank?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u302	Second line, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u303	Dear Mr. Kanev, please specify which majority you are talking about.... what voted for the programme declaration and voted for the government on 7 November, or this much wider majority, which currently supports the decision to ratify this debt. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]] Please then specify exactly what reforms you are talking about after you supported a budget of 2.5 billion. a deficit for this year and a forecast for a deficit of 2 billion for the next year, and a forecast for a deficit of billion and 800 for the next year, and today you supported a nominal increase in the external debt of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 by nearly 4 billion. lv. Where are these reforms? Please, Mr. Kanev, tell me when you are sincere when you announced that the main priority in drawing up the government is to remove BSP and DPS from power, or when you voted with them today? Or perhaps you were sincere when you explained to your constituents that you would stop GERB from power and not coalition with them, or today when you hugged each other? But when there is so much money on one side, it is clear what the result will be and what your behavior will be. The only good thing is that all this came out and it came out. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u304	Were those the arguments?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u305	Third line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Dear Mr. Kanev, because there is talk of sincerity here, of a majority in today's vote, you neglected to mention that perhaps two weeks ago we voted everyone here in terms of judicial reform and there was also a majority. Does that mean they were insincere, voting then, announcing that they supported this reform? Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u307	It was free then!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u308	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u309	Mr. Lazarov, as I said, it is necessary to dispel all doubts. Your line was largely to Mr. Boychev. We will enjoy everyone's support for any reasonable decision. I didn't accidentally thank my colleagues at the DPS. I will be very happy to thank you, too, at any moment, when you support a sensible and responsible decision for Bulgaria. The majority in parliament is not an exclusion factor. It is a factor guaranteeing stability. When I say that there should be guarantees for the preservation of the majority, I say that there should be guarantees for the majority as a factor for Bulgaria to be managed firmly and not as a factor for someone to be excluded from the ability to behave wisely. Let's still make a difference between these things. But let's go to the important question why has it proved to be responsible to discuss new debt instruments? Why was it responsible with a three-year horizon to consider covering future deficits? Because both we and you know perfectly well that deficits will exist, the question is that they decrease. How did it turn out that Bulgaria has lost one of its few serious advantages in eight years, the advantage of extremely low external debt? I will respond directly to you. We are discussing debt, because society, state, institutions and our business are operating extremely inefficiently inefficiently. [[BSP LB.]] Because the logical influx of foreign investments in the pre-accession period and in the first years after accession has become disappointment and despair, it has become a dirty word for investors, [[strong noise and lines from BSP LB. The statement continues in constant calls, noise and lines by BSP LB]] a symbol of corruption, a symbol of a broken justice system, a symbol of a missing legal framework. For this reason Bulgaria has debts, for this reason Bulgaria has deficits. We can cover the deficit for both 2016 and 2017 with the instrument Mr. Goranov is proposing to us and which we are voting on today. However, the continued increase in debt and deficit we cannot cover in this way. We can only cover it with deep reforms of justice, public administration, financial regulators, with reform of institutions to stop leaks. Because we really can't fill a broken register of debts. In the name of this reform, once again, I say that Bulgaria should have a majority of four parties in four years. [[(BSP LB: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u310	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mr. Mihov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u311	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers! I think more than a week on the subject has been said enough. [[Shouting from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] I think that enough has gone on for one week, we have listened to the arguments of the unsuccessful ministers, perhaps from the most disastrous government in Bulgaria. For this reason, I propose that we put an end to the debate and move on to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u312	Inverse opinion Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u313	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, we are currently discussing and voting on a future absolutely direct unconstitutional act of the National Assembly, and I think you know this very well. I'm making a reverse proposal, discuss it even better, pour your souls out, do not in this way silence and make another attempt to silence the opposition of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Noise and lines.]] It's not right in a parliamentary republic! At least we claim to be one and to participate in such a National Assembly, but here the ruling majority colleagues behave differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u314	You have a very short memory, colleague!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u315	I put to the vote the proposal to put an end to the debate on the draft discussion. They voted 203 MPs: 156 against 47, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Debates closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the technical proposals, such as editorial proposals made by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, which, I recall, are art. 1 shall be a single member, and Article 1 shall be a single member. 2 of the bill to be separate in paragraph only in Final provision, as this bill should normally appear. Vote 215 MPs: 157 against 47, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Revoting wants Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u316	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers! Madam President, you have put a vote on a proposal on two texts of the law. The rules in this regard are explicit....................................................................................................... We had some objections from the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u317	Mr. Mikov, not only two texts, but also by the name of the law, it was reported, so the proposal was made, so I put it to the vote. No explicit proposal for a separate vote has been received. As far as Mr. Kadiev's proposal is concerned, instead of writing down the number Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 84 of our Rules of Procedure: The text of the Treaty cannot be amended under the International Treaty. This proposal is therefore inadmissible and I will not put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u318	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u319	You'll have a negative vote. I put to the vote the full revision of the bill reported by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and the adopted decision on editorial-technical proposals on the text. Vote 218 MPs: 159, against 48, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Colleagues, first negative vote, Mrs. Manolova wanted the floor before, was second, now I'll give her the floor. Mr. Velizar Enchev wanted a statement, I'll give him a negative vote. For the third one, you're gonna have to work it out. First negative vote, Mrs. Maya Manolova. [[Noise and lines. The MPs from the parliamentary groups of GERB, DPS and the Reformation bloc come out of the plenary. Commendations: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]] Colleagues, please take your seats! It is not convenient to speak to a Member of the National Assembly while such a movement reigns in the Chamber. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u320	I'll wait for them to come out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u321	Colleagues, I would like to invite you for a little more tolerance to the MPs who have expressed a desire for a negative vote. [[The National Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups of GERB, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Reformation bloc are talking with the ministers and leaving the Chamber together.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u322	Honourable Members, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers who do not respect the parliamentary procedure! From the whole of today's many-hour parliamentary debate, we have never understood how the four commercial banks were selected and what the commissions are for them, but we have found out how to shop for MP banks and votes for them. The election of parliamentary votes unfortunately proved to be too cheap. Finally, we witnessed whole parliamentary groups competing, even fighting over dividend. Report "The race between the group of DPS and the ABB about who first to support this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u323	Colleagues, I'm at least asking that there be no MPs in front of the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u324	Against the backdrop of this shameful bargain, Bulgarian citizens have nothing left but to pay over the next 30 years, but also to watch how each of the parliamentary groups will cash in today's shameful vote. Dear Members of Parliament who supported this shameful duty! People will remember your faces and we will try to remember the names of the MPs from GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the DPS and the ABB who voted for this shameful debt. These names will enter every Bulgarian home and you will be very ashamed of it! I also address President Plevneliev, who vetoed a year ago a debt of 1 billion. Dear Mr. President, you have 16 times more reasons to veto this shameful and disgraceful huge loan. Do it because there is neither investment nor economic growth nor transparency in it! If you do not, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will address the Constitutional Court. There are enough violations of the parliamentary procedure by both Goranov and the government and the leading meeting today and the National Assembly in voting on this shameful debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u326	We will fight to the last from the shoulders of Bulgarian citizens to fall the burden of this disgraceful duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u327	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u328	We expect from the president, if he doesn't want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u329	Thirty seconds you're talking more, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u330	If he does not wish his image and his name to appear among those who are accomplices to this debt, to impose a veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u331	Thank you. We understand your point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u332	And then we will count who is who in the Bulgarian Parliament. [[The national representatives of the parliamentary groups of BSP LB and Ataka are chanting the same inscriptions.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u333	Mr. Enchev, you have the floor for a negative vote. The ministers are gone, you remembered to call for resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u334	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we have witnessed the purchase and sale of whole parliamentary groups and, first of all, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u335	And the ABB!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u336	This parliamentary group, this party, which a year ago stabbed in the back of its coalition partner BSP, today stuck a knife in the back of the Bulgarian nation. [[Applause from BSP LB and "Attack."]] Let this be well known by the voters of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. In my previous speech last week, I stated that I cannot believe it again, that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which expresses the interests of some of the poorest, the most tortured Bulgarian citizens, will betray them. Well, I recognize, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS, who are absent from this room. I repeat once again: you have not only sold your constituents, you have betrayed the Bulgarian nation. What about the ABB movement or the ABB party?! She simply cheated on the alphabetical truth that in politics morality should stand first. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by BSP LB and "Attack."]] I regret to say that colleagues from BBC or BBC have shown their true nature, for which I have long hesitated, but I no longer have any doubts. Perhaps the greatest disgrace is in those who abstained. Here Mr. Simeonov stood and said, for which I congratulate him that he will vote against. Is that right? But during the vote, after your votes were devalued because of the conduct of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, you were afraid for your place in Bulgarian politics and in this Parliament [[Applause and laughter from the parliamentary groups of BSP LB and "Attack"]] , as a disgraceful vote, you abstentioned. However, let your constituents see what you are talking about and vote another!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u337	Who the fuck did they pick?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u338	Finally, I must say the most important thing for those absent from the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u339	Eight seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u340	Did those in the Reformation bloc ask their right-wing voters if they supported such a vote?! And most importantly: the most important person absent today is Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. It was because of him that 16 billion was because of his presidential candidacy. [[Applause from the parliamentary groups of BSP LB and "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u341	Third negative vote, Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u342	As I have said more than once in this tribune, if you had listened to me in the last ten years, things would have been much easier in Bulgaria. Here's direct evidence of what I just said in this room. General Rumen Radev "The Chief of the Air Force," says: "We are late with the new fighters. "The next step was to bring them into the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly. Is it true what I was telling you?! Yes, it is true with this money will be bought old American planes and it is a military loan! Those who voted for abstention and abstention are together. Today is indeed a historic day when it became clear that Bulgaria will be governed by Coalition GERB, Reformers, Patriotic Front, DPS, ABB, BDZ. That's the truth, and she can't hide anymore! The abstinence grips do not pass because they only show that you had conspired in advance and that the support of the DPS is related to the restraint of the PF. From now on, if anyone can accept that this government is without the support of the DPS, then it is an exceptional gullible person or lives somewhere very far away, for example on some island and does not know what is happening in Bulgaria. I call on all Bulgarians to boycott from now on categorically, clearly and without absolutely no hesitation this government, because it leads Bulgaria to a gulf! [[Relations from the Patriotic Front.]] And that will become clear again, as I have predicted many things. Once again, it will become clear, and I will not need to go out and say yes, I was right. Bulgarians, the sooner you rise to protest and bring down this government, the better for Bulgaria! [[Applause from the parliamentary groups of BSP LB and "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u343	Personal explanation of Mr. Valeri Simeonov, mentioned by name in the statement of Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u344	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have to take the floor to protect my name. Once again, I was robbed by the MP Mr. Velizar Enchev. In this regard, Mr. Enchev, if I may, one finding. As an anchor at Skat TV, you were honorable. Unfortunately, your attempt to fly on your own in politics has to do with dishonesty. You lied here once again. Once again, you lied! There is a recording that can be played, reproduced, and you will hear what Valeri Simeonov said from this tribune that the Patriotic Frant will hold back. The rest is part of your extremely unclean campaign where you want to throw mud on the Patriotic Front and thus you yourself in some unexplained way to gain political ratings. That's not how it works, Mr. Enchev! It's embarrassing, it's a disgrace to your age, it's a disgrace to what you did at Skat TV!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-02-25.u345	Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
