ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] The new summer session of the Forty-third National Assembly begins. Before I offer to your attention the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 22 April 2015, traditionally at the beginning of each session we will hear the declarations of parliamentary parties on behalf of the parliamentary groups, which are also traditionally broadcast directly by the National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. 1. Point 1 provides for the Second Voting of the Bill amending the Investment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer of the Council of Ministers, first draft. Second draft by Plamen Manushev, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov. 3. First vote on the Bill on the European Protection Order. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Continued from the previous session. 6. First vote on bills to amend the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. There are three bills. Exporters: Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs, first draft; second draft by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015, third draft by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015. A enviable technique for changes. [[Radio.]] 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The draft programme provided for the first item for Thursday, but after a discussion by the Conference of Presidents, we agreed that this bill should be debated and voted as the first item on Friday, 24 April 2015. 8. Second vote on the Law Supplement to the Law on Political Parties. Importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. This point becomes the first item for Thursday, and not as in your distributed Project is provided for the second point. 9. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2013, and a Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the months January 11. Second vote on the Energy Efficiency Bill. 12. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the usual day Please vote on the Programme Project. Vote 167 MPs: 146, against 6, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. There are two proposals made in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the agenda for this week. The first at the time is from Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes to include a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Protection of Competition, inv. No 454-01-36, submitted on 6 November 2014 by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. Mrs. Ninova, we're listening to your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! We propose to look again at the Law on Protection of Competition, better known between us and in society as the Law on Trade Chains. The aim we set with this Bill is to protect Bulgarian producers, to guarantee the jobs of Bulgarians who work in Bulgarian companies and produce Bulgarian goods, to provide more revenue in the budget. The means to achieve this goal are the texts we propose in the Law, and they are: to guarantee the Bulgarian producers equal conditions of production and trade with those of foreign investors. We say that currently foreign investors, specifically the retail chains enjoy a dominant position in the market and abuse the Bulgarian producers, including they do not comply with the requirements of current Bulgarian laws. For example, to declare their accounts at the end of each year in order to have transparency and visibility of what is happening in the financials of the retail chains. The texts we offer guarantee equal market conditions for Bulgarian and foreign traders. For example, we prohibit the placing on the Bulgarian producers as conditions for payment of fees against which no services are provided. Say, with what is a milk producer in Stara Zagora obliged to pay a fee for opening a store in Burgas, for which he does not receive any service in Stara Zagora?! I would like to tell you that this Law has suffered an interesting movement in the previous parliament. We accepted it at second reading and it was returned with the president's veto. We couldn't watch the veto after that. But it is supported by Association "Produced in Bulgaria." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Colleagues, these are the Association of Traders of Goods for Children, Essential Oils, Perfumery and Cosmetics...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u3	You're running out of time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u4	I'm done. ...chocolate and sugar products, meat processors, milk processors, the wine-growing chamber and the food supplements.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u5	Thank you, but there are probably other MPs who are familiar with the support that this Law meets.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u6	On behalf of these people, I appeal to support this Law in the name of protection of Bulgarian production, the Bulgarian budget and the jobs of Bulgarians in these companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u7	Colleagues, we are voting on the proposal made to include this Bill and its first reading in plenary this week. Vote 164 MPs: 80 against 17, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Procedure Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u8	Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote, as some of my fellow Members have not been able to vote. Once again, I would like to clarify that this law is in the interest of Bulgarian producers and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. It's a re-vote. They voted 171 MPs: 85, against 20, abstention 66. Cancel the vote. Mr. Kazak has failed to vote. He has a technical problem with the console. It's a re-vote. Vote 180 MPs: 91, against 24, abstention 65. The motion is accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure is Mr. Chukolov, who proposes to include in the weekly program a draft decision on the recognition of genocide over Armenians in the Ottoman Empire 1915. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose that our proposal for a decision be first on Friday 24 April. On April 24 the Armenians in Bulgaria and the Armenians around the world noted this tragic date for them, which actually embodied for them the migration that this people had due to the genocide exercised on them. This is the first genocide in the 20th century. Then, following the example of the then Ottoman Empire, Hitler conducted the Holocaust. Dear colleagues, on tomorrow, the Austrian Parliament will adopt such a declaration. On April 24th, at a deliberate meeting, the German Parliament will adopt a decision similar to what we propose. A few days ago, the European Parliament again encouraged Turkey, European countries to recognise the genocide committed on this old people. We have a duty to them. You know, they're also our associates, our constituents, each of you has friends Armenians, maybe there are Armenians in this room, and I wasn't particularly interested. Honourable Members and Madam President, my proposal is that this decision should enter into our program as the first item of Friday's program on this date, on 24 April, and thus show our sympathy for them, our respect and worship to their feat. The solution is quite simple: The Bulgarian National Assembly officially recognises the genocide over the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and announces 24 April as a Day of Memorial of the Victims. His motives were written by professors. This decision has also been reviewed by lawyers who say that this is impeccable and in complete harmony with similar decisions and declarations in other European countries. Such decisions, just to be clear, have been adopted by major European countries such as France, Russia. More than 20 countries have, in fact, supported this in the European Union. My request to you is to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u11	I put to the vote the proposal to include the draft decision in our weekly programme. They voted 158 MPs: for 72, against 31, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u12	My fellow Members, we have no right to abstain here when it comes to such an important matter. You know, these days a hundred Bulgarian intellectuals also came up with such a proposal to accept such a declaration. When I look at their names, there are sympathizers of ours, and there are sympathizers of all groups represented in parliament. They are not only of Armenian origin, they are people who have realized the grief of this people. I was just told that this morning at the Conference of Presidents, there was some idea of a contact group to address this issue and come up with a solution. Let's assume this point will be first on Friday. There is plenty of time for us in this House to gather today, on tomorrow and indeed the Bulgarian National Assembly to come up with such a declaration. Believe me, this will also raise Parliament's rating, it will actually show that we are people who listen to their voters. My request to you is that you do not abstain and support this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u13	Mr. Chukolov, you've been misinformed. No such subject has been discussed by the Conference of Presidents. I invite you personally to attend to inform yourself firsthand of what is happening there. It's a re-vote. They voted 177 MPs: 105, against 31, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 8 to 21 April 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Importers are Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints is accompanying. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manuscripts. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. A bill to supplement the War Veterans Act. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Health and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The importer is Volen Siderov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers are Georgi Andonov, Maria Belova and Eugenia Angelova. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The bill is assigned to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and to the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The importer is Rumen Hristov. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. A bill to supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision to take an act from the Protocol to Convention No 29 of the International Labour Organisation on Forced Labour and Recommendation No 203 of the International Labour Organisation on the taking of additional measures to effectively counter forced labour. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The draft decision is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Bill on the closure of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importer is Velizar Enchev. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. Project for a declaration in memory of the victims of the genocide against the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. The importer was Velizar Enchev. The draft declaration is allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. (confidential). Importer is the Council of Ministers. The draft decision is allocated to the Internal Security and Public Order Commission, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer is Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for extradition. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iceland, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the NATO Agency, on the other hand, on cooperation in the implementation of projects for the extension of the Air Command and Control System (ASS). Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. The draft is allocated to both the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Kazakhstan for legal aid in criminal matters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The bill is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria. Importers are Maria Belova and Valentin Vassilev. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. One message: the National Statistical Institute received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing statistical research results on consumer price indices for March 2015. The material is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. We'll start with a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, my procedure is in connection with the weekly programme. I propose that point five of the same, namely the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act be replaced by point seven, which is for Friday, namely the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. My motives are as follows: because at point fifth between first and second readings in § 60 of the Transitional and Final Provisions it concerns restrictions on ownership and use of agricultural land for companies under art. Art. 110 and Art. 110 263 of the same Bill. Point 7 clearly concerns the same matter, namely an extension of the period from 1 May to 1 October "for imposing sanctions on commercial companies. I believe that it is resonant to first vote on item seven, namely the general framework and the extension of the time limit for non-imposition of sanctions and then to be able to assess how to vote on the second reading of point fifth of the current programme. That's why I'm offering their exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u15	Mr. Popov, in the form of a reverse opinion in the original Project for Program, the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land was envisaged as point one for Thursday. Following objections from the Conference of Presidents this morning that the Committee on Agriculture and Food will meet this afternoon and by tomorrow will not have expired 24 hours of the Commission report, this constitutes an obstacle under the rules of our Rules, so before Friday the first reading of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land cannot be seen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u16	Then I suggest point five goes further back to watch first point seven again on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u17	Do you make the procedure point five to be after the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land? Thank you. I put this proposal to the vote. Vote 154 MPs: 128 against 3, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u18	Madam President, I'd like a re-vote. I don't know why you all thought point five could go in the end. I would like to inform the MPs that by the end of April, if we do not adopt this bill, there will be serious harmful consequences for public companies, which all of you of the parliamentary groups, you know. For a third week now, for one reason or another, this point cannot pass, and now we have all decided again that it is not so important and can go back. I'm asking you to rethink what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u19	We didn't say it wasn't important. We have another plenary week, and if we have to have an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday, but because of the relationship between the two bills for me personally, without manipulating, it makes sense in this proposal. It's a re-vote. They voted 147 MPs: 109, against 12, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! I would also like to make a procedural proposal regarding our agenda. Firstly, I would like to thank all MPs from the various parliamentary groups for supporting the proposal to be put on the agenda the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition. I see that we are taking the decisions by consensus and I hope that this is a good sign of our work this week. I am making the following proposal: let this Law, which was included on the agenda, be item one on Thursday. I see we have a certain point two on Thursday in the program. I propose that this bill be item one on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u21	We have a point one for Thursday, Mr. Georgiev. We have a decision to make. I've announced it. This will be the Law on Supplement to the Law on Political Parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u22	Then let's make it point three on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u23	There are other numbers of dots left. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Is there a counteroffer? We are voting on the proposal that the Bill, which was included with a deliberate decision in our weekly programme, should be item three for Thursday. They voted 146 MPs: 45, against 61, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to our schedule for this week. Before that, please turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television, respectively the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio. STATEMENTS FROM THE NAME OF THE PARLIAMENT GROUPS ON THE NEW PLENNERARY SERVE OF FOURTHRIDES AND THE THREE PEOPLE'S MEETINGS On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I sincerely believe that Christ's resurrection makes us better, more human and more responsible. Solving the big issues in front of our country is related not only to the physical survival of the Bulgarians, but also to the preservation of the Bulgarian spirit, so there can be no good solution beyond the context of the moral upliftment of the nation. First of all, the legislative actions that we will take from GERB in the new plenary session cannot and should not be considered outside a future, healthy legal macrogram, which will also ensure a successful and long life. The challenge for us is to provide such a legal basis that makes it impossible to retreat from reforms in the future, because the generation of good ideas goes through the update of legislation in the Bulgarian Parliament, otherwise we go into the field of unproductive talking. With our legislative activity at the Forty-third National Assembly, we can provide a good perspective for development mainly in the field of energy, economy, health, social policy, education, security, the judiciary, agriculture and ecology. It is unacceptable to talk about development and reforms, while not being able to take sustainable measures to clean riverbeds and thousands of Bulgarian citizens to be flooded in every heavy rain. Therefore, with the amendments to the Water Act, the state will create control mechanisms for monitoring, control and adequate response to all water facilities in the country. There is no one to believe that we are seeking to increase the intellectual power of the nation when our education has become the largest experimental laboratory in which everyone has done whatever they want while they have power. That is why we will continue the work on the adoption of the Law on school and pre-school education. Through it we will provide equal and quality access to education of all children of Bulgaria. The undisputed political and economic success of the second government of Boyko Borisov so far is the reimbursement of payments for all European funds. The task in front of the cabinet is to make up for the abandoned by the Oresharski experiment. After all major public projects were stopped or seriously delayed for a year and a half, Bulgaria is once again building roads, treatment plants, sports halls and others, thus regaining the right to benefit from European solidarity. In parallel, a remarkable stabilisation of the financial sector was achieved. Thanks to GERB financial experts, the government managed to control the crisis KTB, which has been raging for months because of the disastrous inaction of the previous government. The government and parliament were able to provide a working mechanism by which the depositors in the bank received their legal deposits and the public was reassured. In parallel, action was taken against attempts to plunder KTB's assets. In the last few months, measures have been taken to stop smuggling and VAT fraud and excise duties. The fight against financial crimes and the grey sector are already giving good results, with only for the first quarter the Ministry of Finance with its revenue agencies collecting 1 billion. 200 million. lv. More than the first quarter of 2014 and a surplus of around 250 million has been reported for the first time since 2009. lv. As President of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I guarantee that we will support the legislation and all the legal changes that the government will propose to increase the collection rate in the budget and in the fight against the grey sector in Bulgaria. With regard to social policy, we should no longer strive only to catch up and only partially compensate for people's social needs. Good social policy is another strategy for advance care for the population and prevention of sharp social problems. I'm sure we're on the right track right now, and we have that direction. The great subject of national security in our country has many faces. The most sensitive for people is domestic crime, which we are obliged to work actively on. The public interest in solving problems with corruption on the high levels of power has also increased. It is therefore important that there are working systems in the country to prevent and counter the abuse of citizens through a good legal framework. That is why we will continue the work on the adoption of the package of laws concerning the security sector. At the same time, GERB will strongly support the government's vision of judicial reform, because it is the foundation of the functioning of the entire country. We will propose the establishment of a Commission for Amendments to the Constitution, we will seek the political and public consensus on the stability and sustainability of the state by achieving European standards in the judiciary. Since Bulgaria is a member of the European Union, agriculture in Bulgaria is often seen as survival and development within the framework of another European project. This is why the debate on the sector in Bulgaria is often shifted from the debate on access to European projects and transparency of funding procedures. GERB is working extremely actively on structuring lasting policies in this sector. An example of this is the finalisation of a package of legislative changes that will be tabled very soon in Parliament and aimed at limiting illegal logging and interrupting harmful practices in forests. As a responsible coalition partner, we will give our principled support for the ideas of changes in the field of health, with which we will support actions to stabilise the sector. In the foreign policy plan Bulgaria is in a complex international environment, close to military conflicts and countries in economic and political crisis. Despite various assessments of what is happening between Ukraine and Russia, we are united on the need to maintain a high level of national security and defend national interest. There is no way I can pass up the subject of refugee flows, which often unjustly introduces public psychosis. In recent months, we have shown that we can be tolerant. Bulgaria came out of international isolation, which was placed by the Oresharski cabinet and today our statesmen are active participants in all European and international forums, as well as well welcomed everywhere in Europe and around the world. People have seen that the current government is not afraid to start changes, the effect of which is not always seen in a short time. The reforms we are betting on are healing, and not only in the short term, but also in the medium and long term. Because the reforms we seek have no alternative if we want Bulgaria to develop. I am hopeful that the majority of Bulgarian politicians are already aware that we cannot have lasting political success without the state achieving lasting economic, social and institutional progress. We are therefore called on to work in ever closer cooperation on the main national priorities, regardless of the different positions on the political map. We expect in parliament to dominate a spirit of understanding and consensus because this is the only formula for the good of Bulgaria. We at GERB give signs to society that we will not keep the problems of ordinary people quiet, nor hide the truth about the state of the country. Because we rely on public support. We will move towards legislative initiatives with full awareness of the huge responsibility we take, first of all, to the people living in Bulgaria and then to our European partners. GERB has always put the Bulgarian national interest in the foreground and therefore we do not accept incorrect reproaches for staggering one way or the other. The direction is one, and it must be irreversible "good legislation for quality and rapid reforms." There is unanimity between the managing partners on this issue. We at GERB will continue to welcome sensible legislative ideas and initiatives and will support them with our votes in plenary. Finally, and last but not least, elections are coming for local authorities. This is a good reason to discuss how we could expand the authority of the local authorities and ensure its smooth functioning. I would like to call on the Members of the National Assembly not to succumb to temptations to make an appeal for the local vote from the platform of parliament. Let each of us make our contribution to working regional policies rather than abuse our top legislative body as speakers in favour of one party campaign or another. The election campaign cannot and should not become a source of tension but should be a generator of real policies. Traditionally GERB will lead a positive campaign aimed at explaining our policies without using negativity to our opponents. We call on all parties to follow our example and to conduct a campaign that suits a country member of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Next is a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria - Mr. Mikov, Chairman of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u26	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Happy new Third Session of this National Assembly, loaded with expectations from Bulgarian citizens for a better life. In the last two sessions, the most repeated word was "reform" to the point that people perceive repeating this word as tightening belts, such as limiting payments, such as cuts, such as unemployment. It is interesting to find that the economy has achieved a remarkable stabilisation. In fact, this was achieved as the forecast on the basis of which the 2015 budget was drawn up, was significantly reduced twice. The real growth of gross domestic product in 2014 was 1.7%, and the forecast was reduced to 0.8%, with the only reason to freeze those 14 payments that affect children, mothers, elderly people, people with disabilities all those who in the poorest country of the European Union live the poorest. And now with an accounting trick in the updated forecast, the spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance achieved the remarkable stabilization of the economy, announced just now. In fact, the remarkable stabilisation of the economy is about like the international isolation of the previous government. It is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, that a country be in international isolation. This is absurd to anyone who deals with and knows foreign policy. But in fact Bulgaria has quite severe problems at the moment in relations, including with neighbouring Balkan countries. On the one hand, the construction of the fence creates certain attitudes and relations with Turkey. On the other hand, the talks of today's prime minister on Greece for years, the threats to the Bulgarians that Bulgaria would become as bad as in Greece, the relations on the occasion of the introduced new tax put new barriers between us and our neighbours here in the Balkans. What are our neighbors doing? They achieve alliances to change strategic infrastructure routes in Southeast Europe. That's what we saw at the Budapest meeting. There was seen how Bulgaria was excluded from the discussion on this topic and how traditional transit gas was to be excluded on the one hand because of its geostrategic situation, to become a small consumer because of its destroyed industry. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this session will also continue the low income policy in the country, which will increase inequality in favour of capital and labour. That is why we from BSP left Bulgaria in the coming days will propose again, after it is claimed for one or two billion overexecution of the budget, for a surplus of 200 million. BGN, working poor to be exempt from tax. These 10%, 38, 36 BGN, which were taken from you this year, to be given to them, because, again, it is about one bread every day in the family of people who work with the minimum wage. We already have a remarkable stabilization, don't we?! We've got surpluses, haven't we?! Let us unite on this issue and return to the poor workers what you took lightly in the autumn when the budget was being drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to insist on urgent measures in the field of tourism and agriculture, which will compensate the consequences of sanctions against Russia, against the Russian Federation and the imposed contractions, of which the most severe consequences I dare say in the European Union suffers Bulgaria, consequences without compensation for the producers, without compensation for the tourism industry, without compensation for the industrial and machinery industries, the markets of Russia for which the last remnants of the Bulgarian electric car and motor industry have already been closed. The government and the ruling majority don't care. We will continue to ask these questions. Apparently, right-wing policy is also being promoted in healthcare, which makes it more and more inaccessible. More and more dominated the paid trade in human life and health. We will strongly oppose this session. The proposals have been submitted and we will defend them at the second reading of the law. It will be the same in education. Please, Madam President, do not hold any meetings so that media and citizenship do not understand what is happening in the Educational Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u27	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u28	To hold their meetings in the National Assembly. This right-wing attempt to turn education into a commodity to be done through the eyes of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Dear Members of Parliament, we will also have the same understanding when we stand up for the protection of Bulgarian producers, a position which we have consistently, which we have proposed today and will be happy to show together, and not only to say that we are defending Bulgarian producers, especially now, in the crisis, when we feel little European solidarity as compensation for the consequences of the crisis around Ukraine. We will continue to defend legislation limiting monopolies and the dominant position of the market because it is daily, killing the small and medium Bulgarian entrepreneur on an hourly basis. Honourable Members of Parliament, we will continue to defend the submitted bills, which must protect citizens from abuse by the strong in these relations...................the private judicial contractors and the banks. After all, we believe that BSP left Bulgaria will continue to be a consistent opposition, but opposition with another left-wing policy needed by Bulgaria and its development, because the demographic crisis, the exit of the country's most quality Bulgarian citizens will continue to give way to Bulgaria under the leadership of this government. Of course, we are sure that this is the only alternative to today's right-wing governance and the sooner Bulgarian citizens understand it, the further Bulgaria will have another perspective for development. Thank you. [[Loud applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. As far as your call for permanent committees, honourable Members, is concerned, this is a traditional practice. And under your leadership of the National Assembly, Mr. Mikov, committees have held such outings. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Of course, on agenda items that have been discussed there. I didn't know you were doing this to shut down these committees. I'm informed. I am following the work of the Commission, which is public. Media are accessible and can reflect its activities. Next is a statement from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Mestan is absent. Mr. Kazak is giving me a sign that they want to make a statement after the Reformation Bloc group. Mr. Kanev, are you ready? Come on in on behalf of the Reformation Bloc.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u30	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Three months ago, at the opening of the previous session of the National Assembly, our position was related to the key priorities of the forty-third parliament during the period until its summer vacation. Today, in the middle of this period, we can safely say that perhaps not at the best pace, but undoubtedly the current Parliament is working and fulfilling its priorities, to take into account and appreciate what has been done in the field of energy, the security sector, the emergency legislation relating to the bankruptcy of the Corporate Commercial Bank and, above all, in the sphere of stabilization of Bulgaria internationally, the exit from international isolation, the placing of Bulgaria in its place as a key ally and the key representative of the modern Western world of the most difficult geographical location at this time, despite the fact that some of the Bulgarian MPs are actively involved in the information war, which one of the participants in today's conflict of the northeast is leading against the entire European Union. The upcoming three months, however, will give the big answers for the current government and, to a large extent, for the immediate development of the Bulgarian statehood; they will respond to the overall legislation in the sector "Secure"; for the package of health changes; for the process of selection of key control bodies and regulators and the start of the process of selecting a new management of the Commission for Protection of Competition. We must be aware that if there is not such a serious change as has been made in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and no such agreement is reached on the need for change, the prospects for developing a competitive economy, for reducing corruption in public procurement in Bulgaria are zero. It will answer, above all, the two key issues of legislation on balancing the pension system and, above all, the prerequisite for the effectiveness and success of all these changes, which is a successful judicial reform and a successful policy to curb corruption in the public sector. Our proposal is to do this through a firm start to reform, with bold constitutional changes. There is no doubt that this is a national priority, that this is the will of Bulgarian citizens. We see that even frank representatives of the status quo in the judiciary see no choice for themselves but to agree and seek a compromise close to the maximum radical solutions. I believe the National Assembly should be bolder. It must also lay a hand on the sacred cows in the judicial system after it has taken the path of constitutional change. We know what the opinion of Bulgarian citizens is, what they want. The answer we have to give is where we are and whether we deserve what they received just six months ago. The forty-third parliament in six months has proved that it performs its functions well. The forty-third parliament is not an obedient instrument in the hands of the executive, as many previous folk meetings, but it is also not a brake to the necessary changes and body to store the status quo. The forty-third parliament is holding a real debate, a real clash of ideas, which often slows down its work, but undoubtedly increases the quality of the decisions taken. The forty-third Parliament has real control functions over the executive, of which real positive changes followed, including the non-compliance with certain legislative initiatives that were dangerous. He showed the ability to reach key national consents, showed natural, at times sharp contradictions between the majority government and useful moments of compromise with the opposition representatives. But the forty-third parliament here I address especially the voters of the Reformation bloc, is not and will not be a revolutionary convention. This National Assembly is conservative and controversial. It is called to seek compromise because the Bulgarian society is very divided, and it must seek compromise. It is time to put an end to the sharp opposition in Bulgarian politics, it is time to put an end to hate language, it is time to have intolerance not to our political opponent, but to every corrupt politician, whether from the opposition or from the majority. It is time on the path of judicial reform to create instruments by which the government will be equally determined both to the ruling and to the opposition. It is time to get rid of corruption, not threaten society, that coming to power of one party or another is dangerous for him. However, none of the parties are dangerous. Many of their representatives have already proved that they are dangerous to democracy in Bulgaria. We need to look ahead. There are decisions that we will not make within this session, but we need to lay the basis for them. First of all, these are combined, simultaneous, internally coordinated educational reform and labour market reform. And if we have talked about educational reform for years at least at the level of the political language we have all expressed our will to reform education more than once, there is only the question why there are no cases behind this will, but for the reform of the labour market we continue to remain silent. But along with the risks faced by our financial system, this is the second big risk, the second big hole of the Bulgarian economy. It is necessary not only to follow the recommendation of the European Commission and to look more closely at the Economic Equality Report; we need to see at the same time the needs of the most vulnerable, the weakest members of the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian business, to give an answer why there is both acute unemployment and acute shortage of staff and labour. This is the answer that we owe to Bulgarian citizens and it goes through a reform of education, but also through a bold reform of the labour market of the type that Germany passed nearly ten years ago. Colleagues, I know we're all thinking about local elections. I know that no matter what we say, this tribune will be used to campaign for the local elections. And what is worse is the state power and the opposition's resources and the administration's resources to one degree or another will be involved in the upcoming clash for local elections. These are realities, bad realities, but they're ahead of us. However, I call on you to have a political sense, because while we are thinking about local elections, we are thinking about our own jobs. The people who will vote in the local elections, however, do not think about our jobs. They don't care how our parties perform in the local elections. They think about the jobs in their municipality, about the opportunities it will give for economic development, about the obstacles it will remove in front of the local small business, about the administrative appointments it can make either by the outrageous guerrilla sign we know, or in a modern, modern, European way. So, without giving up thinking about the elections, this is part of our work, let us first think not about our jobs, but about the jobs of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition "Patriotic Front" Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that, at the beginning of each parliamentary session, it is appropriate for each parliamentary group to first report on what is being fulfilled or on what remains to be achieved by its election promises, respectively from its programme, and secondly, to identify the tasks on which it will work as a priority. And, of course, it was good to give an assessment of the atmosphere and its interaction with other political parties and coalitions in the National Assembly. So my brief exhibition will be built exactly according to this scheme. First of all, the Patriotic Front must take account of the commitments made to its voters. For the short period of the work of the National Assembly, and most of all from the expired session, we must note that the Patriotic Front managed to achieve some, albeit not very large, of the commitments made in the programme of the Patriotic Front [[shows it]] which I introduced you to on the first day of the National Assembly. Some other commitments have not been made, unfortunately, I will have to mention them as well. What I think is a success not only of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, but also of the entire National Assembly, as well as of the entire Bulgarian society, in the first place, is the process of removing the personnel of the unconstitutional and anti-Bulgarian party DPS from power. I believe that this process is going well and we are entering the phase when it needs to be completed. The second thing I think we can boast about is the large-scale revision of energy, which is carried out both by the executive power and by the National Assembly. Thanks to this revision, as you know, the first great success of the current management has been achieved, the re-negotiation of the prices for the purchase of electricity from the so-called American power stations. The effect of this re-negotiation will be clear and clear at the end of the year and is determined in the order of about 100 million leva. Thanks to the newly adopted Energy Act, which took place with the full support of the Group of the Patriotic Front, we will be able to save several hundred million wrong money, which has been paid to the so-called factory, so-called "Cogenerations" - part of the RES and so on. In other words, much of the taps from which energy was drained from which the well-being and funds of the Bulgarian people would be drained will be closed. This is a small success in which our society will have the opportunity to be convinced in the coming months. Another very serious success, and not only thanks to our consistent activity, but also to the international situation, is the end of Bulgaria's opportunity to be enslaved with another pseudo giant energy project called South Stream. Once again: congratulations on ending this disastrous for the Bulgarian economy project! I believe that with the change of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the new composition, we already have representatives who will work responsibly, people professionals, people who are well aware of the matter, who have nothing to do with the compositions so far, and therefore we can expect positive results from the work of this body. The next thing that I think is also a positive achievement, and not only on the Patriotic Front, I will always repeat, but also on the combined efforts of the majority of colleagues in the National Assembly, this is a relief of the regime for the completion of security facilities along the border between Bulgaria and Turkey, which aim to limit the large-scale refugee flow, which, as we know from the last days, is growing more and more. I believe that these reliefs give the government opportunities in a rather rapid and purely administratively unburdened way to end this programme. I immediately open the clamp that, after all, this process has been going through a delay for more than two and a half months now, and that the Patriotic Front will monitor very carefully the implementation of this fundamental commitment, which has been made personally by the Prime Minister and which we have taken to our voters. The Moratorium, which was imposed by the National Assembly on timber exports, is also a major position in the Patriot Front programme, and I believe that this is a serious success - not as much political as purely economic - because in this way we retain the green wealth of our country. I believe that the decisions regarding the payment of the loans to the depositors in KTB are also a positive result of the work of this government, and I believe that in this direction the work on exposing, clarifying the reasons, the perpetrators, the culprits and respectively the recovery of these huge sums that we were forced to vote in the National Assembly at the beginning of this mandate to cover the hole opened at KTB should continue. I believe that the consensus achieved and the replacement of some major bodies important to the Bulgarian society, such as the Court of Auditors, such as the election of a senior judicial inspector, the relatively high consensus achieved is also something we can be proud of. Of course, some of the commitments made were not fulfilled and were not mainly implemented because the Patriotic Front did not have the necessary percentage to participate and organise self-management. First of all, these are the problems of the revival of the economy. In this direction, unfortunately, almost nothing has been done. In this direction, we will continue to insist on fulfilling the commitments made to our constituents, set out in our program, which relieves the work regime mainly of small and medium-sized businesses, loosening the noose of administrative restrictions, which stifles the initiative of the Bulgarian people, and hence, as a consequence, increasing the incomes of the population. We have relatively failed to assess the policy until now, which is being carried out in the field of education, in some ways... to health, where things started with very serious claims for reforms that we supported and supported, but the serious state of health, as well as many other sectors that left us before, extremely incompetent and harmful to Bulgaria management of Oresharski must be removed in the fastest way. People won't forgive us and they won't wait for us. Another negative, unfortunately, phenomenon or failure, is in terms of combating crime. In the Program of the Patriot Front, we have very serious measures in terms of limiting domestic crime mainly in the deep countryside, in the small towns, what the whole Bulgarian people are groaning about. The exchange of one interior minister with another, unfortunately, has not helped this, and in this direction, nothing has been done, but I would like to remind the ruling coalition that fighting domestic crime is one of the main tasks of the Patriot Front and one of the most important conditions that we have set to support you. We will not deviate a millimeter from our Programme and from our election goals and tasks. Another disadvantage of the current government is that nothing has been done in the past five months by changing the electoral legislation. In this regard, honourable Members, I would like to remind you that we have tabled quite serious, radical and useful, both for the elections and for Bulgaria, changes that I count on to be supported when entering the Chamber. I miss a number of industries, perhaps details of the National Assembly's work, as well as the work of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, but the time is limited, so I will conclude with the report so far. A few words about the relationship, we need to take into account a positive change in relations in the political parties in the Forty-third National Assembly. Unlike the sharp, extreme confrontation that we witnessed at the previous National Assembly, we are currently witnessing to a much greater degree of change in the position and behaviour of the largest party, GERB, which changed its dictatorial approach from the previous government with dialogue and seeking agreement on the main issues. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I know what you're gonna say. [[Radio.]] Now I'm gonna give you some BSP brushes. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] I also congratulate you with the dialogue and with the responsibility with which you approach when important issues are resolved for Bulgaria and I will count on you to continue this way. I dare also say good words and commend, thank my fellow Members from the other parties, ABB, who show a moderation, reason and responsibility to the protection of the interests of the country. What is most important in the upcoming period? The most important thing is to continue the stabilisation, the political stabilisation of Bulgaria. Political stability is our primary task. If we do not ensure this, the Bulgarian people will sweep us away, as they did with some other preliminary national meetings, so I am counting that we can build this political stability, sustainability and dialogue and try to raise the rating of the National Assembly in the future. You know that there is already 4% growth in the rating of the National Assembly, which is good. To conclude, I believe that the political behaviour of the Patriotic Front is appreciated by society and this is what recent research shows. The public expects unity, protection of its interests and clearly can be made a good policy without participation in the government, but with consistent and responsible behavior in the National Assembly in the name of Bulgaria. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Lutvi Mestan has the floor. Here you are, dear Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday in Bulgaria, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State of the United States of America was visiting Mr Hoyt Yee. He is a representative of a country where, if you bother to twitter, Mrs Hillary Clinton is running the election campaign with Spanish-language voters in their Spanish language. No one in this country where there is undoubtedly rule of law is pursuing Mrs Hillary Clinton for sending written messages in Spanish to their voters. I am starting with this perhaps minor fact because it is about a real, deep conversation about what understanding we have in Bulgaria about the rule of law, because it has become clear from the statements of the leaders of the ruling parties that this problem will be one of the signs of the upcoming parliamentary session. Let me show you, in the style that the DPS establishes, to speak only the language of the facts, to show you these 12 penal decrees. [[shows documents]] imposed on a number of my colleagues and myself for the fact that during the last election campaign they allowed themselves to address their voters with a few words in their inner mother tongue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to two of the penal decrees. They were issued by the Regional Governor of Plovdiv. Unlike the other 10 penal decrees, which amount to a maximum of 2 thousand. BGN, total 10 thousand BGN, Mr. Rosaline Petkov imposes a fine for guilty behavior. The expression of the innermost, according to today's rulers, is guilty behavior. Guilty behavior! His penalty is BGN 681. Colleagues of the Reformation Block, raise your eyes! Not 680, not 682, but 681 leva.! Does that number mean anything to you? What does this local power gavaz tell us? [[Noise and lines, calls from Pf: "Eee!".]] Yeah, yeah! That's why he deserves to be defined! 681a is the year of the establishment of the Bulgarian state and this act tells us: "This is our country. You are foreign elements in it, and if you want to live here, you will give up your values, you will give up your identity! BGN 681. Two penal decrees. In order to spare you the doubts about whether it happened to stop at this number here is the second act, again for BGN 681. [[Shows document.]] So: it is good to know that I, and Tuncher, and Ferihan, and Mustafa are also the sons of Mother Bulgaria and she is our motherland. And rule of law is where there is equality when it guarantees equality. This is the meaning of the deep talk about the rule of law, not at all, but in the context of a democratic country, a member of the European Union, because laws have also established dictatorships, laws have been legitimized and discrimination and gross human rights violations. Interpretative, honourable Members of the ruling majority, soon this guilty behaviour will no longer be prosecuted by fines alone. There is a proposal from your coalition partners that the use of a mother tongue will now qualify as a common crime and that crime will be imprisoned for three to six years. Is this your understanding of the rule of law? If not, why didn't I hear a single comment from the omnipotent Democrats from the Reformation Block? Why didn't I hear a comment from GERB and other parties that formed the ruling majority? Ladies and gentlemen, you are silent because there is a dangerous process that is increasingly identified by national populism. This is a dangerous process of replacing values. This behavior of your coalition partners is a pure sample of neonacism, a clean sample of fascism. [[Loud noise, lines and calls from PF.]] And despite your cries, open your ears, open your eyes to the voice of Europe. You cannot have a selective attitude towards the voice of Europe. I hold in my hands, Mr. Tsvetanov, Commission report against discrimination and intolerance of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe [[shows document]] which we've been a member of since the early 1990s. In § 32 of this official PACE document we read: In Bulgaria there are several ultranationalist (fascist) political parties and groups, including NFSB (National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria), VMRO, GNI and BNS. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll let you know if you've forgotten to read this document. It's an official PACE document. So, ladies and gentlemen, from this point of view, the rule of law is not just about dividing one body into two, Members. This is a much deeper process. We, as a party that did not sign the Constitution in 1991, are generally open to much deeper reforms in it than we hear from you as controversial ideas. However, we expected you to make a clear distinction between public and private-party interest in relation to amendments to the Constitution in relation to judicial reform at all. We expected clearly developed projects with differentiation, according to the rank of the act with which law could be adopted, Constitution. Differentiation also of the rank of the authority that can accept the amendment.. Usually the National Assembly or the Grand National Assembly. Instead, you sank into the crisis of your internal contradictions, in a complete lack of conceptuality and visionaryism, in legal helplessness. In conclusion, I would say that you are creating a sense of waving the word'reform', the ideas of constitutional changes, words such as'referendum', as a kind of myth to replace the exhausted myth of the person-messies. The meats are gone. Long live the megali-ideas like the new messiahs! Your more important focus is on the close-party interest. You named it yourself. You have stated that the purpose of reforms is to change with each other members of the relevant authorities. On the contrary, do you want me to read to you the statements of both your leader and Mrs. Bachvarova and a number of other important factors of management? But the most clearly stated party interest is that you said: "The success of judicial reform depends on the stability of the cabinet and its full mandate. Which office? Or the more accurate question is, what office? To the one who said today that he wanted the DPS to be taken out of power? The cabinet behind which stands the political power that the musician sees in the voice of an animal who defines difference as a human being? [[Noise and lines, calls from PF.]] You want us to strengthen this cabinet, such a government? Dear colleagues, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has the legitimate reason to say that it is open to support strategic decisions related to the Bulgarian national interest, but this goes through the clear profile of the country's governance. It must be free of national populism and fascism. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group "Bulgarian Center of Svetlin Tanchev, co-chair.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will begin, with regret, for the misfortunes and scary events that are happening all the time around us and which clearly prove to us that the state fails to deal with them, floods, scandals about the concreteization of the Black Sea coast, the destruction of forests, problems with tourism and another wave for Easter towards Greece, scandals with KTB, with the lack of respect for the people who create Bulgarian culture, scandals in the judiciary, taking children's lives on the road without adequate consequences. I sincerely tell you that an increasing number of Bulgarian citizens do not feel state and statehood. Look at the results of the public opinion polls we are managing a state of people with no perspective, bullied by institutions, cheated by criminals, poor and willing to do anything to survive, including stepping on the rest of their dignity, a country with complex, harassing conditions for development of initiative and entrepreneurship, burdened with heavy permits regimes and fines, a country that in the digital era continues to be in the last century as if it were deliberately not developing electronic governance and government. How do you put the agenda of society in this picture?! We are faced with the need not only to try to implement our political priorities as parliamentary parties, but to think about the need for new building. The tasks before us cannot be solved by giving patriotic instructions to tourists. Most than ever, Bulgaria needs a country to work for its citizens and politicians who are not afraid to take responsibility. We need to rearrange public relations in society based on solidarity, the equality of all citizens before the law, clearly oriented in defence of the Bulgarian national interest. We need to rearrange public relations and society. Again, unfortunately, we have to say that we have convinced ourselves that he is ruling a coalition that has sacrificed its determination to reform in the name of survival in the local elections. Three months ago, we said that we would change this situation, that there would be reforms and actions. Action! Nothing's changed today. Moreover, power is already being reoriented by solving strategic problems towards winning local elections. The behaviour of power is already conformist, it is about to swallow the compromises and bury in the past, in the name of local coalitions, the allocation of influence, the behavior that we do not accept. In this situation, our parliamentary group sees its role as a factor of parliamentary and political stability, those who help people in the troubles that have reached them will restore their pride that they are Bulgarians and will show that the state is on the side of their citizens. During the future period of the work of the Forty-third National Assembly, our main priorities will be: the incomes of Bulgarian citizens; reducing the administrative burden on the Bulgarian business; tackling the refugee crisis and creating a new policy for Bulgarians abroad. We will introduce legislative changes that will support the national and Bulgarian business. Our economy needs healthy economic potential, protectionism. We must protect Bulgarian production and agriculture at least by taking care of our borders and the control of customs through which goods go, which destroy entire industries. Only by changing the economic environment and with active measures against corruption can we achieve efficiency in the absorption of the funds from the European funds, which the Bulgarian business mainly hopes for. It is also necessary for the state to intervene in the economy by stimulating the competitiveness of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and we will propose how to do so. We will continue to actively participate in the debate and legislative changes relating to judicial reform and to the pressing amendments to the Constitution. We will continue our work on health reform, on overcoming infrastructure and transport problems and environmental protection. From now on, I would like to say that we will be opposed to the ideas for introducing mandatory voting and changes to the last-minute electoral code. I am not optimistic because I do not believe that this majority, in this configuration, is capable of having the capacity and willpower to implement the reforms and changes it has announced it will make, but I sincerely hope this will happen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. On behalf of the political party parliamentary group You have the floor, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable viewers and listeners! Because let us not forget that these statements on behalf of parliamentary groups are made available to the Bulgarian people. As they say, whoever has eyes will see who has ears will hear. Honourable Members, today we celebrate half a year since this National Assembly exists. Six months! Six months in which each of our voters, viewers, listeners could have seen and done the math of which party she worked, which coalition, which parliamentary power in what way and whether she defended his personal interests, whether she justified the trust he gave her in the last election as a voter. You know that from the very creation of the Forty-third National Assembly of the Party of Ataka we have tabled forty-three draft laws and the draft decisions something that we want to change in Bulgaria in this way, things that are important to us, for our voters. Unfortunately, these bills, draft decisions, draft statements are in many other places, but not in this plenary where decisions are made. They're aged on committees, I don't know, maybe the lady chairman's stove lit with them, but they don't come in here, in plenary. In fact, these ideas and suggestions represent what we are fighting for and working for. Whether they will be accepted by this National Assembly depends on the whole Bulgarian people, because in the end this is the assumption that the Bulgarian people should be the sovereign and he decides who is here in this Chamber, who is not, who is pressing the button................................................................................. What do we offer from "Attack," what are we fighting for from "Attack"? I will read to you only a small part of the draft decisions and changes in the laws that we have tabled, let each of you take note: a change in the Labour Code for leveling the minimum wage. Many of you think this is sacrilegious, but I will tell you: Germany, for example, is working very hard on this issue to impose minimum wage in the European Union. So what do we do? When Germany offers it, you will all agree, because Ataka proposed it, it was bad, and somewhere lies on the committees. The same happened with the Bulgarian pensions. Law on referendums to hear the voice of the Bulgarian people. Not only once every four years, when there are elections, but to really hear the voice of the Bulgarian people. Changing the Law on personal income taxes to remove this flat tax, which BSP introduced him and in the last term could not cancel it. We absolutely want this to go away. State Seal Act and national flag. Here, at the back, you can see that the flag of the European Union stands something that we think is unacceptable. Yes, we are members of the European Union, and we are also a member of the UN. Should we put the UN flag on it too? And to many other organisations we are also members, but this pleasingness, which we show in every way to every Eurofactor, and even this flag, which stands invariably everywhere in Bulgaria, I mean the flag of the European Union, shows how much we have actually given Europe, and this Europe has given us nothing but a flag. Act for the annulment of the institution, called the Court of Justice. Here a few weeks ago, some changes to laws were being considered to regulate their activities. We just want there not to be such an institution in Bulgaria a private judicial contractor. I will also mention quickly: a change in the Labour Code, protecting the worker from the employer; a change in the Criminal Code, which requires self-defense. This is something that, wherever you go, in whatever village you go, whoever you ask, will tell you that you need to change, it needs to be done. These are part of the laws, but the main objective for which we work is the improvement of the demographic picture in Bulgaria. You know the situation is tragic. Here, in some of the speeches before me of the chairmen of parliamentary groups, this issue has been addressed as a point which has been put at last. This is what we should put first, because whatever we decide in this Chamber, in whatever way we argue, let us not argue, if there is no Bulgarian people, there is no point in calling ourselves MPs. If we don't work for his revival, it doesn't make any sense to call ourselves MPs. How are we gonna do that? Naturally, when there is money in the country, when the Bulgarians do not emigrate abroad, where there is money when they stay here. When there's money, there'll be more kids. Older people will live longer when the treasury is full. When there is a country to take care of them, then we will fix this huge problem for Bulgaria. How are we going to do that?! That's the kind of decision you make. Here, with the proposals that we have made, which are respectively rejected in committees, or do not reach the plenary. The cancellation of these concessions will take place hundreds of millions, billions will enter Bulgaria in this way. They won't go for small percentages of commission fee in Canada or in other countries, millions and billions will enter our treasury, and you'll see how things are going to work out. Then we'll talk about small pensions? Excuse me! When this meeting was set up and when the Cabinet was voted here, in this Chamber, by four parliamentary forces, you remember then that the social minister responsible for this is a representative of the ABB party. He promised by the end of March that there would be a clear presentation and a public discussion on the pension reform in Bulgaria already took place. Some such topics were heard in society, some ideas for a change in the retirement age, but more was heard that the ABB party, respectively its representative is more likely to leave this government, and in general the coalition that is currently ruling Bulgaria. Excuse me, but the comparison of this seems to me like an overheated old food with grapes, but from the sour grapes you know the quote about the fox, which was very sour when you were not in parliament when you were not in power, and now when you are in power, this grape is very sweet and does not give up on you. You know perfectly well here I mean the ruling parties, how many things you cheated on from what you promised your voters. Yes, the President of the Patriotic Front said how he was very proud that the South Stream was gone. Well, let him know that South Stream has become Turkish Stream. Now we will not buy gas from Orthodox Russia, we will buy gas from Turkey. Let's draw conclusions about that as well. And let a rhetorical question remain in the air: what happened to the news in Turkish, which from the Patriotic Front would you remove? Please don't use the word here again when you're in the department. You're there to rule, not promise. You can promise during a campaign, but when you're here, manage, please. Power is in your hands, you have a government, you have chosen it, you support it. You go to the Prime Minister, you call him, you see him, you talk, you get along and you act. The word will not be used again. Something else very important, which we at Ataka hold: Bulgaria's sovereignty to make our own decisions, decisions that are beneficial to our country, such as the lifting of sanctions against Russia. Of course we have to work for it. Countries in the European Union, which are much more developed than we are, say how their economies suffer from these sanctions. We here, poor Bulgaria say: "Everything is right with us, there are no problems with us the more, the more! How many fences were there during the months of protests?! When this National Assembly was established, here the President, I heard responsible factors from GERB said: there will be no more enclosures in Sofia. Please, won't there be?! Secretary of State John Carey has had enclosures all over Sofia. There were inscriptions on the blocks: "Don't open your door on the balcony! So there were fences and they show how dependent we are. I just received a signal that the American ambassador is currently at the Courthouse and is meeting with many senior magistrates there. What's he doing? What?! Are we doing judicial reform there, or are we doing it here in this National Assembly?! All the questions that show where we are and where we got her. Something very important, currently there are NATO forces in Bulgaria, which are actually forces of the United States of America. Here, yesterday another clerk came, remember, the NATO chief, came the Secretary of State in these months, while this National Assembly was working. Does anyone really know how many military equipment there are, how many soldiers, what they do, how they do it, how long they do it? To come and answer, or to the relevant committee to see these questions. Does anyone really know what this is about?! We are strongly opposed to the conflict that is spreading between the United States of America and Russia to take some attitude. Of course, first of all, Russia is a country that has freed us, which is much closer to us. But let the big ones understand each other, and as I have said before, I will use this conversational approach not to slap ourselves between the slaps. That's what we insist on. You can call it what you want: Russophilism, russophobicism, it's actually Bulgarian philosophy. [[Noise and lines.]] I will finally finish with this, at the beginning I turned to the Bulgarian people, now I turn to it again. It is high time to stop trusting the other sociologists who know how they form their research, depending on how they have paid, to the other politicians who have entered the National Assembly, and, of course, have cheated on their voters. We must start to believe in us in the Bulgarian people, because in fact the Bulgarian people are Bulgaria, and as all of us in the Ataka know, Bulgaria is above everything. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival Mr. Kiril Tsochev. [[The President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva is replacing Mr. Dimitar Glauchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! For ABB, priority during the Summer Parliamentary Session will be to propose and implement specific forms that ABB has started and will stand for. First of all, the ABB stands behind the package of measures of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin in the pension and social sphere, measures that have long been postponed back in time, and now there is a chance that along the way of broad public discussions and political consensus to be adopted. I allow myself, Mr. Chukolov, to replicate the measures made for public discussion on March 31st. The correction is in this sense that our obligation is fulfilled. Secondly, the ABB proposed its own version of reforms in the judiciary, which are reflected in amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, as well as in the establishment of an authority at the National Assembly to facilitate the process of realization of the updated Strategy of Judicial Reform. For the ABB Parliamentary Group, it will be of particular importance to discuss and adopt an amendment and supplement to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. The proposed changes will significantly lower the threshold for the validity of the referendums to more than 40% of those eligible to vote and will enable voters outside the major parties, from smaller political formations and NGOs to organise a petition to conduct a consultation, and our proposal is to remove the required number of votes from 500 000 to 300 thousand. The Bill on Overdebtion of Individuals and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Property Conservation Act are a commitment of the ABB Parliamentary Group, which we will also stand for. ABB also offers several national strategies in key sectors. These are the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of Agriculture of the Republic of Bulgaria and Strategy for the Bulgarian Forest. We are also working on bringing out education as a key priority of state policy. Energy is one of the most important sectors in the country's economy and an element of national security. In recent years, it, as well as the whole economy, is functioning in a crisis, but the severe situation in which it is located, has been more associated with a lack of transparency in decision making, maladministration of state-owned companies and unexercised financial control, in many cases and with the dominance of private corporate interests over state policy and professional logic. In the Bulgarian society, including among the political forces, a paradoxical public consensus is formed. Everyone takes into account the situation in the energy sector as extremely difficult, severe, requiring urgent and adequate actions to stabilise, restart, resuscitate and so on, but there are no radical and decisive actions to reform the sector and rescue state energy companies. As if there is no desire for change, despite the declarations of readiness to adopt an updated energy strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2030, with a view to 2050. This document must meet the new priorities of European energy policy and national interest and reflect the vision for sustainable development of the sector. Political Party ABB and its parliamentary group will continue to work to stabilise the security system and increase the fighting capacity of our armed forces. With regard to internal security in the Republic of Bulgaria, a major priority for the ABB will be restoring public confidence in the Ministry of Interior system, as well as building a public council to coordinate and support the management of the Ministry of Interior. Of particular importance for the ABB in the upcoming Summer Session of the Forty-third National Assembly will be the control over the spending of the issued external debt, which will happen with proposals for changes in legislation, the creation of an investment fund and the development of an installation programme for spending the budget deficit. We will continue to be a constructive social corrective in the management. We will retain our right to difference where there are discrepancies in the vision of governance. We will work for the political, social and economic stability of the state. We call on the National Assembly to adopt a declaration on 9 May to be celebrated in all its historical dimensions, namely the 70th anniversary of the surrender of Nazi Germany, ending World War II, and marking Robert Schuman's Declaration of 9 May 1950 to proclaim the idea of a united Europe. We wish success, constructive work and less political populism and hate language, xenophobia and ethnic intolerance! [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. Moving to point one of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR CONVESTATION OF EXPENSIONS. There is a report for second reading by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, we're listening to your report. Please turn off the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u42	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy Daniela Vizieva, Deputy Minister of Economy, Elena Pistovkoveva, Head of the Department of Investment and Investment Projects and Department of Economic Policies for Promotion, and Ilija Tabakov, Chief Inspector in the Department of Investment and Investment Projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u43	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 75 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 2. Invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u44	On 5 March 2015, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a Draft Law amending the Investment Promotion Act, No 502-01-16, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015, adopted on the first vote on 2 April 2015. The Act for the amendment of the Investment Promotion Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u45	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u46	Under § 1, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 the words "Commission Regulation (EC) No 800/2008 of 6 August 2008 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the common market in application of Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty (General Block Exemption Regulation) (OJ L 214/3 of 9 August 2008).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 800/2008', is replaced by "Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty (OJ L 187, 26 June 2014.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 652/2014'. 2. In para. 2 the words "the measures for individual aid' shall be replaced by "the measures for aid'; the words "the aid' shall be replaced by "the aid'; the words "the aid' shall be replaced by "the aid measure'; the words "the aid measure' shall be replaced by "the aid measure'; the words "the aid measure' shall be replaced by "the aid measure'; the words "the aid measure' shall be replaced by "the aid measure for individual aid'; the words "the aid measure' shall be replaced by "the aid measure'; the words "the aid measure' shall be replaced by "the aid measure for individual aid'; the words "the aid measure' shall be replaced by "the aid measure for individual aid'; the words "the aid measure for the common market' shall be replaced by "the aid measure for the common market within the meaning of Article 800/2008; 87 (3) of the Treaty establishing the European Community and are exempt from the obligation to notify under art. Article 88 (3) of the Treaty under the terms of Article 88 (3) of the Treaty 3 of Regulation (EC) No 800/2008 is replaced by the "Chapter III' of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 for compatibility with the common market within the meaning of art. 107 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and are exempt from the notification obligation under art. 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union under the conditions of art. 3 of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014. 3. In para. 3 words "The measures for individual aid which do not meet the conditions under para. The measures for individual regional investment aid or individual training aid which do not comply with the conditions of para. 2 and of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014 and the words "art." 88 of the Treaty establishing the European Community 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u48	From § 2 to § 10, all proposals are by importer. By § 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 3, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 4, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 5, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 6, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 7, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 8, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 9, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. By § 10, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 2 to 10, including by importer, as well as the name of the section "Transitional and final provisions" supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u50	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Rules for the Implementation of the Law shall be aligned with it and with Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (2) The regional investment aid scheme and the training aid scheme shall enter into force at the same time as the amendments to the Rules of Procedure under para. 1. (3) The Ministry of Economy shall draw up summary information on the schemes which it shall provide to the European Commission according to the order and time limits laid down in art. 9 of the State Aid Act and Art. 11 point (d) of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... The regional investment aid scheme and the training aid scheme shall apply to investment projects and training projects which have not started work before the entry into force of the schemes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u51	Paragraph 11 with its three paragraphs and § 12, are there any colleagues? I won't. Anblok, I am putting to the vote the version of § 11 and § 12 proposed to us by the Commission in its report. We are voting on the proposals on the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this was passed and the bill at second reading. Moving on to point two: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF LAW PROJECTS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF TRADE CORRECTION CODECTION CODEX. Importers: Council of Ministers on 17 March 2015 The first draft Law and the second draft Law of Plamen Manushev, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov from 1 April 2015. There has been a joint report on the two draft laws by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The report will be proposed by Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 502-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2015 and a Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 554-01-66, submitted by Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 8 April 2015, a Draft amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 502-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2015 and a Draft amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 554-01-66, submitted by Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, and Mrs. Silvina Bakardzhieva. The bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 502-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2015, was presented by Mr. Zhivko Petrov. In his statement Mr. Petrov stressed that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) has two main objectives. First, the proposed amendments to the provisions of art. Art. 93, Art. 93 Art. 329 and the creation of Art. 329 337a-337d are measures at national level necessary for the implementation and implementation of the International Convention for the Departure of Sunk Property from Nairobi, 2007, ratified by law (GB, No. 92 of 2011), hereinafter referred to as the "Supreme'. With the change in art. 329 the removal or withdrawal of sunken property is regulated both in the territorial sea and in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Bulgaria and through the amendment of art. 93 An obligation shall be established for the master of the ship to inform the administration of the coastal State in the event of marine accidents where property is sunk. The proposed addition to Chapter 14 of the KTC "Development of sunken property" shall regulate the cases of liability of the ship owner, limitations of liability and obligation of the ship owner of a 300 or more tonnes gross tonnage to have insurance, bank guarantee or other financial security covering the compensation up to the amount of the costs of determining the location, marking and removal of sunken property. Next, the draft provides for amendments and additions which are necessary in view of commitments made to the European Commission in respect of requests for information received in 2014 in the framework of a request for information from the European Union PILOT and 6068/14/MOVE (so-called "information phase') for non-compliance by Bulgaria with the obligations to take measures at national level to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1177/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on the rights of passengers travelling by sea or inland waterways and amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (OJ L 334 of 2010) (Regulation (EU) No 1177/2020). Strict implementation of the commitments made in response to the requests received is key to preventing the initiation of infringement proceedings under art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In order to guarantee the rights of passengers, an amendment and an addition to the administrative penal provision of art. 383c to ensure the strict application of the rules of Regulation (EU) No 1177/2010 in the case of cancellation of the journey, departure delay and arrival delay. The bill offers an equivalent addition to the administrative penal provision in the Law on Seaspaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. With the amendment of art. 221a of the Commercial Shipping Code makes a clear distinction between the application of the texts of the Commercial Navigation Code and those of Regulation (EU) 1177/2010 in respect of the rights and obligations arising under a passenger transport contract, i.e. the rights of passengers covered by the Regulation, will also be protected in cases not provided for in a regulation but governed by the standards of the KTC. The MPs who took part in the discussion said unanimously that they would support the bill. The bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 554-01-66, submitted by Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015, was presented by Mr. Pavel Hristov. The purpose of the proposed changes is to synchronise the provisions of the Code of Commercial Shipping with those of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria with regard to floating docks anchored in the aquatory of ports and used as part of the production process of ship repair and shipbuilding enterprises. In this respect, an addition to art. 3, para. 1 of the KTC, according to which the activities of ship repair and shipbuilding are excluded from the scope of the legal concept of commercial shipping. It is proposed that anchored floating docks intended for ship repair and shipbuilding are excluded from the scope of art. 4, para. 1 of the KTC containing the legal definition of a commercial vessel. During the discussion, the representatives of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration stated that they supported the bill, but stressed the need to refine some of the proposed texts. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2015; With 12 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, the National Assembly proposed to adopt a bill of amendment and supplement to the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 554-01-66, submitted by Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs on 1 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u54	Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a procedure for admission to the Chamber of Ms. Krasimira Stoyanova, representative of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u55	She's proposing the Council of Ministers bill, I hope, as an importer? I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 100 MPs: 93 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite Mrs. Stoyanova. The drafts should be submitted on behalf of the importers. The first bill is the Council of Ministers. They don't want to introduce him. The second bill is from the MPs Manushev, Valkov and Hristov. Who will present the bill? Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u56	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that the introduction of this Bill is just in time, we are even a little late, as the Nairobi Convention of 2007 entered into force on 14 April this year and, with our ratification of 2011 so far, we should change our legislation and the changes that we are going to debate and adopt should now be in force, as the Convention has entered into force since ratification in Denmark last this year. So both bills are important. I will focus more on the bill tabled by me and my colleagues, but also on the first part, it is important to synchronise the Code of Commercial Shipping...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u57	You will speak on the first bill. Now, as an importer, present us your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u58	I'm listening. On the submitted bill, by its part of changing the Code of Commercial Shipping concerning the status of floating docks, I can say that they are ships of special status. There is currently a discrepancy in two laws in our legislation. They are treated in two different ways in the Code of Commercial Shipping and in the Law on Marine Spaces. In the Code of Commercial Shipping, the floating docks anchored in the aquatory of ship repair and shipbuilding plants are treated as commercial ships. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: In the Law on Marine Spaces, the floating docks are treated as port facilities and are registered as such and their requirements are as part of the equipment of the ship repair or shipbuilding plant. They are also paid fees as for a quay facility. This cannot exist, and that is why, by discussing it with my colleagues, we have decided that we must establish exactly the status of floating docks, thus with the entry and adjustments made also under the Nairobi Convention, will only increase the administrative burden for the shipbuilding and ship repair business. The special nature and purpose of the floating docks in shipbuilding and ship repair plants and the absence of explicit regulations for them makes it possible to extend the legal acts and, I have already told you, aggravates the activity and requirements of a commercial ship relating to a floating dock and the availability of rescue vehicles, lists, all other documents, aggravates and hinders the activities of ship repairers and shipyards, especially when the floating docks are anchored stationary to the coast and at sea and are part of the ports of special status. All shipbuilding and ship repair plants have the status of ports with special regime. Their registration as port facilities and part of the port infrastructure requires the maintenance of other documents from those of a commercial ship and the inclusion of floating docks as an integral part when determining also the aquatorial fee of ships. For the same thing, shipyards and ship repair plants pay different charges under two laws which do not correspond to their intended functions. Given that the main purpose of the floating docks is to carry out port services, i.e. shipbuilding and ship repair, they do not carry out sailings. They are permanently anchored and anchored in ports and are an integral part of the port infrastructure of the factories. None of the other types of ships pay an aquatorial fee like the floating docks. We believe that the floating docks for shipbuilding and ship repair are wrongly registered as commercial ships. Deleting floating docks from the ship registry will not prejudice state interests for the following reasons: - on the basis of the Maritime Area Act, the floating docks will continue to be part of the port infrastructure and will continue to be paid an aquatorial fee; - as port facilities, the floating docks are subject to state control by the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, which also controls the other ships; - the technical condition of both the ships and the floating docks as port facilities are monitored by a classification organization, for example the Bulgarian ship registry. The proposed additions to the Code of Commercial Shipping, I stress once again, will arrange the status of the floating docks serving to carry out the activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. The debate is open. I ask Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in this matter. Are there any willing colleagues, or was the importer so thorough and accurate? You want the word to speak? Here you are, Mr. Manushev, as a participant in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, regarding the two bills, I have just begun, but very rightly the President has interrupted me and told me exactly what to do on this stand. I said, "I'm listening and I did it." Now I can say a few words about the two bills, especially in their first part. Indeed, this is imperative and mandatory for our State which ratified this Convention from Nairobi, concerning the removal of sunken facilities, ships at sea in the territorial and, above all, in the exclusive economic zone up to 200 miles away, and before this Convention, this was not regulated in the world ocean and there was no responsibility for the owners or ship owners and shippers by sinking a ship outside the territorial waters of the State, to inform and pay any insurance for the damage to both the state and the ecology and the whole environment. So it is imperative and this law must be voted on. I don't think that's controversial. The other things that are corrected in the Code of Commercial Shipping are the synchronization with Directive 1177 of the European Union on the rights of passengers and the obligations of the carrier at sea. So far, they have not been regulated, and with these changes we are bringing into line our legislation with the requirements of the European Union Directive 1177................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We also synchronize the volume of our passenger ships. We have a right to 100,000. the ton of these, we have not reached it so far, so we do not owe any changes or reduction to those vessels that deal with passenger transport, but also this thing is also important and must be corrected in our legislation "the Code of Commercial Shipping," and also some things that concern the Law on Marine Spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u61	- What's the line? I won't. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take account of the bill discussed? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Law of the Council of Ministers with an inch. No 502-01-20 of 17 March 2015. The bill is to amend and supplement the Code of Commercial Shipping. They voted 93 MPs: 78, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping with an inch. No 554 01 66, submitted by the MPs Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs. We are voting on the bill with the legislative initiative of our colleagues from GERB. 99 MPs voted: 93, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST LOCATION OF LAW FOR THE EUROPEAN CONSERVATION FOR PROTECTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds has been received. I expect Mr. Kirilov to present us with the report of the Legal Commission. It's not gonna be him. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u62	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the European Protection Order No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015. At its meeting on 1 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the European Protection Order Bill, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice, who presented the bill on behalf of the importers. The bill aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European protection order. A legal possibility to recognise, implement, issue and transmit a European protection order shall be established in accordance with which a protection measure issued in one Member State will be able to be applied in the territory of another Member State in which the protected person intends to reside. This additional legal protection will benefit all victims of crime. The bill sets out specific prohibitions and restrictions under the protection measure on the basis of which a European protection order may be issued, such as: prohibition of visiting certain settlements, places or areas where the protected person resides or visits; prohibition or restriction of contact in any form with the protected person and prohibition or restriction of approach to the protected person at less than the specified distance. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. From the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Mrs. Hubenova will probably present it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u64	"COMMODITY" on a draft Law on the European Protection Order, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015. At its regular meeting held on 8 April 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a draft law on the European Protection Order, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015. The following representatives of the Ministry of Justice took part in the meeting of the Commission: Mrs. Vergenia Micheva-Rousseva, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Diana Boeva, Jr. at the Department of Law Enforcement and Mr. Florian Florov, Chief Expert at the Department of International Cooperation and Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. This Bill aims to introduce the provisions of Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 December 2011 on the European Protection Order into our national legislation. The directive is part of the package of measures proposed by the European Commission to ensure minimum rights, support and protection of victims of crime in the EU. The package also includes Regulation (EU) No 606/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters and Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. The draft law shall include general provisions on its subject matter, the European Protection Order and the protection measures, the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of the European Protection Order, as well as its issuance and dispatch to a Member State of the European Union. In order to fully transpose Directive 2011/99/EU, amendments and additions to the Criminal Code (Criminal Code) and to the Criminal Procedure Code (NPC) are proposed. It should be borne in mind that through the proposals in art. Art. 67, Art. 310 of the PPC The bill complies with the provisions of Directive 2011/99/EU. They are linked to the commitment to notify victims of crimes of the possibility to request the issuing of a European protection order. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for the European Protection Order, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? There aren't any. The debate is closed. We move on to a vote, then we take a break. I am putting at first reading a Bill on the European Protection Order, No 502-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2015. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously at first reading. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u66	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing our work with: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVE DISCLOSURES AND PROCEDURE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There has been a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u67	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 502-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015. At its meeting on 1 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 502-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Petko Petkov. He pointed out that the draft proposed was, first of all, the recommendations made to the Republic of Bulgaria with the report of the Working Party to combat the bribery of foreign officials to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the recommendations made as a result of the review of compliance of the Bulgarian legislation with the provisions of the UN Convention against Corruption and, second, the need to improve the order for the realization of the responsibility of legal persons who have been enriched or would be enriched as a result of a criminal offence. The Law aims to clearly define the competent court in cases initiated pursuant to art. 83a and the following by the FDA, extending the possibility of initiating proceedings to impose a sanction on the legal person upon termination or suspension of proceedings against the natural person; increasing the maximum amount of the sanction for legal persons; regulating the possibility for the State to withdraw the direct and indirect benefits of the offence. The bill provides for an extension of the circle of crimes committed which could be grounds for initiating proceedings under art. 83b and the following by ZNN, it is envisaged that the district courts at the legal person's seat should act as the first instance in the cases, and that the courts in question should be heard. The order is set for the reopening of cases and the subsidised application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. People's representatives Philip Popov, Christian Mitev and Yavor Notev took part in the discussion. Mr. Popov noted that despite his agreement with a large part of the proposed provisions, he could not support it due to the existence of some problems, such as the possibility of bringing sanctions by the shareholders of the company for a crime committed by a specific natural person; the possibility of double sanctioning of legal persons in cases where the property is missing or alienated; uncertainty regarding the imposition of a sanction on a legal person who does not have a registered office in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and others. Mr. Mitev raised a question about the need to adopt the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the ZNH in view of the expected submission for consideration of the Code on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Mr. Notev expressed his support for the Bill, motivated by the content in it of a well written and reasoned idea. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 2 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 502-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to take an opinion on the benefits and novelties offered as legal decisions in the Bill offered to your attention. Indeed, there is a matter in which so far there have been many gaps. In practice, legal persons who received a benefit could not be sanctioned and, respectively, the benefit to be taken from their property. I consider it appropriate that the proposed order is assigned to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, although it concerns the consequences of crimes committed, i.e. actual criminal activity. It will highlight your attention to cases where such a sanction could be applied. Such proceedings may be brought against the legal person where the offences are of the following kind: the preaching of hatred on a religious basis by word, seal or other means of mass information; by electronic information systems or by other means. 164, para. 1 of the Criminal Code; certain crimes against the monetary system... the provisions of Articles 243, 244, 244a, 246, para. 3 of the NK; also presentation of false information about obtaining a loan. 248a, para. 1 of the NK; presentation of false information or keeping of false information in order to obtain funds from funds belonging to the European Union or provided by the European Union to the Bulgarian State; this is art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2 of the NK. Here you can see the coverage of the sanctum regime and the public values that are protected in this way. I note that this is how the requirements of the UN Convention against Corruption are met, as well as the recommendations given in Phase 3 of the Working Party to combat the bribery of foreign officials to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. It is also appropriate to take into account the fact that this regime is established under very strict judicial review and the involvement of a prosecutor in those proceedings. We believe that the rights of all possible persons concerned would be protected. The international legal standard for protection in criminal proceedings and procedures is also observed here. I appeal to you to support the proposals submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to take part in this debate? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. There's a vote coming up. I submit at first reading the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Cancel the vote. It's the roll call list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Methodiev - here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Katya Nikoloeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here Additionally recorded: Aidoan Ali, Altimir Adamov, Angel Naydenov, Valeri Zablyanov, Atanas Zafirov, Georgi Svilenski, Galya Zaharieva, Ventsislav Kaimakanov, Georgi Tarnovalyski, Valentin Nikolov, Güney Husmen, Stanislav Ivanov, Georgi Gokov, Atanas Merdanov, Ayhan Etem, Georgi Kadiev, Irena Kotseva, Boyka Marinska, Vladimir Toshev, Doncho Baxanov, Desislava Atanasova, Desislava Kostadinova, Dimitar Gechev, Georgiev, Borislav Velikov, Dimitar Petrov, Stefan Kenov, Semir Abu Melih, Diana Jordanova, Krasimir Yankov, Vladimir Toshev, Slavi Binev. And Mr. Ermenkov is here. There is a quorum. Let's move on. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Vote 131 MPs: for 107, there is no objection, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. We move to the next point of our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF LAW PRODUCES FOR ADVISION OF THE PRIVACY LAW AND AFTER PREPATIZATION "6th" of the submitted Project for a Programme. There are reports from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Culture and Media. There is no report submitted by the Foreign Policy Committee. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Mr. Kanev, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u71	On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure will ask that they be admitted to the Chamber: - by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Rumen Alexandrov - from the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency: Mitko Simeonov - Deputy Executive Director.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u72	We vote. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests, they're allowed in the hall. We're listening, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u73	♪ I can't believe on bills supplementing the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act: No 554-01-36, submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015; No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015; and No 502-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015. At its regular meetings held on 4 March and 8 April 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the draft amendments to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs and the Council of Ministers. The meetings were attended by: - from the Ministry of Economy: Lyuben Petrov (Deputy Minister, Lachezar Borisov) Head of Department in the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - from the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control Agency: Emil Karanikolov Executive Director, Stefka Gramatikova Deputy Executive Director, Mikhail Vladov and Rusi Statkov Members of the Supervisory Board. The bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs is drawn up in connection with the return of the diplomatic property agency in the country. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. In 2011, the company was removed from the list of "Annex No 1" and the privatisation procedure launched was suspended in 2013. The possibility of finalising the privatisation procedure was by returning it to the list of "Annex No" 1. The company, with the principal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is in good financial condition, managed successfully, generated profits and paid dividends to the state budget. The bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015, was drawn up in connection with the return of the Act on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015 in connection with the return of the Act on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. In 2011 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement') and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement'). "Audivideo Orpheus" EAD is excluded from the list "Audivideo Orpheus" EAD is the only enterprise in the country that specializes in the digital restoration of film archive material, has digital masters of hundreds of Bulgarian film titles. Its main activity is related to the digital restoration of classical Bulgarian feature films and documentaries. In this sense, his activities are also a guarantee for the preservation of the national cultural heritage. In 2013 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The National Agency of Music and Music Ltd is excluded from the list of "Annex No 1" with the motive for serious financial situation and the company's actual inability to develop a business activity. The company supports and encourages the creation of Bulgarian music, creates conditions for the realization of Bulgarian musicians, helps to preserve Bulgarian musical culture and traditions. In the company is kept an accounting archive including documents on remuneration paid to the employees of the closed concert artists, orchestras, vocal performers, ballets, acrobats, illusionists and others who worked in the period 1960 - 1991. In view of the subject and specifics of the activity related to the creation and distribution of Bulgarian stage and musical works, it is proposed that the National Music Agency will be returned to the list. The bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015, was drawn up in connection with the return of the Agency diplomatic properties in the country. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, due to the fact that the privatisation of state participation in the capital of the company poses serious danger to the fulfilment of international obligations by the Republic of Bulgaria under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. "Agency diplomatic properties in the country" is designed to serve diplomatic missions and its main subject of activity is the rental of real estate and the technical facilities for residential, commercial or administrative needs of the members of the Diplomatic Corps in the Republic of Bulgaria. Maintaining the company's capital as a state, it shall be provided with the opportunity to remove property to be provided for the needs of the public administration and which may be used for administrative purposes or provided for the needs of diplomatic missions under bilateral agreements. After presenting and discussing the bills, a vote was held which ended with the following results: - under a bill supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 554-01-36, submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs on February 17th 2015: supposed and abstentioned representatives of the National Assembly, without the opposition of the National Assembly; - under the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015: - under the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 502-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, the bills supplementing the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act: No 554-01-36, submitted by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs on 17 February 2015; No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015; and No 502-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. With the report of the Committee on Culture and Media, we will be introduced by its President, the national representative Polina Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u75	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 2 April 2015, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed a bill supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Boil Banov, Deputy Minister, and Tanya Andreeva, Parliamentary Secretary. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Boyl Banov. The draft aims to return to the list........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, known as the ban list for Privatization. From the banning list in December 2011 the commercial company "Audivideo Orpheus" EAD is the only specialized enterprise in the country to perform digital restoration of film archive material, a kind of guarantor for the preservation of the national cultural heritage. Bulgarian music and conditions for the realization of Bulgarian musicians help the preservation of Bulgarian music culture and traditions in accordance with national policies. The reason to remove this trading company from the prohibition list in February 2013 is its severe financial situation and the factual inability to operate. This condition is already overcome, the company is profitable and functioning normally. During the discussion the MPs expressed strong support for the bill. Following the debates held, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 15 votes to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 502-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. By the importers under the first draft Law No 554-01-35, the people's representative Christian Vigenin has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will present the Bill in just a few words, as it turns out that the Council of Ministers and I are importing identical bills. I just want to say that the Diplomatic Property Agency in the country has been the subject of specific privatization interests more than once over the years. I am pleased that the decision that was taken by the previous majority of GERB in the parliament in 2011. To remove it from the ban list and to put it on the counter, it has already been revised. I thank the members of the Economic Commission, who unanimously supported the proposals of my and my colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria, and the proposal of the Council of Ministers: ADIS Ltd. to be included again in the ban list. The Bulgarian state needs this instrument of its policy. ADIS Ltd. is a company that performs specific functions. In the years other countries that have allowed themselves to privatize such companies, I am talking about countries from Central and Eastern Europe, which have had similar schemes of work with foreign diplomatic representations, have faced serious problems then to carry out these functions. This was part of the analysis of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when we stopped the privatisation of the company in 2013. The time has not come to put him back on the ban list. Once again, I am pleased that, at least today, there seems to be a consensus about putting the company back on the ban list. Let's hope that there will be no separate property taken out of it, as I have heard there are, from different countries: comments from the Ministry of Economy, too. I hope that it will remain in its entirety so that it can perform its functions normally, generate the necessary profits, renew the fund and be able to continue to work sustainablely on the market so that it is not a burden on the Bulgarian state, but vice versa. I call on you to support these decisions and I hope that, both in the Economic Commission and in Parliament, this decision will be widely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. On the other two bills with importer, the Council of Ministers, do the importers want to take part? No. I'm opening the debate. I recall that the bills are three: one belongs to Mr Christian Vigenin and two of the Council of Ministers, of which the latter is identical to Mr Christian Vigenin's Bill. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 554-01-36, with the importer national representative Christian Vigenin. The Commission has given its opinion in support of the proposed Draft. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously at first reading. I vote on the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 March 2015, No 502-01-21. Please vote. The Commission's opinion is to support the bill. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The bill was unanimously adopted in the first vote. I put to the vote a bill with importer the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2015, No 502-01-25. The Economic Commission's opinion is to support the bill. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECORDING CLIMATE CHANGE. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015 With the report from the Committee on Environment and Water, Mrs. Cornelia Marinova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 502-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015. At its regular meeting on 2 April 2015, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 502-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Water attended the meeting: Mr. Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Boryana Kamenova Director of the Directorate of Climate Change and Mrs. Veneta Borikova Head of the Department of International Emissions Trading Mechanisms. On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Pavel Gudgerov and Mrs. Boryana Kamenova. The main objective of the proposed changes is the complete consolidation and systematization of climate change legislation in a common legal framework at national level, updating the Climate Change Reduction Act, which was adopted by the Forty-second National Assembly in February 2014, which entered into force on 11 March 2014. As regards the transposition of the consolidated version of Directive 2003/87/EC in April 2014, the Republic of Bulgaria sent to the European Commission a list of national acts transposing that Directive and all its amendments, including Directive 2008/101/EC. In April 2014, the European Commission made a preliminary request concerning specific provisions of the two directives due to alleged non-compliance with national measures transposing the European act. Following an official reply sent to the European Commission, although a significant part of the arguments of the Ministry of Environment and Water are accepted, a recommendation is made to supplement, modify and refine the provisions of the Climate Change Reduction Act. The Ministry of Environment and Water made a commitment immediately after the constitution of the Forty- Third National Assembly to prepare a Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Climate Change and to submit it to the Assembly in the shortest possible time in order to avoid initiating infringement proceedings against Bulgaria. At the same time, in addition to the amendments imposed, some of the provisions of the Law have been refined, references have been made to acts of the European Union which entered into force after the promulgation of the Climate Change Act and texts transposing more complete texts of the directive are included. Attitudes on the submitted bill took: the People's Representative Georgi Bojinov on the amendments to the last directive and the People's Representative Borislav Velikov on the name of the Law, received answers from Mrs. Boryana Kamenova. Following the end of the debates and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 16 votes........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u81	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 502-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 8 April 2015, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 502-01-24. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Waters.. Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister; Mrs. Boryana Kamenova Director of the Department of Climate Change. Veneta Borikova Head of the Department of International Emissions Trading Mechanisms................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The bill was presented by Pavel Gudzherov (Deputy Minister of Environment and Water). According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed Draft is changes resulting from the transposition of the consolidated version of Directive 2003/87/EC and all its amendments, including Directive 2008/101/EC. The bill provides for the clarification of texts and the inclusion of new ones transposing the texts of Directive 2003/87/EC more fully. With the subsequent vote with results: supposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Climate Change, No 502-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. On behalf of the importers? There's no one to talk to. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. There are no speakers. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Climate Change, No 502-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The bill amending and supplementing the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 502-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2015, was unanimously adopted in the first vote. Procedure Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u83	Colleagues, I have a proposal to shorten the time limits for submitting proposals on the draft laws that we have voted on to three days. These are the two LIDs of the Council of Ministers and one proposal by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs. Since absolutely and unanimously everything has been adopted, I propose that 3 days be the deadline for proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u84	After consultation it turned out that a general report should be drawn up first and then make this proposal, Mr. Kanev. I'm not going to put this motion to a vote. You're withdrawing it. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPH AGENCY, INCLUDING AND FINANCIAL REPORT 2013 AND REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN TELEGRAPH AGENCY, INCLUDING AND FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE PERIOD 30 June 2014 The first report is No 504-00-10, submitted by the Director-General of BTA on 18 February 2015. The second report is No 504-00-11, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 18 February 2015. With the report of the Committee on Culture and Media, we will be introduced by its President, the national representative Polina Karastoyanova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose admission to the Chamber of the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency (BTA) Mr. Maxim Minchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u86	Please vote on the proposal made by Mrs. Karastoyanova. They voted 84 MPs: 83 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Minchev to the gym. Continue, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u87	Thank you. Honourable President, honourable Members, I present to your attention {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on an activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency including a financial statement for 2013, No 504-00-10, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 18 February 2015. and Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement, for the period 1 January 30 June 2014, No 504-00-11, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 18 February 2015. At a regular meeting of the Culture and Media Committee held on 19 March 2015, the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2013, No 504-00-10, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 18 February 2015 and the Activity Report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the period 1 January, 30 June 2014, No 504-11, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 18 February 2015. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency: Maxim Minchev General Director; Borislav Chalakov Deputy Director General; Evelina Andreeva Secretary-General; Dancho Antonov Financial Director and Boris Hamalski Chief Editor-in-Chief. The reports on the activities of the agency were presented by Mr. Maxim Minchev. The activity reports of the Agency for 2013 and the first half of 2014 shall be submitted as required by art. 16 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The Bulgarian Telegraph Agency performs a public function as a national independent information institute of the Republic of Bulgaria. The reports of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency provide information: about the location of the media market agency, its role as the main source of information about the world and the world for Bulgaria, partnerships contracts and foreign partners. The information activities of the agency, its financial situation, international contacts, the activities of the National Press Club and the network of regional press clubs of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency are detailed. In the reports of BTA are presented as unresolved problems with the unauthorised use of information by the national agency and the correct citation of the source of information for clients with a signed partnership contract, which damages the authority and scale of BTA. There is also the question of the need to change the deadlines for the Agency's report to the National Assembly. It is noted that the six-month period is insufficient to draw the necessary conclusions for the work of an agency. Issues were raised during the discussion on the protection of information, funding and digitalisation of the agency's archive. After the debates held, the MPs of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly: 1. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2013, No 504-00-10, submitted by the Director-General of BTA on 18 February 2015. 2. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement, for the period 1 January 30 June 2014, No 504-00-11, submitted by the Director-General of BTA on 18 February 2015. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u88	Dear Mrs. Karastoyanova, please inform the Chamber and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement, for the period 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report, for the period 1 January 2013 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are The second draft for ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement, for the period 1 January 2014 30 June 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 and 4 of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report, for the period 1 January This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u91	Dear Mr. President, if you would allow me to express my respect for the fact that today the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency is hosting the European meeting of the European Information Agencies. Mr. Minchev, congratulations from the Committee on Culture and Media and my colleagues in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u92	Mr. Minchev, would you like to take the floor? No. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. First, I vote on the draft decision concerning the period 1 January 2013. 31 December 2013 for the Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, which includes a financial statement for the same period. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for 2013, No 504-00-10, submitted by the Director-General of the Agency on 18 February 2015 was adopted unanimously. I put to the vote the second draft decision concerning the activity of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial report, for the period 1 January 2014. On 18 February 2015, the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency submitted a report to the National Assembly on 30 June 2014. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The activity report of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including the financial statement, for the period 1 January 2014. 30 June 2014, No 504-00-11, submitted by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 18 February 2015 was unanimously adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015, adopted at the first vote on 19 February 2015. The report will introduce us to the Chairman of the Energy Commission, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Report on the Energy Efficiency Bill No 502-01-7 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 January 2015, adopted on the first vote on 19 February This Decision shall The Commission notes that the Commission has not provided any comments on the compatibility of the measure The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u94	Statements? I won't. I submit the text of the importer on the name of the Law, as well as the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission supports them. Please vote. Please cancel the vote. The roll call list, please. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] Cancel the roll call check. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u95	I'm making a procedural proposal to re-vote. I saw several colleagues fail to vote. [[Laughter and excitement from GERB]] So I'd like you to submit a re-vote procedure. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u96	There was no vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u97	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as the text of the importer for the name of Chapter One. The Commission supports them. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer on the name of the Law and on the name of Chapter 1 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u98	Under art. 1 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version: Art. 1. (1) This law governs public relations relating to the conduct of the state policy to increase energy efficiency. (2) The law shall apply to the final consumption of energy by the armed forces, in so far as it does not conflict with the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria or any other national security law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u99	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 1 by importer, as presented to you by the Chairman of the Energy Commission. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The text of art. 1, according to the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u100	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The law aims to increase energy efficiency as part of the country's sustainable development policy by: 1. use of a system of activities and measures to increase energy efficiency in production, transmission and distribution, as well as in the final consumption of energy; 2. introducing energy savings obligations schemes; 3. developing the market for energy efficient services and promoting the provision of energy efficient services; 4. the introduction of financial mechanisms and schemes supporting the implementation of the national energy efficiency target.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u101	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 2 according to the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The text of art. 2 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u102	"Chapter 2" - General Governments in the field of energy efficiency and energy efficiency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I" "Management Authorities". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u103	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Two, Section I and the text of the importer for art. 3. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The text of the importer for the name of Chapter Two, the name of Section I and the text of art. Three are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u104	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The National Assembly adopts the National Energy Efficiency Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, which determines the stages, means and measures for achieving the national energy efficiency target. The adopted strategy is promulgated in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u105	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 4. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The editing of art. 4 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u106	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The Council of Ministers defines state policy on energy efficiency as part of the policy on sustainable development of the country. (2) In carrying out its functions under para. 1 The Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Energy submit for adoption by the National Assembly the national strategy for Energy efficiency of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The Council of Ministers shall adopt: 1. national energy efficiency action plans; 2. national plan for buildings with close to zero energy consumption; 3. a national plan for improving the energy performance of heated and/or cooled buildings used by the state administration; 4. a national long-term programme to promote investments to implement measures to improve the energy performance of buildings from the public and private national housing and commercial building fund; 5. annual reports on the implementation of the national energy efficiency action plans; 6. regulations and other acts in the field of energy efficiency in the cases provided for in this law. (4) For the purposes of determining state policy in the field of energy efficiency, state authorities and The mayors of municipalities shall ensure that the information is provided, necessary for the preparation of the acts under para. 2 and para. 3, c. 1... (5) The information under para. 4 shall be made available to the authorities referred to in Article 4. 6 and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited text of the importer, according to the Commission report, for art. 5. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The text of the Commission, in accordance with its report on art. Five has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u108	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. The State Energy Efficiency Policy shall be conducted by: 1. the Minister of Energy in the field of energy efficiency in the production, transport and distribution of energy, as well as in the final consumption of energy; 2. the Minister of Economy in the field of increasing energy efficiency in small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as in the consumption of energy from industrial systems; 3. the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in the field of the development and implementation of technical rules and norms in the field of energy performance of new and existing buildings, the realization of projects related to renovation of the residential building fund and improvement of energy efficiency in residential buildings in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the field of energy efficiency Transport sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited text of the importer of art. 6 according to the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The text of art. Six, according to the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u110	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Minister of Energy: 1. develop together with the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and submit for approval by the Council of Ministers the national energy efficiency strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. develop jointly with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications the national energy efficiency action plans it provides to the European Commission; 3. participate jointly with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in the development and updating of the national plan for buildings with close to zero energy consumption and provide the plan to the European Commission; 4. participate in the development and updating of the national plan for improving the energy performance of heated and/or cooled buildings of state property used by the state administration; 5. participate in the development and updating of the national long-term investment promotion programme implementing energy improvement measures characteristics of buildings from public and private national residential and commercial building fund; 6. submit for adoption by the Council of Ministers the annual reports under art. 5, para. 3, p. 5 and make them available to the European Commission; 7. interact with other state and local authorities, as well as with non-profit legal entities regarding the conduct of state policy in the field of energy efficiency; 8. develop regulations to align Bulgarian legislation in the field of energy efficiency with European Union law; 9. develop and submit draft regulations to the Council of Ministers for adoption in the cases provided for in this Law; 10. issue, independently or jointly with the ministers concerned, energy efficiency regulations within the limits of its powers under this law; 11. establish a methodology for assessing the amount of contributions by the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 in the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund and in other financial intermediaries necessary to achieve their individual objectives on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development; 12. approve methodologies for the assessment of energy savings prepared according to the regulation under art. 18, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 13. provide the competent institutions of the European Union with the information provided for in European Union law; 14. in accordance with its powers, requests and notifications to the competent institutions of the European Union for temporary exemption from the application of provisions of European Union law and transitional periods in the field of energy efficiency in the cases provided for in European Union law; 15. implement the international cooperation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of energy efficiency; 16. shall also exercise other powers in the field of energy efficiency conferred on it by a regulatory act. (2) The content, structure, conditions and arrangements for providing the information under para. 1, t. 13 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 13. 9, para. 4 of the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 7 by importer. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The text of art. 7 has been adopted in accordance with the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u112	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. Minister of Economy within its competence: 1. participate in the development of the national energy efficiency strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. participate in the development of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plans and provide the Minister of Energy annually by 1 March of the year following the reporting year with information on their implementation; 3. propose schemes to encourage the carrying out of energy audits of small and medium-sized enterprises under art. 3 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, as well as the implementation of the measures recommended by the audits; 4. proposes schemes to promote energy efficiency measures in industrial systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited text by the Commission to art. It's an eight-by-eight importer. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The text of art. 8 has been adopted unanimously according to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u114	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works within its competence: 1. participate in the development of the national energy efficiency strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. participate in the development of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plans and provide the Minister of Energy annually by 1 March of the year following the reporting year with information on their implementation; 3. develop and update together with the Minister of Energy and submit for adoption by the Council of Ministers the national plan for buildings with close to zero energy consumption; 4. develop and update together with the Minister of Energy and import for adoption by the Council of Ministers the national plan for improving the energy performance of heated and/or cooled buildings, state property used by the state administration; 5. develop and update jointly with the Minister of Energy and import for adoption by the Council of Ministers the national long-term investment promotion programme implementing energy improvement measures characteristics of buildings from public and private national residential and commercial building fund; 6. issue alone or jointly with the relevant Ministers regulations relating to energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited text by the Commission to art. Nine by importer. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. Article 9 has been unanimously adopted in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u116	Article 10. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. The Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications within its competence: 1. participate in the development of the national energy efficiency strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. participate in the development of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plans and provide the Minister of Energy annually by 1 March of the year following the reporting year with information on their implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u117	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. Ten by importer. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The text of the Commission for art. Ten on her report was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u118	Article 11. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The activities of conducting the state policy to increase energy efficiency shall be implemented by the Executive Director of the Sustainable Energy Development Agency, hereinafter referred to as the Agency. (2) The Agency shall be a legal person of budgetary maintenance with the seat of Sofia and shall have the status of executive agency with the Minister of Energy. (3) The activities, structure and organisation of the work of the Agency shall be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers. (4) For the implementation of its activities the agency shall establish territorial units in the areas under art. 4, para. 3 of the Regional Development Act. The settlements of the territorial units shall be defined in the Rules of Procedure of para. 3. (5) The Executive Director of the Agency shall be appointed and released by the Minister of Energy in agreement with the Prime Minister. (6) The Executive Director of the Agency shall: 1. manage and represent the Agency; 2. exercise control over compliance with energy efficiency legislation; 3. interacts with state and local authorities as well as with legal entities regarding the conduct of state policy in the field of energy efficiency; 4. organize the preparation and presentation of annually to the Minister of Energy for approval the reports under art. 5, para. 3, p. 5; 5. publish annually by 31 March a list of buildings under art. 27, para. 1, t. 4 which, on 1 January of the relevant year, do not meet the minimum energy performance requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 31, para. 4; 6. develop a methodology for assessing the amount of contributions by the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 in the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund and in other financial intermediaries necessary to achieve their individual objectives; 7. confirm the amount of energy savings resulting from the energy efficient services and other measures to increase energy efficiency by issuing certificates of energy savings; 8. organise the establishment and maintenance of a national information system on the state of energy efficiency; 9. assist the state and local authorities as well as the participants in the energy efficient services market in the performance of their obligations under this law; 10. organise the promotion of activities and measures to increase energy efficiency; 11. promote the development of energy efficiency training and publish on the Agency's website existing qualification schemes; 12. organise the establishment and maintenance of a list of buildings, enterprises, industrial systems, external artificial lighting systems, heating installations with hot water boilers and air conditioning installations for which compliance with the requirements of this Act is required; 13. draw up, maintain and publish on the Agency's website a list of financial mechanisms and schemes to promote energy efficiency that is updated annually; 14. participate in the development of regulations, including methodologies for assessing energy savings, to align Bulgarian energy efficiency legislation with European Union law; 15. requires, in accordance with its powers, information from the managing authorities of European Union operational programmes relating to the provision of funding for the implementation of energy saving measures and the recovery of renewable energy, on the amount of investments made to implement energy saving measures and the recovery of energy from renewable sources, as well as those achieved as a result of these investments, energy savings levels and decentralised consumption of energy from renewable sources; 16. organise the preparation of indicative contracts with a guaranteed result (ECO contracts) to provide energy efficient services for the implementation of energy efficiency measures in buildings, industrial systems and external artificial lighting systems; 17. monitor the implementation of ECCO contracts in buildings state and municipal property; 18. shall also exercise other powers in the field of energy efficiency conferred on it by a regulatory act. (7) The Agency shall be the administrator of the proceeds from: 1. funds from the state budget; 2. own activity; 3. fines and property penalties imposed under this law; 4. international programmes and agreements; 5. other sources defined by the Act of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u119	Statements? Here you are.. the People's Representative Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal I am making is editorial and is in sync with what colleagues from GERB have made as a proposal under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1.................................................................................. 11, para. 6, p. 8 to drop out the words of creation and of creation, as the information system exists, we do not have to create it yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u121	Alinea 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u122	Alinea 6, t. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u123	..organize the creation and......................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u124	It's 8 o'clock. he's organizing the maintenance....because he has it. That's my offer. I think he's in line with art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u125	Mr. Dobrev?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u126	If I may, in the form of a line. Honourable Members, the colleague's proposal is in point. 8 The text provides for the establishment and maintenance of the National Energy Efficiency Information System, as such a system has, even though it is a new law, to drop the words of the creation and of the text and to say: "Protecting the maintenance of the National Energy Efficiency Information System." In my opinion, this proposal is reasonable, and if you consider it editorial, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u127	Moreover, since such a system exists, there is no way to create it yet. Once.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u129	First, I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Tasco Ermenkov for dropping out in para. Article 6 11, p. 8 the expression "creating" and "creating." Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The proposal made by the MP Tasco Ermenkov is accepted. I shall put to the vote the edited text by the Commission to art. 11 by importer along with the proposal just made by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, which has already been accepted. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The text of the Commission report for art. 11 together with the proposal made by the MP Tasco Ermenkov were unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u130	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 12: Art. 12. (1) State energy efficiency policy shall be implemented by all state and local authorities. (2) For the purposes of para. 1 state and local authorities shall develop and adopt energy efficiency programmes corresponding to the objectives set out in the acts under art. Art. 4 and art. 5, para. 3, p. 1-4. (3) Programs under para. 2 shall be developed taking into account the strategic objectives and priorities of the regional development plans of the relevant regions under art. 4, para. 3 of the Regional Development Act and their prospects for sustainable economic development. (4) The funds for the implementation of the programmes under para. 2 shall be provided within the budgets of the public authorities and of the municipalities. (5) State and local authorities shall submit annually to the Executive Director of the Agency reports on the implementation of the programmes under para. 2. (6) The reports under para. 5 shall contain a description of the activities and measures, indicate the amount of energy savings achieved and shall be presented no later than 1 March of the year following the year of implementation of the relevant activities and measures. (7) The accounts under para. 5 shall be drawn up on a template approved by the Executive Director of the Agency. (8) The report on the implementation of the national energy efficiency action plan shall include information on: 1. the implementation of the national energy efficiency target; 2. primary and final energy consumption; 3. final energy consumption and gross added value by sector; 4. the available income of households; 5. gross domestic product; 6. the production of electricity from thermal power plants; 7. the production of electricity through cogeneration of heat and electricity; 8. the production of heat from thermal power plants; 9. the production of heat from combined heat plants, including industrial waste heat; 10. fuel consumption for the production of heat; 11. passenger kilometres (pkm), in case the information is available; 12. tonne-kilometre (tkm) in case the information is available; 13. combined transport kilometers (pkm+tkm), if the information under point 11 and 12 is not available; 14. the population of the country; 15. measures implemented in the previous year which contribute to the achievement of the national energy efficiency target, as well as the reported and/or expected effect of those measures; 16. the full area of the buildings under Art. 16. 23, para. 1 and 2; 17. the energy savings achieved through the energy efficiency obligations scheme; 18. the amount of public energy efficiency expenditure, including by sector. (9) Reports under para. 5 shall be published on the websites of the bodies under para. 1. (10) The accounts under para. 8 shall be published on the Agency's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u131	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the edited text of the Commission under art. 12. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Article 12 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u132	"Department II" "Energy efficiency targets." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u133	We vote on the name of Section II by importer, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 81 against 1, no abstentions. The text of the importer for the name of Section II has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u134	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The national energy efficiency target shall be defined as the amount of savings in primary and final energy consumption by 31 December 2020. (2) The national objective under para. 1 shall be defined in the national energy efficiency action plan. (3) In determining the purpose under para. 1 account shall be taken of the estimated primary energy consumption by 31 December 2020, determined on the basis of: 1. the potential for saving energy in an economically efficient way; 2. the development of gross domestic product and its forecasts; 3. changes in the quantities imported and exported energy; 4. the recovery of energy from renewable sources, the use of nuclear energy, the construction of installations for carbon capture and storage; 5. the measures in force to increase energy efficiency implemented in the past period.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u135	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text edited by the Commission of the importer for art. 13. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Article 13 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u136	Under art. 14 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Neykov, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) In order to support the implementation of the national energy efficiency target, an energy savings obligation scheme shall be introduced to ensure the achievement of a common cumulative target for energy savings in final energy consumption by 31 December 2020. (2) The general cumulative objective under para. 1 for the period 2014-2020 is defined as the accumulation of new energy savings of at least 1,5 per cent per year from the average annual value of the total energy sales of the end customers in the country in 2010, 2011 and 2012, with the exception of the amount of energy sales used in the transport sector under the code "B_101900' according to Eurostat statistics. (3) The purpose under para. 2 shall be reduced by up to 25 percent by excluding the quantities of energy sales used in industrial activities under Annex 1 of the Climate Change Reduction Act and by applying para. 5, t. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 16, p. 1 and 2. (4) The general cumulative objective under para. 1 shall be allocated as individual energy savings targets to the following debtors: 1. final suppliers, suppliers of last resort, traders with issued licence for the activity of the electricity trading company that sell electricity to end customers more than 20 GWh per year; 2. heat transfer plants and heat suppliers that sell heat to final customers more than 20 GWh per year; 3. final suppliers and natural gas traders selling more than 1 million to final customers. cubic meters per year; 4. merchants with liquid fuels that sell to end customers more than 6.5 thousand. tonnes of liquid fuels per year, excluding fuels for transport purposes; 5. traders with solid fuels that sell to end customers more than 13 thousand. tonnes of solid fuels per year. (5) When determining the overall cumulative objective under para. 1 the following values can be used to calculate energy savings in the amount: 1. 1 per cent per year for 2014 and 2015; 2. 1,25 per cent per year for 2016 and 2017; 3. 1.50 per cent per year for 2018, 2019 and 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u137	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of art. 14 by importer. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Article 14 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u138	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MP Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The individual energy savings targets shall be annual energy savings for final customers for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020. (2) The individual annual objectives under para. 1 shall be defined as the average annual value of the total amount of energy sales to the final customers in the country in 2010, 2011 and 2012 shall be allocated in proportion to those sold by the relevant debtor under art. 14, para. 4 amounts of energy of final customers in the previous year. (3) The list of debtors under art. 14, para. 4 and their individual annual targets shall be updated annually according to the change in the volume of sales of the debtor concerned compared to the total volume of sales of all debtors for the previous year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u139	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of art. 15 by importer. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. Article 15 has been adopted unanimously in accordance with the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u140	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. Taking into account the implementation of individual annual targets, the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 may include, in addition to saved amounts of energy in end customers, and saved amounts of energy: 1. of measures implemented after 31 December 2008, which continue to operate until 31 December 2020; 2. of measures to increase energy efficiency in the production, transport and/or distribution of energy; 3. achieved in the previous four or the following three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u141	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 16 by importer. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Article 16 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u142	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. To meet individual energy savings goals, the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 may benefit from a reduction of their individual annual target by one hundred when providing the information under art. 63, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-04-22.u143	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 17 by importer. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. Article 17 on the Commission report has been adopted unanimously. It's 13.59. I am adjourning today's plenary session. Tomorrow we continue according to the program we adopted today, at the beginning of the day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
