ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, according to our weekly programme as point one for today is provided: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND FOR PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES AND SELECTION OF INSPECTORS TO THE HIGH COURT COUNCIL. A report of the Committee on Legal Affairs has been submitted together with the draft decision and its annexes. Mr. Kirilov, we are listening to the Commission's report on the draft decision and applications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and choosing inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. At its meeting held on 9 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the issue of the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Selection of Inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The need to conduct the public procedure arises from the expiry of the mandate of the inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council on the basis of art. 44, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. In order to implement the provision of art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the basis of art. 89, ) (a.k.a. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose to adopt procedural rules for the election of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and selecting inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and the selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: I. Offering candidates and submission of the documents of the candidates for inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council 1. Proposals for candidates for inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall be made by Members of the National Assembly in writing to the Committee on Legal Affairs within 10 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organisations may propose candidates for inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council of Members of the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: - written consent of the applicant according to the template - detailed CV; - a copy of a diploma for completed higher legal education; - a statement according to template "Annex 2" to the decision that the circumstances under art. 18, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 42, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary; - evidence of criminality; - A certificate from the National Investigation Service. 3. Each candidate shall submit to the Committee on Legal Affairs: - concept of his work as an inspector in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council on paper and electronic media; - a statement of his property status and the origin of the funds for the acquisition of his property according to a model approved by the Minister of Justice. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents referred to in Section I shall be published on the special section on the website of the National Assembly. The name and the reasons of the Member of the National Assembly who proposed the candidate shall be published. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, universities and scientific organisations may submit to the Committee on Legal Affairs opinions on the applicant, including issues to be addressed to him. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I " No 1, Committee on Legal Affairs, or by e-mail: kpv1@parliament.bg no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The opinions and questions shall be published on the special section of the website of the National Assembly and on the website of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published, as well as the facts of the intimate life of persons. III. Verification of admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Committee on Legal Affairs at a separate meeting prior to the hearing shall verify whether all the necessary documents have been submitted and whether the proposed candidates comply with the requirements for taking up the position of Inspector in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. Where the Committee on Legal Affairs finds that a candidate has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform him that he may submit them within five days of notification. 3. No applicants who have not submitted the documents under Section I or who do not meet the requirements of art. 42, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. 4. Following the verification, the Commission on Legal Affairs shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be drawn up in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published on the special section on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of admissions for inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council 1. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall only hear the applicants admitted on their order on the list. 3. An importer of the proposal shall present the applicant at an exhibition within two minutes. 4. The applicant is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as an inspector in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council in an exhibition within 10 minutes for each candidate. 5. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, universities and scientific organisations. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 6. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after asking a question to him. The answer time for each question is up to 2 minutes. 7. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit to the National Assembly a report from the hearing to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to elect an inspector in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. V. Selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. Applicants shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal according to their order set out in a list drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 3. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report to the hearing held. 4. Following the presentation of the report, the National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidates who have received the most votes have been selected, subject to the majority requirement laid down in art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 7. If more than ten candidates receive the required number of votes as required by art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and of art. 46 of the Law on the Judiciary, among the candidates who received the required but least equal number of votes, is held a runoff and the one who received the most votes is considered elected, but not less than two thirds of the total number of MPs. The Decision is attached to Annex No 1.. Declaration and Annex No
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u3	And thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Dear colleagues, we are going into debate mode on the draft decision. I remind you that debates are like a bill at first reading. You have the limits of parliamentary groups. Please, speeches. Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft rules are largely standardized for other elections made by the National Assembly. I believe that there are no substantial amendments to what the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes. However, I have one suggestion: in Section I, point. 1, 10-day deadline to be replaced by 14 days. These 10 days are too short a time, not from the publication of the rules in the Official Journal, but from their adoption at today's meeting. They are insufficient because it is necessary for parliamentary groups to have sufficient time to be able to take this issue seriously and, if they decide to make proposals, to be able to really analyse possible proposals. In addition, the candidates themselves must prepare a number of documents, and the issuance of some of them or their filling, also requires separation of such time, note: a criminal record which is not received on the day of the submission of the application, a certificate from the National Investigation Service, to draw up a concept of their work as inspectors and a statement of property, especially if there have been changes from the latter which they submit for the publicity of the income for certain officials. In the particular situation of this period, we must also remove the coming four days off. I do not think that anyone can seriously claim that in these four days actions can be planned which solve various business issues. I also recommend that when such rules are proposed in the future, the time limit should run from the publication of the decision. Although the meetings of the National Assembly themselves are public, we address these decisions not to ourselves. These are not solutions for the time limits for proposals between first and second readings, which concern only the National Assembly, these are solutions that potentially refer to a wide range of addressees. Here, the publicity of the National Assembly must also be really protected and it must be relied on that more people will receive this information and not only those to whom the possible participation in one or another state institution has been promised in advance. Similar was the situation recently when the Rules of Proposal for a Member of the Constitutional Court were adopted. I see that these deadlines are compressed and, apart from the expiry of certain mandates, I think that these short-terms have other objectives. One is that there is not enough time for more proposals from different originators to take place, the second, the time to be short, so as not to allow for a public professional discussion on the applications that will be proposed. Within three, four or five days, it is not enough even sometimes professional environments that are relevant to the subject to be able to seriously analyse the activities of candidates, certain manifestations of their professional or public life. I think that these motives are sufficient, and if we want to take this choice as seriously as possible, especially in the context of the widely proclaimed changes of the judiciary, including at a constitutional level, I believe that this proposal should be supported. I do not see any reason not to respect this non-long term, but still a better deadline, which is offered...................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Your proposal was editorial. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I fully support the arguments you have presented. They were discussed in the Legal Commission. He had a 14-day offer. However, I reject all other assumptions about the shortening of the deadline. The only reason is this: on the time schedule, as we sign the procedure, if the deadline is 14 days, it means on 26 December in the Chamber to produce the choice, which is impossible because it is at Christmas. Parliament will not work on Christmas and New Year's holidays, and the term expires on 19 January. That would be the only problem and the reason in this relationship. As I presented in the report, the Legal Commission has examined and adopted the Rules on 9 September. You can see that we are looking at them in the Chamber 10 days after this adoption and almost would not have entered this weekly program, as a matter of fact. I appeal to all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, when drawing up the plenary session programme, when we have an forthcoming public procedure, simply let the Rules come in for a priority discussion. We will generally support this deadline, but I say: we block and sabotage the most recent date in this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u7	Thank you. Second line? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, you are a representative of the majority and you could have insisted that these Rules be included on the agenda last week, because it will hardly take more than half an hour to discuss and vote. Then your argument is off. But even today, the fact that the time limits expire during Christmas does not seem to be fatal because Parliament's vacation is in the first days after the New Year and it is possible that at one of the first meetings after the break, on the date of January 19th, the phase in plenary is completed where the election takes place. I believe that even under these conditions there will be nothing to violate the continuity of the Chambers of the Inspectorate as soon as the term of office of the current Chamber is completed, the new Members will be able to enter when they are voted by the National Assembly. I say again, even right after Christmas break, at the first plenary sessions of the New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u9	Thank you. People's representative Petar Slavov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We in the Reformation Block also intended to initially propose that the deadline be extended to 14 days, colleagues, because I will remind you how the Chief Inspector was elected to the Supreme Judicial Council after many failures. In fact, with the help of the non-governmental sector, this National Assembly was able to elect a Chief Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council. Here, obviously, the assistance of the non-government sector, of all these prestigious NGOs, who also proposed a candidate, such as the Union of Judges, such as the Lawyers' Union, such as the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives, not to list them all, I think there were 22 then, obviously they will need a little time to hold meetings, to broadcast possible joint applications. Remember that we must choose 10 people and each one of them must receive two thirds of the majority in plenary. So this is an awkward task, and it seems to me that we should really leave only 10 days, of which six days off, pre-eminently raises questions as to whether the task will be brought to a successful conclusion. I want to tell you one more important thing, and it is about the criteria for candidates themselves. I don't know if you've been impressed, but in the so-called..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, no subsequent verification within the meaning of the Law has been provided for them once they have been selected. In order not to leave any ambiguities and doubts of any nature to the people to be chosen, I propose that we take advantage of the opportunity which gives us art. 27 of this Law, in its para. 1, t. It allows the authority that will make a choice to carry out such an examination in advance by asking the so-called "Commission for the files' to carry out that examination. I suggest you in Section II, t. 4 to add a new sentence to the Presidency, with the following words:....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law establishing possible belonging of candidates to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and announcing on its page the results of the inspection. Thank you. [[Gives the text with the proposal of the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u11	Thank you. This is the last sentence added in Section II, t. Four?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u12	Point 4, final new sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u13	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, I have accepted an invitation and next week the NGOs that monitor the public procedures made by the National Assembly will be at a discussion in Parliament under the auspices of the Legal Commission, so we will have the opportunity to meet all the requirements of the NGOs in the details of the conduct of the procedures with us. However, as we measure our populism, I suggest that the deadline be 17 days. With regard to the other proposal, I will not take an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u15	I don't get it. Are you making some kind of editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u16	Yes, I am making a proposal that the deadline for submission of 10 days proposed by Mr. Stoilov; 14 by Mr. Slavov will be 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u17	Second line? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u18	Thanks for the line, Mr. Kirilov. I don't take it as a measure of populism, but as a constructivism of what you suggested. We'll support him. Of course, a 17-day term is even better than a 14-day period. There is plenty of time for the procedure to develop without delay if we are all constructive and efficient. Let's really pick the best candidates and give the non-governmental sector a chance to help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u19	Thank you. Here's your speech, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I would also like to develop the thesis that Mr. Slavov started. In the criteria for applying for the post of Inspector to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, to actually place such a requirement for prior verification, because in this National Assembly there is a majority that has a tradition in this direction. Let me just remind you that with regard to the security services laws, all laws: the Law on the NSA, the Law on the State Agency, the Law on the Military Information Act in the requirements of the documents to be submitted for applying for the chiefs and directors of these services of the Commission at second reading, we all agreed that there should be a prior inspection in order for the public to know in advance who are candidates for these important posts. Here we are talking about some extremely important figures in the judiciary, people who will be doing field checks. We need to make sure that these people do not have hidden addictions and influences that would influence their decisions. I therefore refer to the people who have this thinking in this National Assembly. This is a principle that has been adopted by GERB and by the Reformation Bloc, I hope it will also be adopted by the patriots to have maximum publicity when raising applications to such important places, all the more so that there is one omission in the Law on Files, as Mr. Slavov said already elected at these posts, they cannot be checked. This is not a ban on participation, I repeat, it is not a ban on participation in the competition, it is a maximum illumination of possible dependence of the specific persons. I therefore call on all those people who want this to happen and not to have anything uncovered to the public to support this proposal. I have another proposal that will most likely cause some confusion in one of my colleagues. To be exact, over the years that have passed, there have been two spectacular scandals in the judiciary. Both grand scandals were related to the cadre outside. It's a climb that can't be explained. As they do in the United States of America, when some people enter the judiciary, they become important figures there, they should declare that they have no belonging to secret Masonic organizations. Both scandals, I repeat, which shook the public then, and about a week they wrote the media about them, were associated with doubts about such a cadre. I think it's okay for us to be members of whatever organizations we want, but such secret organizations that allow secret, behind-the-scenes actions must be made public in a special declaration. I therefore call for such a declaration to be also in these criteria. By the way, one must be clear that when a person is a member of such an organization, he can say about himself, he cannot say about others. So we are in no way violating the statutes of these organisations. Let there be a declaration! That's very good.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I want to support colleagues Metodi Andreev and Peter Slavov with the following argument. There should be such a check for belonging to the State Security and to the services of the Communist regime, because it is not lustration. If it turns out that a candidate has such an affiliation when the vote in parliament takes place, the MPs will be aware of who they vote for. I am convinced that the removal of belonging to these services will be a motive for certain MPs to vote for these candidates. So knowing who we vote for and who we vote for is very important. I would like to give you, unfortunately, the following bad example: during the last Committee on Economic Policy, I proposed that candidates for the Commission for Protection of Competition also declare or that there should be an inspection by the Commission on the files of belonging to the State Security and the services of the Communist regime under the Law on Files. Unfortunately, the President of BSP Petar Kanev refused this vote to be held, which gives me, of course, the opportunity to make a public inquiry to all these candidates, as I have done before, when they become known. So this isn't gonna go away. But the question is this: it's silly, colleagues, it's stupid for parliament to choose some candidates and tomorrow to turn out that they belong to State Security and some of you to have voted for them without knowing it. That is, if we make an informed choice, all the facts and all the important circumstances for a candidate should be clear. The function of the judicial inspector shall be verified in relation to the judicial system. It is important to know what people we choose, not after they are elected, to become a public scandal tomorrow and to prove that the people who have received the trust of the Bulgarian Parliament are not those who have been considered. The better the Bulgarian Parliament is informed, the better the choice it will make. And I repeat, this is not lustration, this is disclosure of important circumstances for applicants what they are, what they have done, how much they can be relied on. I call on the National Assembly to support the text Mr. Petar Slavov proposed and which was in some form supplemented by colleague Metodi Andreev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going through, honourable Members, in voting mode. I shall put to the vote the editorial proposal made in Section I, paragraph 1. 1 of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's wording the 10-day term to change in the 14-day term. Please, honourable Members, vote! They voted 98 MPs: 24, Against 1, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, the wording of the 10-day term, to be replaced by the 17-day term. Please vote! They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The editorial amendment has been adopted unanimously. I put to the vote the next editorial amendment proposed by the National Representative Petar Slavov in Section II. 4 to add the last sentence, which reads:............................................................................................................................................................... 27, p. 2 para. 1 of the Law establishing possible belonging of candidates and announcing on its page the results of the check. This is the Bureau of Records, more descriptively said. Please, honourable Members, we are voting on the editorial proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 77 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we are voting on the whole Project for a decision with the adopted editorial amendments. They voted 99 MPs: 99, none against, no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL MOVEMENT. Mrs. Damyanova, please report to Art. 133!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u24	Under art. 133 has a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133, para. 1 after the words "History and civilizations" the words "Religion" are added, "Ethics." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133, para. 1, the words "art." 131, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 130, para. 2.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by MP Stanislav Stanilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133, para. 1 after the words "History and civilizations" the words "Version" are added, "Ethics." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 133 is created. An additional state mature examination may be carried out under the subject of the "Horeography" if, according to the school curriculum, the student has studied the subject in the first and second secondary secondary school stages as a profiling school subject. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133 words "History and civilization" are replaced by "History." The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin is identical with the proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133, para. 1 after the word "Philosophy" is added "Horeography". In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133, para. 2 the words "second high school stage' shall be replaced by the words "in high school stage'. Art. 133, para. 6 is amended as follows: An additional state mature examination on the subject of the study is possible in a foreign language other than those referred to in para. 1 if, according to the school curriculum, the student has studied the relevant foreign language in the IX and X class and as a profiling study subject in the XI and XII grade. The Commission shall not support the proposal referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 6. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 7, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. Art. 119, Art. 137. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133, which becomes Art. 135.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u25	Statements? I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, we first vote on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 8 against 7, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from MP Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 6, against 2, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 7 against 6, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs together with the proposal from the National Representative Christian Vigenin, which is identical. The two proposals are not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 19 against 38, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which in the section under. 1 is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 11 against 3, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. We are voting on the unsupported part of the proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 11 against 46 abstentions 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 133, which becomes Art. 135, supported by the Commission. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 74, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u26	Under art. 134 has a proposal from the MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 134, which becomes art. 136: Art. 136. (1) Students studying under the terms of an international contract, which provides for, upon completion of secondary education, an examination of the official or one of the official languages of the State of the Contracting Party, may request that this examination be considered as a second compulsory state-of-the-art examination if the language of the State of the Contracting Party is among the foreign languages under art. 134, para. 2 and if the examination is carried out under the terms and conditions laid down in the international contract. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the assessment of the language exam submitted under the terms and conditions laid down in the international contract shall be entered in the secondary education diploma as an assessment of the second compulsory state mature examination. (3) The decree under para. 1 shall not apply to examinations which are assessed in a way that does not allow the result to be aligned to an assessment system operating in school education in the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The provisions of para. 1, 2 and 3 shall apply respectively in the case of training both according to state educational standards and according to the requirements of another Member State where an examination in the language of the Member State is required for the acquisition of secondary education and the examination is carried out under the conditions laid down in the legislation of that Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u27	Statements? I can't see. Vote art. 134 by importer who, following the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 136. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u28	Under art. 135 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 135, para. 5 after the word "supplied', the expression "pre-valuation of the valuation scale' shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 135, which becomes art. 137: Art. 137. (1) The study-experience programmes for the state age examinations to be applied to the educational content studied in the compulsory hours in both stages of secondary education shall be determined by the state educational standard for general education. (2) The study-experience programmes for the state age examinations to be applied to the educational content of the compulsory modules of the profiling study subject shall be determined by the state educational standard for the profiled preparation. (3) Formation of the overall success under art. 133, para. 1 as well as the arrangements for the organisation and conduct of the state age examinations shall be governed by the state educational standard for assessing the results of the students' training. (4) State maturity examinations on each subject shall be evaluated at national level by teachers and lecturers from higher schools. (5) The Ministry of Education and Science introduces a mechanism for publicity, transparency and annual analysis of the results of the state age examinations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u29	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 4, against 41, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Art. 135, which, after editing of the Commission, becomes art. 137. This is supported by the importer text which after editing becomes art. 137. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u30	Under art. 136 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 136. 1 and the expression "second high school stage' is replaced by the expression "high school stage'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 136, which becomes 138: Art. 138. (1) A mason who has not appeared or has failed some of the exams under art. 132, para. 2 or some of the exams under art. 132, para. 3, will be certified for the completion of the second secondary secondary education stage, which gives the right to vocational training. The certificate of completion of the second high school stage shall not grant the right to continue education. (2) A maturer who has not taken or has failed to pass an additional state mature examination shall acquire secondary education if he has successfully passed the compulsory state maturity examinations, respectively the state qualification examination. In these cases, only the completed additional state maturity exams shall be entered in the secondary education diploma. (3) The Matures under para. 1 may take state age examinations and state qualification exams without limitation of age and number of examination sessions, subject to the legal acts in force at the time of appearance. (4) The Matures under para. 1 pass only the mandatory state-of-the-art or state-of-the-art qualification exam by profession which they have failed. In any subsequent appearance of a state mature exam on profiling subject, the adult may change his choice of study subject under the conditions of art. 134, para. 2. (5) A Maturer who has successfully passed only the state exam for qualification by profession shall receive a certificate of professional qualification. Under the terms and conditions of the Professional Education and Training Act, a licence may also be obtained.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u31	Statements? I can't see. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 17 against 59, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on proposals by the importer for art. Art. 136, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 138. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 68, with no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 137, which becomes Art. 139. Under art. 138 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 138, which becomes Art. 140. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 139, which becomes art. 141.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u33	Statements? I can't see. We are voting together, supported by the Commission, by texts for art. 137, which becomes 139, Art. 138, which becomes 140 and art. 139, which becomes 141. We are voting for texts supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u34	Section IX. It's a reception plan. Posting and moving students. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IX.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u35	Statements? I won't. We are voting in favour of the Commission for the name of Section IX. Vote 78 MPs: 77, with no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u36	Under art. 140 has a proposal from the MPs Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 3 the following changes are made: 1. A new t. is created. 4. "4." schools with extended and profiled learning of music, fine art and choreography in I, V and VIII class. 2. points 4 and 5 become 5 and 6 respectively. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs and a proposal from the MP Kristian Vigenin and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposals. They are identical to the proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 2 the words at the stages shall be deleted. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. in t. 1 after the expression "Profiled High Schools" is added the expression "and persons" and at the end of the text is added the expression "or in IX grade"; 2. create a new t. 2 for the corresponding numbering of t. 2-5: "2." persons in the V class or in the VIII class; In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 4 and the expression "the high school stage' is replaced by the expression "the high school stage'. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 140, which becomes Art. 142: Art. 142. (1) Students shall enter the state and municipal schools at the places determined with the school, with the state and with the additional state-admission plan. (2) The school admission plan shall determine the number of places where the students enter the first of the classes of the primary and/or secondary stage, except for the cases under para. 3, p. 5 and for evening schools, special schools, schools to the places of imprisonment and Bulgarian schools abroad and for the first of the classes of the stages of the middle degree of education. This number may be changed by the Director in the following classes in accordance with the students actually enrolled. (3) The state acceptance plan shall determine the number of places where students are accepted in: 1. profiled high schools and in vocational schools, in the classes for profiled training in secondary schools and in vocational schools or in the classes for vocational training in united schools, in secondary schools and in the profiled high schools in VIII grade; 2. sports schools in V, in VI, in VII or in VIII grade; 3. the schools of arts in I, in V and in VIII grade; 4. the schools of culture in I, in V and in VIII grade; 5. V class in high schools under art. 38, para. 3. (4) The additional state plan shall determine the number of places where the students who graduated from the first high school secondary school from the united schools are accepted in the profiled high schools and in the vocational schools, in the courses for profiling or vocational training in secondary schools, as well as in the classes for profiling training in vocational schools and in the classes for vocational training in the profiled high school schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u37	Statements? I can't see. First, we vote on the proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs together with the proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin and a proposal identical to theirs by the National Representative Milen Mihov, who are not supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 21, against 30, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 15 against 56, abstentioned 12. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 140, which after the revision of the Commission becomes art. 142, we are voting in favour of the Commission text. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u38	Article 141. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Art. 141, para. 2, p. 4 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 4. The Minister of Education and Science for the Schools of Art. 37, para. Art. 4 and art. 38, para. 2, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Art. 141, para. 3 t. 2 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2 The Minister of Education and Science for the Schools under art. 37, para. 4 and 38, para. 2 t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 141, which becomes Art. 143: Art. 143. (1) The school plan shall be adopted before the beginning of the school year under the terms and conditions of the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education and subject to the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centers for support for personal development. (2) The State plan shall be accepted for each school year by order of: 1. the head of the regional education management for the schools under art. 142, para. 3, p. 1 and 5; 2. The Minister of Youth and Sports for the Schools of Art. 142, para. 3, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. The Minister of Culture for the Schools of Art. 142, para. 3, p. 3 and 4; 4. The Minister of Education and Science for the Schools of Art. 38, para. 4. (3) The additional state plan shall be accepted for each school year by order of: 1. the head of the regional education management for the schools under art. 142, para. 3, p. 1; 2. The Minister of Education and Science for the Schools of Art. 38, para. 4. (4) The State plan shall be adopted under para. 2, p. 1 and the additional state-acceptance plan under para. 3, p. 1 shall be validated in consultation with the funding body. (5) The conditions and procedure for validating the state admission plan for the schools under art. 142, para. 3, p. 1 and 5 and the additional state-acceptance plan shall be determined by the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education. (6) The conditions and procedure for validating the state admission plan for the schools under art. 142, para. 3, p. 2 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Youth and Sports and for the schools under art. 142, para. 3, p. 3 and 4 with a regulation of the Minister of Culture. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142, which becomes Art. 144.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u39	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal of Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 19 against 51, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 141, which becomes § 143, edited by the Commission, together with the text supported by the Commission of the importer for art. 142, which becomes Art. 144. Vote 89 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u40	Article 143. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 143, para. 1 after the word "Law" the expression is added as well as for an extended study of music, fine art and choreography. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 143. (1) The text of this paragraph shall be edited as follows: In addition to the cases provided for in this Law and for the extended study of music, fine art and choreography, the admission of students to I class cannot be carried out on the basis of an examination of their abilities. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the People's Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, ) (a.k.a. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 143, which becomes Art. 145: Art. 145. (1) Except in the cases laid down in this Law, the acceptance of students in the I class may not be carried out on the basis of an examination of their abilities. (2) The admission of the students in the eighth grade in the schools under art. 142, para. 3, p. 1 and of the students from the united schools in the 19th grade in the schools of art. 142, para. 4 as well as in cases provided for in the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education shall be carried out on the basis of the results of the national external evaluation. (3) In the cases under para. 2 A check of the capacities for profiles and specialties of professions defined by the state educational standard for the organization of activities in school education may also be carried out. (4) In the cases under para. 2 students from the united schools shall make equal exams when the school curriculums of the host school and the school from which the student is moved are developed on the basis of different framework or type training plans. (5) Students with special educational needs shall enter the special schools after evaluation and guidance under conditions and in accordance with the state educational standard for inclusive education. (6) Students who have received a certificate of completed 7th grade may continue their studies in a subsequent class after guidance from the regional centre for support of the process of inclusive education at the school under art. 142, para. 3, p. 1 under conditions and by order laid down by the state educational standard for inclusive education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u41	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 14, against 52, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 15 against 7, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 143, which, by the version of the Commission, becomes art. 145. Vote 84 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u42	Under art. 144 has a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 144, para. 1 after the words "Culture" the words "Mathematics schools" are added. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 2 is added a new item. 1 and the remaining points shall be renumbered: "1." by decree of the Minister of Education and Science for Mathematical and Mathematical Schools. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 144, which becomes Art. 146: Art. 146. (1) For students who are accepted according to a well-established state-acceptance plan in schools of culture, in schools of arts and in sports schools, as well as in schools with a profile of Music, Fine Arts, Physical Education and Sports, a skill check may be carried out. (2) The verification of capabilities shall be organised under conditions and in order specified by: 1. the regulations of the Minister of Culture for the Art Schools and for the Schools of Culture; 2. a regulation of the Minister of Youth and Sports for sports schools; 3. A regulation of the Minister of Education and Science for schools with profile Fine Arts, Music and Physical Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u43	Statements? I can't see. We are voting for a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 15 against 51 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Article 144, which, by the version of the Commission, becomes art. 146. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u44	Under art. 145 has a proposal from the MP Ivan Cholakov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Art. 145 is amended as follows: Art. 145. The conditions for admission and transfer of students from I to XII grade shall be determined by the State Educational Standard for the organisation of activities in school education and for students in art schools, in mathematical schools, in schools of culture and in sports schools. 144, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 145, which becomes art. 147: Art. 147. The conditions and procedure for the admission and transfer of students from the first to the third grade shall be determined by the state educational standard for the organization of activities in school education and for students in the art schools, in the schools of culture and in the sports schools with the regulations under art. 146, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u45	Please, the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u46	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 146, which becomes Art. 148.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u47	Statements? I can't see. We are voting, honourable Members, the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 17 against 56, abstentioned 13. The offer is not accepted. We now vote together the text of the importer for art. Article 145, which, by the version of the Commission, becomes art. 147, and supported by the Commission text of the importer for art. 146, which becomes Art. 148.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u48	Why would we vote them together?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u49	Because there were no speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u50	It doesn't matter. We, on one text, have a proposal and we have a different attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u51	Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u52	Under art. 147 there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 147, which becomes Art. 149: Art. 149. (1) The admission of students to Bulgarian schools abroad shall be carried out under conditions and in order laid down in the act of opening them. (2) The admission of students to private schools shall be carried out under conditions and in accordance with the rules for their activities and for the students adopted in accordance with art. 10, para. 4 and the state educational standard for financing institutions. (3) The admission of students to spiritual schools shall be carried out with the consent of the parents and under conditions and by order determined by the respective religion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u53	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text proposed by the importer for art. 147, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 149. We are voting for the text supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u54	scrambled books, textbooks and study aids. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In the title of Chapter 7 after the expression "Learning aids" the expression "Study Resources" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u55	Statements? I can't see. We are voting, firstly, on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 13 against 59, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Vote 82 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u56	"Department I " Knowledge books, textbooks, and teaching aids. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u57	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's text of the importer on the name of Section I. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u58	Under art. 148 has a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 148, para. 1 the words "preschool education" shall be replaced by the words "preschool education and education." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 148, which becomes art. 150.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u59	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 15 against 56, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 148, which becomes art. 150 supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u60	Article 149. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 149, para. 1 the words "preschool education" shall be replaced by the words "preschool education and education." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 149. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The Knowledge Book and the Book are a basic tool in the form of a book (in paper or electronic form), a holder of basic learning content and leading in the methodical organization of the education and self-preparation of students. (2) The knowledge book and the textbook shall be approved by the Minister of Education and Science under the rules laid down in this Law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 149, which becomes art. 151: Art. 151. (1) The Knowledge Book is a work created as a result of creative work which is approved by the Minister of Education and Science to provide pre-school training. The knowledge book is a didactic tool that supports the child's overall education in one or more educational directions for a particular pre-school education age group to master the competences specified in the state educational standard for pre-school education. (2) The book is a work created as a result of creative work which is approved by the Minister of Education and Science to ensure school preparation. The textbook is a didactic tool which is for the self-study of the student and which supports his overall training on a particular subject or module for mastering the competences specified in the state educational standard for general education, the state educational standard for the profiled training or the state educational standard for the acquisition of qualification by profession as well as in the relevant curriculum. (3) The teaching aid is a work created as a result of creative work which supports pre-school and school education for: 1. specifying, extending or deepening all or parts of the study content; 2. affirmation or practical application of the acquired competences. (4) Training sets approved by the Minister of Education and Science may also be used in school education. The study kit includes a textbook and one or more teaching aids created in a single system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u61	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. First, we vote on the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 14 against 57 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the importer to art. 149, which in the version of the Commission becomes art. 151. Vote 79 MPs: 69, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u62	Article 150. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 150, para. 1 the word "critical' is replaced by "critical'. A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 150 is created a new para. 3: For the needs of Bulgarian schools abroad special cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids are created. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 150, which becomes art. 152: Art. 152. (1) Knowledge books, textbooks, and teaching aids must comply with the age characteristics of children and students, as well as promote independence and thinking. (2) Knowledge books, textbooks and study kits may not contain elements of commercial advertising.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u63	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting on the proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 6 against 8, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 15 against 10, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Art. 150, which, after the Commission's amendment, becomes art. 152. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The text was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 151, which becomes Art. 153.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u65	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 151, which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 153. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u66	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 2 is created. 151a: Art. 151a. Books, study aids and other educational resources shall be created in one study subject or in one or more modules for each class from a certain stage of the degree of education and for pre-school training, in one or more educational directions for one group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u67	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 10, against 61, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u68	Article 152. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 152, p. 3 the word "religion" is replaced by "rebreeding." Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 152, which becomes Art. 154: Art. 154. For their intended purpose, the textbooks are for training on: 1. the educational subjects of general education; 2. the mandatory modules of the profiled preparation; 3. the study subjects Mother tongue, Religion and Choreography; 4. the educational subjects or modules of the general professional training; 5. Special objects for students with sensory impairment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u69	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting on a proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: for 6, against 18, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Article 152, which, after the revision of the Commission, becomes art. 154 The Commission's text. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u70	Under art. 153 "A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 153, which becomes Art. 155.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u71	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 153 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 155. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u72	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: A new article is being created. 153a: Art. 153a. The training resources are a variety of information resources and resources processed pedagogically and used in the training process according to educational objectives and standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u73	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 15 against 59, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u74	Under art. 154 The proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 154 the words "the educational standard" shall be replaced by the words "the educational standards" and after the word "standards" shall be added to the expression "the content of education" and "the content of education." A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 154, which becomes Art. 156: Art. 156. (1) The requirements for content, graphic design, polygraphic and electronic execution of cognitive books, textbooks, study sets and study aids shall be determined by the state educational standard for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. (2) The textbooks for training in the subjects under art. 154, p. 5 shall also be drawn up on an electronic medium and the requirements shall be laid down in the state educational standard under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u75	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 2 against 60 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 154, which becomes Art. 156, supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Mr. Hristov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to put to the vote in plenary an extension of the deadline for proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products from seven to ten days by three days to extend the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u77	A reverse opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Rumen Hristov. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a break till 11:00. We continue with parliamentary control, honourable Members. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u78	The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 11 to 17 September 2015. Written answers for service. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on six issues by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 10 questions from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a request from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on three issues by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev. Colleagues, yesterday was announced the participation of Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, in parliamentary control. In the morning hours I am informed that health problems do not have the opportunity to attend this control. I am making this announcement to Members of Parliament who are now waiting to hear the oral answer to their questions and questions. Therefore, the control will start with a response of the Minister of Defense Mr. Nikolai Nenchev. First will ask his question Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov about the ability of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to be an effective partner in NATO and the region. We're listening, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u79	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister, in the conditions of acute need for the introduction of strict financial rules, each ministry is subject to a step-by-step reduction of defence costs. The optimization of costs concerns several very important directions which can be listed in the following order: optimization of staff; change of the status of structures by the Ministry of Defence; outsourcing of activities; provision of properties and activities performed by the Ministry of Defence in management of municipalities; optimization of appointment of new staff. At the heart of these so-called "optimizations" the failure of the common means of defence against the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria, wagering cost levels set with an updated budget forecast as follows: for 2016 ==References=====External links===* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "Source of the Year"* "The Year of the Year of the Year"* "The Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year"* "The Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year"* "The Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year"* "The Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year of the Year." "1.07 per cent', and for 2018 " 1,037 per cent of gross These trends for drastic reduction of the Ministry of Defence budget greatly aggravate the existing problems, outline a line for the emergence of new ones, and the defence capabilities of our country are being questioned. There is an inability and insufficient resource security for the implementation of the capabilities agreed with NATO and our participation in missions and operations abroad under the auspices of the UN, NATO and the European Union. On the other hand, the existence of these cost ceilings does not correspond with the policies of the government for the stable development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018 and the coalition agreement, in line with this, for the management of the country. Last but not least, the severely deteriorated motivational mechanisms for work and career development in the field of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria should be brought out, which places the management and expert potential at a very low level. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is this: in terms of increased defence standards arising from our membership in NATO and the European Union, and a deteriorating political, military and geostrategic situation in many regions, how do you assess the defence capabilities of our country, the ability to be an equal partner, and how do you intend to overcome the existing operational and financial difficulties of the Ministry of Defence, respectively the Bulgarian Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Mr. Minister Nenchev answer in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question. It is extremely important and essential. I am convinced that the more we talk and think about your problem, this will affect in one form or another to the budget that we need to draw up and adopt within this year. I'm counting on your empathy, but let's take a look at the facts. I would like to stress that from 1 January to 31 August this year, the soldiers and formations of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria have taken part in 137 preparations and exercises of which 11 international ones. The armed forces were actively involved in helping to overcome the consequences of the floods in the areas of Bolyarovo, Haskovo, Smolyan and in the management of massive forest fires in the areas of the Rila, Strandja and Stara Planina Mountains, of course, with the crucial help of helicopters from Aviobaza Krumovo. As a result of the explosions, incidents and similar ones at the warehouse, mostly in the village of Ignatovo, the Land Forces carried out operations to eradicate the consequences and assist the local authorities and the population. Since April began providing logistical support by the Land Forces to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior at the Turkish-Bulgarian border. Since the end of August, the formations of the Bulgarian Army have provided assistance and assistance to the Border Police and the border crossings with the Republic of Macedonia. In 2015 a total of 326 troops participated in missions abroad, currently continuing our participation with 163 soldiers who contribute to Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Georgia, Mali and other hot spots in the world. In carrying out all these missions, our servicemen prove a professionalism and a level of preparation that gives nothing to our allies. In this sense, I can answer that we are reliable NATO allies in the region. However, the expenditure ceilings for the Ministry of Defence laid down by RMS No 267 of 23 April 2015 do not ensure the full implementation of the envisaged main defence policy directions. However, the adoption of the Programme for the Development of Defence Capabilities 2020 is crucial for overcoming these difficulties, and I hope that next year we will be in much better condition and in much better opportunities to fulfil our obligations. With this Programme by 2018, for your information, we have a commitment to maintain the level of defence budget as by 2014, with which we will meet NATO's requirement not to reduce the budget and we will start modernisation in the field of defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u82	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. The line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u83	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. Our country this year, and in the years back, faces a very serious challenge to guarantee national security. National security is an extremely important concept over the past few years for absolutely all the countries in the European Union because national security or common security of the European Union is threatened for several reasons, one of which is the growing power of terrorism as a whole, and the other, which is an extremely important topic for Bulgaria as well, being an external border of the European Union, is the migration crisis or refugee problems. We are absolutely aware that in order to maintain high national security in respect of both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, current budgetary parameters must be set to ensure that these processes are secured. In this regard, I wish you success! We will have the opportunity with all parliamentary political parties to discuss with particular interest the budgets for next 2016. The shortage of funds has shaped several details that I would like to share. The construction of the stationary part of the communication and information system of the Bulgarian Army is violated. These are extremely important issues arising from our membership in NATO and the European Union. The budgetary framework does not provide funds for the deployment and operation of, for example, the Brigade Headquarters in South East Europe. These are all arrangements the Republic of Bulgaria is taking over. With the limitation of the budgetary framework, the adopted package is not allowed to be implemented. The 2013 Capacity Goals, which the Republic of Bulgaria has undertaken to build capabilities for 55 goals and prepare 50 forms for the needs of collective defence. The country's desire is to ensure national security once within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and, secondly, as a member of the European Union. It will be extremely important to monitor these processes and to have the opportunity to influence in a timely manner with regard to the budgetary parameters available to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. For the duvet, Mr. Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u85	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, you have noted extremely important things and issues that concern the Ministry of Defence directly. In order for all this to happen, I will once again address all the MPs in this House to support the new Program for development of defence capabilities and at the end of the year to make the defence budget grow consistently and gradually. Otherwise, if it turns out to be true what you mentioned with your figures in your speech, we will provide only and only money for the wages of the servicemen and no exercises, no development of defense capabilities. But I believe it won't come to that. The Bulgarian people love and like their army. I hope that the MPs as representatives of the entire people appreciate this. Thank you. I expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Defence from the MPs Vili Mladenov Lilkov and Petar Vladislavov Slavov on the policy of open doors to the citizens of the Ministry of Defence, including enlargement and by giving access to the park of the Residence. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! My question has more civil dimension than to directly refer to the defence, but I think it is important not only for the residents of Sofia from the region of Lozenets, but also for all the capitalists and guests of the capital. Dear Minister, since the beginning of your term as Minister of Defence, you have repeatedly stated your intention to conduct an open and transparent policy of your office. Specific examples of fulfillment of this commitment are not lacking, such as providing access for the media to a number of important exercises of the Bulgarian Army, the possibility for citizens on open-door days to look at specific objects from the structure of the Ministry and others. Special popularity among the citizens enjoy the measures taken by the Ministry of Defence to provide free access to the parks of the Military Academy. S. Rakovski. And the Military History Museum. Thus not only the inhabitants of Sofia and their families, but also the guests of the capital can freely and unlimitedly visit them during the working day, rest among the surrounding greenery, but also feel the spirit and atmosphere of these unique nooks loaded with so much history and patriotism. The management model attached to the Military Academy and the Military History Museum could in our opinion also be used in the Ministry of Defence-owned Residence.Lozenets, and the huge park with unique tree plant species that surrounds it. Located in the territory of the same name area in the capital, the park of the Residence would provide excellent opportunities for a walk and rest to the residents and guests of the area of Lozenets and if it was opened to visitors within the light part of the day. Moreover, when combining efforts with Sofia Municipality the opportunities of municipal enterprises for landscaping and maintenance of parks could be used and thus provide excellent maintenance and care for the park and also to save funds from the budget of the Ministry of Defence for other purposes. Dear Minister, please answer the following question: is it possible to continue the policy of open doors conducted by the Ministry of Defence by applying the management model at the Military Academy? S. Rakovski and the Military History Museum and the park of the Residency of Lozenets (Lozenets) and its opening during the working hours for residents and guests of the region of Lozenets (Lozenets) and the capital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u88	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Minister Nenchev, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, dear Mr. Slavov, we have had this conversation more than once, including with the mayor of Lozenets municipality. I have done everything necessary for your proposal to come true. But let me introduce you, first of all, to the circumstances. For the property at the disposal of the Ministry of Defence "Lozenets Residence" a Public State Property Act was drawn up on the grounds of art. 2, para. 2, p. 2 of the State Property Act. By Decision No 48 of the Council of Ministers of 2002, the property was provided to the Ministry of Defence for state representative needs and by Decree No 54 of the Council of Ministers of 2010 the property was provided for the management of the Executive Agency of Military Clubs and Military Holidays. Until now, he has had numerous restitution claims. The claims were rejected on the grounds that the property was public government property and was granted to the Office for the performance of its functions. According to the Acting Ordinance on the Organization and Activity of Military Clubs and the Representative Sites of the Ministry of Defence in Lozenets Residence, representative events of the Ministry of Defence and other ministries are organized and held, as well as structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. Protocol events from other departments, organizations, natural and legal persons are also held at the Lozenets Residence. In organizing these events, access to the park space to both the second and third floors of the central building is strictly restricted. It should also be taken into account that from mid-2014 until now, regular meetings of the Office of Military Information are organized and held with NATO, the European Union and partner services aimed at fulfilling the intelligence commitments made and improving our intelligence security, operations and planning processes. I myself had a similar idea, as I have already mentioned, we have commented on it many times with other colleagues. I believe that one day we will be able to fulfill this beautiful idea and will contribute to the better spending the free days of the citizens and guests of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u90	Line, Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u91	Dear Minister, thank you for your understanding. As my colleague Lilkov and I have pointed out in our question to you, it is actually only about the park. We are aware that the residence is used for purposes and the Ministry of Defense needs to use it. Our intention was to expose to you in the informal conversation if, of course, it is possible to properly separate the park from the main building of the residence and citizens to have access to the park in the bright part of the day, of course, under strict control by representatives of the Ministry of Defence. I'm going to use here to tell you something interesting, which, I guess, you know. Not so long ago your predecessor during the term of the three coalition regularly provided the park and the residence for the so-called private parties. Colleague Lilkov, then as municipal councillor, and I, as a resident in the Lozenets region, have repeatedly received a complaint from citizens that until late-to-be music plays louder music to express myself softer, that is, obviously, there have been a lot of excitement there. I doubt that then these adequate actions have been taken, which you are talking about at the moment, that they must be taken in order to really ensure the security of what is located in the residence, and to protect the park itself. Of course, that is past, and I am convinced that such practice will no longer be allowed under any preposition. I hope that the commitment you make and the efforts you make will really be successful, and that citizens can, as at the Military Academy, enter and explore, and in the Military History Museum, many people go with their children, with their families to look around, and enjoy these nice places in Sofia, and here also to become a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP Left Bulgaria, Mr. Stoilov, please come for a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u93	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! At the end of next week, the campaign for the local elections begins. We want it to offer a competition of ideas, personalities and programs for people and for the development of municipalities. We demand legal and political responsibility from all participants in it. Yesterday, the Supreme Administrative Court annulled a decision of the Central Election Commission, which is clearly contrary to art. 423 para. 1 of the Election Code. Quoting part of the provision: Another number in the ballots of the parties, the coalitions, the committee committees are determined by lot of the Municipal Election Commission. It is unlikely that such a literal text could lead to another conclusion from the judiciary. In this case, however, the majority in the Central Election Commission adopts the illegal decision at the initiative of the heads of the parliamentary groups of GERB, the Patriotic Front, BBC and ABB. It seems that the government believes that they can rewrite the laws in motion at their own discretion and force the authorities responsible for the organisation and conduct of the elections to act, not in accordance with the law, but with their momentary will. I draw attention to this fact because the same parties and people are the initiators for reforming the judiciary. They seem to want to reform in such a way that they can reach solutions in commercial, administrative and criminal matters that are in their advantage and essentially leave them out of law, outside the requirement to comply with the law. We are also witnessing a number of places of organised pressure with administrative and economic means on potential BSP candidates and other parties. People and groups are also used to produce and distribute dirt for the management of successful mayors in order to waver support for them. At the same time, this is how real violations and long-standing vicious practices are hidden and blurted out. We see that such funds are applied both by the central and, in some cases, by representatives of the local authorities. The attempts to push the real policy and the interests of the majority of people into the periphery of public life are getting stronger. Local government is at risk of being formally won through elections, but in fact through abuse of power at central or local level, subjecting it to private and corporate structures. We are also witnessing before the start of the company of massive advertising in some of the media, advertising for state-owned companies. Interesting to whom they are advertised and for what purpose, and whether these are forms of fundraising for hidden funding of various vicious practices during the elections. I say these things early enough because our parliamentary group and our party really want these elections to rehabilitate politics, to prevent it from losing more and more real importance to the people it concerns. I conclude with the call, perhaps it is too romantic, but I think that publicly must be addressed at least to these forces in different parties, to those candidates who want to prove themselves by their policies, with their public actions and with the responsibility they take in front of the people they claim to work for and who expect to vote for them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u94	And thank you, Mr. Stoilov. We continue with a further question to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev by the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the repair of MiG-29 fighters and the security of the Bulgarian airspace from other countries. Please, Mr. Enchev, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u95	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! At the beginning of September 2015, the military ministers of Bulgaria and Poland signed an Agreement on the repair of the Bulgarian fighters MiG-29. According to which an Agreement by the middle of next year Poland will repair the engines of three fighters and by the end of 2016. On three more. But just a day after the Bulgarian-Polish Agreement, the Russian Air Force Corporation (MIG) officially announced that if the Bulgarian fighters are renovated in Poland, which does not have a license for this activity, the Russian side will consider them scrapped and we will remove the responsibility for their further exploitation. At the same time, Mr. Minister, you sought support from your coalition partners in parliament to push changes to the Defence Act, allowing another country to protect the Bulgarian sky, in particular you asked to change the text in which it is written that the security of our air space is carried out by the Bulgarian army. On this occasion, before I ask you the two questions, I am merely reminding you of a statement by the commander of the Bulgarian Air Force General Radev of 27 October 2014, in which he states, I quote: "It is absolutely unacceptable for another state to guard our air borders for us because it is a denial of our national sovereignty and a loss of national dignity." My questions to you, Minister, are two: 1. Why are you entering into an Agreement for repairing the fighters with a country that does not have a license for such activity, thus risking the lives of Bulgarian pilots? 2. Are you really going to propose amendments to the Defence Act allowing another state to guard the Bulgarian airspace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Nenchev, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Enchev, I find your questions very manipulative, but first of all let me inform you that in the beginning of September the military ministers of Bulgaria and Poland signed an Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement. The subject matter of this Agreement states that it contains general provisions for cooperation in the military field between the two sides on the basis of the principles of equality, partnership and mutual benefit. The information that if the Bulgarian fighters are renovated by Poland, the Russian side will consider them to be scrapped and will remove from them the responsibility for their further exploitation was implemented in the media, but no official documents have been submitted to the Ministry of Defence to confirm this. Note that the responsibility for the operation of Bulgarian aircraft has always been and remains solely the responsibility of the owner of the Bulgarian State, through the legal person in whose management they are. The treaty provides for Poland to provide guarantees, as required and quality standards for NATO military products. Our Defense Institute at the Ministry will also review the full documentation and must rule on this treaty. The Polish side has upgraded and maintained its aircraft and so far have not had any serious accidents. On the second question, I inform you that the Ministry of Defence is discussing and discussing yesterday once again the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which will create a legal opportunity for security of our airspace and will take place independently of the Bulgarian Army or together with the armed forces of allied states. The prepared project does not allow the implementation of security activities independently from other countries. The Bulgarian army, in the face of the Air Force, will continue to carry out this activity as provided for in the Constitution and the Bulgarian legislation. There is no provision for the transfer of sovereign rights and powers in respect of military operations and other acts using weapons to foreign armed forces or bodies. Joint airspace security is encouraged because it allows pilots from different countries to train together by flying together and thus contribute to increasing the level of interoperability between the allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u98	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. Line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u99	Mr. Minister, my questions are not manipulative, and here are the facts of my rightness. Fact number one. Practice shows that every country that owns Russian fighting equipment that wanted to skip Russia to maintain and repair this technique has suffered financial losses. Fact number two. Romania years ago allowed an Israeli company to renovate its MiG-29. However, the company turned out not to have a license and the planes were grounded. Five years ago, the Ministry of Defence of Bulgaria signed a Treaty for repair and modernization of Russian helicopters "Mi-17" with the Israeli company "El Witt." Then, before signing this contract, Russia repeatedly explained that the company does not have a license to perform repairs in Bulgaria, but nevertheless the contract was signed and after some time terminated. For this exercise, however, Bulgaria lost more than 7 million. BGN, as she had transferred the money in advance for the implementation of the Israeli side. One last example. In Poland, it will most likely be the same as I told you, since Russia has announced that Warsaw does not have a license to repair and modernise these planes, and Poland, which is most important, has not yet said where it will take the spare parts for the repairs of the aircraft.....................................then only from the Russian corporation........................... and if it will buy them from the Russian corporation......................................................................................................................................................... Furthermore, to complement the issue of the Bulgarian airspace and to quote once again General Radev's statement from October 2014 in the newspaper "Pressa." It complements something very important that such a policy, even for joint security of our airspace, is directed against NATO's fundamental principle: Every country will be able to provide its own protection, as everyone from the outside will carry combat duty and will guard territory while Bulgarian pilots will protect their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u101	Dear Mr. Enchev, I will confirm: Your questions are manipulative. We need to speak the truth and only the truth before the Bulgarian people. First, as regards the repair of the MIG-29. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is no other option in front of Bulgaria. Remember that the European Union imposed sanctions against Russia. There is a good chance that these planes cannot be repaired at all in Russia due to these sanctions which continue to have action to date. On the other hand, you say and claim accidents, God forbid. I just want to inform you that in about a month and a half in Russia, nearly 17 planes have fallen, which I do not wish anyone, of course, and I am not malicious about it. I mean, that guarantee doesn't make us feel very calm. With regard to the quote, you quoted General Radev twice, I would like to tell you that yesterday we had a Defence Council and together with General Radev we adopted this decision. Once again, Bulgaria should carry out the so-called erpolising alone or with other countries. Period! There's nothing more to be expected. You say that this violates NATO regulations to one extent or another. And that is not true, because at the end of last year at the Wales Summit, such a decision has been made and it is encouraged by our NATO allies, and I find a very good reason in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue, the last provided in today's parliamentary control of the Minister of Defence, and he is from the National Representative Ilian Todorov regarding the passage of an American military vehicle. Mr. Todorov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, on 15 September 2015 I received pictures and videos from a citizen, showing that around 12:00 p.m. at noon on the same day on Blvd. In the city of Sofia, Tsar Boris III passes an American military vehicle with registration number "USArmy CS 0669" carrying in a locked crate a cargo of unknown content. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what the American military vehicle was carrying; is this vehicle authorised to carry cargo and move freely on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and why has this same vehicle not been escorted by the Military Police? I will also provide photos to the media, if they are willing, to see how American military vehicles carrying locked boxes are moving freely in Bulgaria and what are carrying weapons for the Islamic State? You'll say, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[Shows from the stands the photo material and transmits it to Minister Nikolai Nenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Todorov! I would like from this tribune quite responsibly to call you to a much more serious attitude towards these issues, because, I think, provocations have become more frequent. I remember there was a similar provocation with similar photos for tanks outside kindergarten. It turned out to be a complete hoax. But let me be specific on this: I assure you that I am directly following and controlling all teachings and preparations in the country with our allies, whose conduct I have, of course, resolved by my order. I did a background check on the case. And through the joint implementing bodies of the Agreement, a detailed inspection was carried out by the U.S. forces. As a result of this check it was found that the registration number of the car was not real, Mr. Todorov. It's not real. I want to inform you that in recent times, provocations have increased with false materials published on the Internet. I believe that these are actions that cause confusion in society and endanger our national security. And since such actions are unacceptable, I intend to speak with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova as soon as possible so that all legal means are used to counter such innuendoes. The Bulgarian people of their own free will became a member of the large family of democratic peoples. Our place, Mr. Todorov, is in the European Union and NATO. We're not just consumers, we're security generators. Both our servicemen participate and exercise outside the territory of the country and our allies participate in the exercises on the territory of Bulgaria. Together with them, we prepare to respond to all kinds of challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a replica.. the public representative Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u107	I, Minister, do not see what serious attitude you are talking about, given that from this tribune you are now saying that a car carrying a chest of unknown content is passing with an untrue number of the American army and it is quite freely in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will provide all the media that are willing, a video to see how a car carrying a gun no one knows what it is, if it blows up any, no one knows what it is carrying this car, and see how it is quite calmly passing through the streets of Sofia. And it has nothing to do with this question to tell me that I have seen here in colleagues. What's so funny? In fact, it's funny to you that there are cars with U.S. military license plates that weren't real, Mr. Minister. That's what I'm saying from Ataka we're going to provide the video to all the media that are willing. Those cars could make an attack tomorrow, blow themselves up, and then you'd laugh again? You'll laugh again then...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u108	Please don't replicate from place!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u109	...are you gonna tell us we're not serious again? Thank you. I'm just really surprised.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Would you like your coat, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u111	Dear Mr. Todorov, there is no need for hysteria. There's no need for hysteria, and there's no need for emotion. These are extremely important questions for the Bulgarian people and they are related, I repeat, directly to our national security. From the check I've done, it turns out that this number isn't real. But you and we, together with the MPs, will carry out a detailed check to find out whose car this was and whether this is actually another provocation by which you are trying to do so, you or others, to disturb in or among the Bulgarian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With the answer to this question, your participation in Parliamentary control has ended. The next parliamentary question will be answered by the Minister of Education and Science. Todor Tanev. He is asked by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov about the weeping financial situation of the Astronomical Observatory Rozhen. [[Conversation outside the microphones between Minister Nikolai Nenchev and Ilian Todorov.]] Mr. Minister, Mr. Todorov, you are disturbing the court, please! Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Rozhen National Astronomical Observatory has no money for electricity and water. Scientists ask donors to help them with emergency repairs. In 2012, she was threatened with closure, and scientists were forced to form a football team "Rozhen Bears" to raise additional money for research. There are other similar cases in this story. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what measures can be taken by your ministry and will it take them to overcome this critical situation for astronomers in Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Come in for an answer, Professor. Tanev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Stanilov, Dear Members of Parliament! I'm answering your question about the critical condition of one of the observatories, perhaps the lead. Yesterday, however, I am returning from another city in Dimitrovgrad, where many of the things have been decided, including the reconstruction of the building by local authorities. Rogen's not the only one, though it's of the lead. The National Observatory Rozhen is in the structure of the Institute of Astronomy of... [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u116	Professor. Tanev, just for a second. People's representatives Manushev, Slavov and the others, please observe the order in the Chamber! Professor Tanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u117	She is part of one of the institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It was built 30 years ago and is Bulgaria's largest investment in research infrastructure. No more. Among other things, numerous studies are conducted in collaboration with scientists from almost all European countries, even overseas. I can say that under the State Budget Act in 2015 the transfers from the Ministry of Education and Science to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are BGN 72 846 900. Under the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the National Autonomous Research Organisation covers academic institutes and other independent structures and units. According to the provisions of the Law.............................................................................................. 11 paragraphs 1 and 4, the Academy shall draw up, implement and take into account the budget for the year concerned and shall use the funds for the financing of research. In this sense, the Ministry of Education and Science does not have an instrument with which it can influence the allocation and spending of the funds provided by activities. The status of BAS as a secondary authorising officer with a budget is set out in art. 11, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act, according to which the budget of the Academy is not part of the state budget and their budgetary relations with the Ministry of Education and Science are regulated in the State Budget Act for the year in question and their budget is included in the budget of the chief authorising officer. Under the State Budget Act of the Academy, according to art. 5a of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Board of Governors of 12 April 2011 functions. The Council aims to support the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on effective management of funds. The Board of Governors shall propose measures to achieve the objectives set out in European research standards. The discussion and resolution of financial issues related to the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences could be presented to the Council for Discussion, moreover that its composition is included by the government Ms. Rumyana Bachvarova and Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The construction, operation and maintenance of the unique scientific complex in Rozhen, part of the National Road map for Research Infrastructure, according to the Council of Ministers' Decision of 31 July 2014 suggests that the centre uses, has such a database that they require in this case, currently, high-speed internet transfer of large databases. The Ministry of Education is not the stepmother of this center. I know about the problems that have been accumulated, I repeat, years have accumulated problems in this center. For this year, there was no provision for capital construction and renovations, not even schools. Nevertheless, from internal reserves after a meeting with the management of Rozhen and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Ministry of Education and Science granted 80 thousand. lv. for an optical cable for a 4-kilometer optical route, which is currently most pressing. I hope that I have answered your questions with this, hopefully we have an understanding of this answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The People's Representative Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u119	Mr. Minister, you said that the problems have been accumulated for years and this is immediately transferred to the fundamental policy of the Bulgarian governments since the beginning of the transition to research, especially to empirical research, which in this case are astronomical. This is not about theory, this is about regular science, regular research activities, whose interruption leads to a shift of Bulgarian status in science back. You said what is the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. When discussing this budget in plenary, there was a proposal to increase it. No one paid attention to these proposals. There were some promises to give a few more million extra, they have not been made so far. I call on you, as a member of the Council of Ministers, as well as all the other members of the Council of Ministers, this year to pay serious attention to what budget is stated for the next, because indeed the salaries of the scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and capital expenditures are lower than possible at all. I cannot allow scientists and researchers with degrees and degrees to receive salaries at the level of teachers in primary schools, my respects to these teachers. This is the only case in Europe. Bulgaria cannot be last in Europe for research and can be very far away from those one-and-a-half of the gross domestic product for which the average European countries spend. We're under 0.2%. This needs to change and it can change with the universal efforts of both the National Assembly and the wish of the Council of Ministers and personally of the Prime Minister, who I remember in the first term of GERB did not allow some initiators, who were also from GERB, of course, to close down the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. This has to stop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u120	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u121	Honourable Professor. Stanilov, colleague, thank you for understanding and for the tone with which you are actually proposing a collective action by both the MPs and the Council of Ministers for a radical change in the attitude towards research, not only fundamental, but also for those who have, as you said, empirical and applied character in the scientific sense of the word. I, as far as the Ministry of Education and Science is concerned, am at the forefront of those who are going to insist on this thing happening. I would normally like to assure you that I have repeatedly had conversations with the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on this particular issue. From this tribune I announce that I am open to any kind of conversation and will listen to you first, because I know that your ideas are particularly thoughtful and wise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control and thus fulfilling your constitutional obligation to answer parliamentary questions and questions. The next minister to answer current questions is Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. She will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov concerning an update of the Ordinance on selection activities in livestock farming. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! A month ago, a month and a half ago at the Thracian University of Stara Zagora was held a very important forum, a round table discussing the problems of the selection in Bulgarian livestock breeding and mostly in this part. Some very serious weaknesses have been identified, which I would like to put to your attention, Madam Minister. In the current Regulation on selection activities, there are many weaknesses that prevent the organisation and the holding of selection in live livestock, the more significant of which are: the duplication of animal registration, which leads to errors in the identification system; the lack of rules and opportunities for applying newly built farms for entry into the support system; an unjustified large volume of documentation on breeding and selection activities, which makes it difficult to work and reduces the possibilities for electronicisation of the document turnover; insufficient certainty in the rules of origin, which is very important, hence the low productivity of the animals. You were convinced of this when you were able to protect the Bulgarian livestock farmers very successfully and especially the dairy farmers, and our dairy farmers were leveled with those from the Czech Republic, from Poland, who have twice the milk productivity. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the Ordinance of Selection be updated and in this regard will a new identification system be established in livestock, will the State aid scheme for breeding be updated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u124	Thank you. For a response the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Mrs. Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking. Taking a policy to assist the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in stimulating the cultivation of highly productive animals under selective control really raises some issues and concerns about the strict control of the conduct of this selection activity. At present, the regulations on the basis of which this selection activity is conducted are seven.. for the different types of animals, they have been adopted from 2004 to 2007 and different changes have been made to them. At the moment, I can say that updating the legal basis for breeding activities, as well as the Law on livestock farming and all these regulations will be mainly made after the adoption of the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade and import into the Union for breeding animals and germinal products. The idea is the regulation to unite the directives currently in force in the different sectors. It is in a procedure for its adoption and I believe that next year we will be able to transpose all this into national legislation. As regards the State aid scheme, aid for the creation and maintenance of a family book and for determining the prototype and genetic qualities of animals supporting the activities of breeding organisations, I would like to emphasise that it was updated in 2015, as it was also notified to the European Commission. All registered breeding organisations took part in the development of the scheme. The final version was also discussed with the Genetic Resources Council of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming. After the implementation of this scheme, I have also received calls given the many volumes of documents to be drawn up, but, ultimately, one that was adopted in this way, and, secondly, we must have the safety of animals under selective control, because they are also subject to sufficiently high support. Regarding the other comments, allow me to make a few comments and explanations. Duplicate the registration of animals resulting in errors in the identification system. For the first time this year the new schemes for tied animal support under selective control were introduced. In order to implement these schemes, a link has been made since February between the integrated information system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Animal Identification System for Selection needs. This allowed us not only to pay the financial support to farmers who work for breeding organisations, but also drastically reduced the errors that existed in the system. You also know that the Executive Agency also maintains a register of male breeding animals and breeding flocks of the National Genofund, which are not related to animal identification, with the information system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the State Fund. On the note concerning the lack of rules and opportunities for applying newly built farms for entry into the system and support. As far as I understand this note, I would like to assure you that for the support of animals subject to selection, it is only necessary for them to conduct an effective breeding activity, the information from which it fits into the breeding book of the breed concerned and is kept by the breed organisation concerned. Naturally, it cannot immediately be submitted to support under selective control, because you need to pass the appropriate time and you as a specialist know this very well. However, in no case is there a restriction if a farmer has yet to start raising certain animals with a particular breed and wants to be under selective control, he is to carry out the activities, the breeding organisation to sign the contract, to carry out the relevant activities and they are, after the necessary period of time, to be kept animals under selective control and to be able to be declared under these new tied support schemes. With regard to an unjustified large volume of breeding and selection documentation, which makes it difficult to work and reduces the possibilities for the electronicisation of the document. The only documentation required by breeding organisations subject to control by the Executive Agency shall be: breeding book and zootechnical certificate of breeding animals, as well as primary records of performance control. Without these documentations, there is no way as a country to ensure that the animal concerned is that breed under selective control and can be eligible for support for tied schemes that lead to significantly higher support. The remaining documentation that breeding organisations conduct is entirely the result of their decision to organise their activities and, of course, security and conviction in the native stock.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u126	Here's a line for you, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. Thank you also for what you did in Brussels for the Bulgarian dairy farmers. This is on behalf of all those who were at this forum. The due recognition of what you have done is granted. Yeah, the regulation's changed, we know that. But apparently there are some things that need to be touched and some problems need to be solved, because the disproportions in dairy livestock are very big. If we take the dairy cattle, we know that there are farms that give 1.5 tons of milk, there are others that give 10 tons. We have reached some very high levels, but in a small number of farms. In general, the dominant part of animals can be said, although they are included in selection control, are very low productivity and many compromises are made by the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction and by breeding associations. So there are things we need to get into this regulation. Perhaps it is more important to enter the Law on livestock farming, because there must also be some changes there. A regulation must be given on who will carry out this job, a selector in livestock farming. This is the most creative activity. Very often there are people who do not have the necessary training, do not have the necessary competences and we are still standing at one of the low levels in the European Union. So together with you, I hope that we will make these adjustments and will soon submit the Law on livestock farming in Bulgaria and we will really go in a more ascending line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, I am convinced of the truthfulness of your words on the control by the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in animal agriculture, especially given the really great interest of farmers, the animals they grow, to go under selective control, given the possibility of higher subsidies and I am convinced that somewhere such compromises have been made, which would effectively compromise selection activities. In terms of strengthening the capacity, I would just like to inform you that they are implementing a project under the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme financed by the Swiss Confederation. The project next year provides for a National Genetic Laboratory to be established at the Agency to conduct an accurate analysis of origin. In addition, it is intended to do a DNA analysis of 2,000. 700 female, 110 male animals on the basis of which to develop genetic maps for 27 breeds. In addition, the preparations for the laboratory's premises have already been completed, so we are going in a direction that should neutralize these compromises, as you said. I just want to give you one reference in numbers to convince you of the interest in raising animals under selective control. For example, for cows, if we had 47,000 in 2011. 178 animals under selection control, 2012 became 52 thousand. 598 a 2013 91,000. 358 cows, 2014 - 59 thousand 231 cows, 2015 seventy thousand. 943 cows. The trend is rising. It is a fact that between 2014 and 2015 is the largest relative number of animals that have passed under this activity. And here we will certainly carry out the appropriate checks. One more example to give for the sheep the following animals, which are grown in the most farms in Bulgaria. Under selective control in 2011 there were 158 thousand. 903 pieces, in 2012 - 154 thousand. 486 pieces in 2013 - 165 thousand. 705 pieces, in 2015 "G" and "G" and "G" and "G" and "G" and "G" and "G" shall be "G" and "G" and 51 pieces. Here the trend is exactly the same ascension and this is how it should be. We support the higher incomes of farmers. Animals that grow must be under selective control, breeds to reach indicators that some good farms have already reached. Given the biggest upload in the last year, given, of course, and the interest in support, it is really good for the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming to be uncompromising and to make the relevant checks that would really establish the authenticity and conviction that they are under strictly regulated selection activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-18.u130	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With Minister Taneva's reply to an up-to-date question, the questions provided for the answer to ministers in today's meeting are being exhausted. Before closing the plenary session, I would like to inform you that the next regular plenary session of the National Assembly will be on Wednesday, 23 September 2015, starting 9:00 p.m. and the bill for amendment and supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is laid down as the first item for consideration. I'm adjourning the plenary session.
