ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Abort registration. Second attempt at 9:15 p.m. Found at 9:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u2	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, as stated yesterday at the extraordinary Chairmanial Council, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the first item in the legislative part of today's plenary be: 1. Project for a decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. 3. First vote on the bill of recognition, enforcement and dispatch of acts imposing measures on procedural coercion other than measures requiring detention. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 114, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. On 8 October 2015 by letter No 554-00-664 the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev informed me that on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure withdrew the bill for supplementing the Road Traffic Act on 16 September 2015 with vc. No 554-01-155. On 8 October 2015, the National Statistical Institute received information for August 2015 on the following indicators: R & D indexes in the Section of Retail Trade, excluding the trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles; Industrial Production Indexes; and Construction Production Indexes. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, in connection with the termination of the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly on the day yesterday, by letter. No 536-00-13 of 8 October 2015 by the leadership of the Central Election Commission, I received Decision No 2522 of 8 October 2015 of the Central Election Commission declaring a Member of the National Assembly. The decision reads as follows: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 2522-НС, Sofia, 8 October 2015 on the appointment of elected MP in the 10th Election Region "Kustendilski" With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-16 of 8 October 2015 the CEC has received a decision of the National Assembly of 8 October 2015 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria were terminated early the powers of the MP Maya Bozhidarova Manolova, elected by the 10th Election Region of Kyustendilski, erected by Coalition BSP left Bulgaria in the 40th and third National Assembly. On the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as elected MP in the 10th Election Region of Kyustendilski, Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov, UNN..., from the list of coalitions of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Ibrishimov is here to take an oath. Please, the Quaestors, invite him to the hall. Repeat after me, Mr. Ibrishimov. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u3	I pledge in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u4	Congratulations! We're going to point one for today: PROJECT FOR THE GENERALATION OF STATE MONETARY PRESENTATIONS TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION, No 502-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. There is a report from the Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Karastoyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u5	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Mr. Boil Banov be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u6	We are voting on this proposal, fellow Members. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister if he's here. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u7	Madam President, honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on Project for a decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 502-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. The Committee on Culture and Media at an extraordinary meeting held on 7 October 2015 discussed the Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 502-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Bonnie Petrunova, Deputy Minister of Culture. In 2012, the Forty-first National Assembly adopted the Law on Awarding Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. The state monetary awards for special merit are: life, periodical and one-off. The funds necessary for the payment of life-saving state monetary prizes for special merit shall be paid through the budgets of the relevant ministries. By Decision No 710 of 16 September 2015, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to grant lifelong state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and the nation of: opera singer Anelia Shumanova, actor Vasil Mihaylov, archaeologist prof. Ludmil Getov, conductor and composer Stoyan Babekov and folk singer Yanka Rupkina. The proposal to award state awards is for outstanding achievements and for a comprehensive contribution to culture. The Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 14 votes to adopt a draft decision for granting state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and nation, No 502-03-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. Mr. Minister, will you present the Project for a solution? Mrs. Karastoyanova will present him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u9	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! "Project" DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. He awards state monetary awards lifelong for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation in the amount of 700 BGN. monthly, respectively: Anelia Lubomirova Shumanova Vasil Alexandrov Mihaylov Prof. d.o.b. Lyudmil Stefanov Getov Stoyan Ivanov Babekov Ianka Anastasova Rupkina for their outstanding achievements and their overall contribution to the field of culture. 2. Instructs the Minister for Culture to implement the decision. The decision was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly on (current date) 2015 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u11	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The MPs from BSP left Bulgaria will support the proposal for the award of state monetary awards for Bulgarian citizens with a special contribution to the development of the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian culture, the development of the Bulgarian nation. I would like to remind you today, Members of Parliament, that our parliamentary group, as early as the 40th National Assembly, was then in the form of a Coalition for Bulgaria, supported the proposal made by the Ministry of Culture for the discussion and adoption of this Law. Today it is really important to emphasise that a difficult organizational path has been made until the regulation, which allows today the National Assembly to discuss and adopt a proposal for the award of these deserved Bulgarians. I believe that the Commission, which was broadcast by the order of Minister Rashidov, composed of 15 members under the authority of Ivan Popyordanov, did its work very seriously and broadcast among the 15 Bulgarian artists nominated by the creative guilds, really five undisputed names of deserved Bulgarians who have dedicated their entire lives, their personal and creative recognition not only for the development of Bulgarian culture, for the development of their talent, but have indeed marked the Bulgarian nation, the Bulgarian culture with their highest achievements. Some of them also have undisputed public positions in these years, which have really contributed to the development of our country as citizens and public figures. We will also support these proposals because it is necessary in times that are not always marked from time to time of spirituality that these people should be respected, respected by the Bulgarian state and feel our attitude, which is also a sign of responsible political behaviour at the moment. I think we can wish for other than proposals made by the Ministry of Culture in the coming years to see proposals from other ministries for people who have worked and deserve to receive such recognition in other areas of the public, cultural and spiritual life of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our group of ABBs and the Commission, and now it will support. I think this thing's even late. It's been a long time. You know, big personalities are gone insulted. We should support those people who gave their lives for culture and eventually went from their earthly path just offended. Not just that. We are preparing a project, which we will submit together with the Ministry to create a Fund of Culture, with which we will be able to assist such individuals who have fallen, who must be recognized by the whole public of Bulgaria as great cultural figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc, I would also like to express support for the grant of this scholarship. These are really people with authority in the field of culture. Everyone in their sector has contributed to that through culture somehow life in Bulgaria to be better. The point is, however, that the situation in culture is such that we want much more people to receive a decent wage and to live decently when they come out of active creative work. On this occasion, in the Committee on Culture, we discussed the possibility of how the guilds themselves, the cultural artists themselves, can contribute to this, when they come out of active creative work, to be supported by pó. I am in favour of the proposal made by Deputy Minister Petrunova, possibly why not young artists who start early in their work, as a sign of solidarity to devote some of their salaries so that a fund can be built up that can be managed by them, perhaps with regard to the Ministry of Culture, so that greater solidarity can actually be shown in this area. My proposal is through the Committee on Culture to develop this idea and ultimately in this sector and the state in the face of the Ministry to make more sustainable efforts, so that this is not a precedent, but to become a practice, a good sign of support for such people. We from the Reformation Block will vote for. We hope that these people have a peaceful and dignified life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The patriotic front will also support this initiative. We congratulate the Minister of Culture on this action and initiative. Let us be honest over the past 25 years, politicians have done everything we can to separate people, to oppose them. We shared, including the artists of culture, ours and yours, where out of envy, where out of stupidity, where out of political demagogy. It was high time for those people who, in all these difficult years for Bulgarian culture, for Bulgarian art, all those people who were forgotten and replaced quite deliberately with chalgajis and all other pseudocultural values, finally to be respected and to receive the recognition of the Bulgarian National Assembly. So it is only natural for us to support this initiative. A lot of people reading this list of five people might say there's another five hundred and five. Yeah, well, maybe five thousand, five hundred and five, not just five! This is the first step, and as was said by the previous speakers, not only the Ministry of Culture, there are other ministries that can make similar proposals for people in the foreign policy of Bulgaria, in the field of defence, in different areas of the spiritual and national life of the Bulgarian nation to be proposed. It is high time with such gestures to unite the nation, not to set an example of disunity. I thank everyone who will support this decision. And thank you, Minister, for the initiative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Velchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Of course, and we support this... It is not an initiative either, because two years ago we voted in the Law regarding people, I repeat, who have done a lot and have raised the authority of Bulgaria, to be able to show that the public appreciates what they have done. I wasn't going to get up to speak, because the vote in the Commission and the transcripts say that they're all about the................................ No parliamentary group is against it. I'd like to call on Mr. Rashidov's colleagues, the other ministries. Dear colleagues, there are still many worthy Bulgarians who are not in the field of culture, but have also given much to our country for authority, for the upliftment, if you will, in the field of technology and in other areas of our public life. I call on the other ministers to show activity as Mr Rashidov shows so that they too can be appreciated and feel that the society values the Bulgarians who are doing their best so that Bulgaria can prosper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u21	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, I also express the position that we will support the decision of both the Ministry of Culture and the National Assembly with the clear awareness that we hope that this will be a sign that the state is returning to culture in an indisputable way. In a country where 7 million, three and a half of which are on the poverty line, it is clear that without state aid to culture, the market cannot feed culture. For us this is a sign that after many years of division, indeed the state decided finally the political line of division in culture to remain in history. Agreeing absolutely with what Mr. Velchev said that there are other deserved Bulgarians, and in many areas, I would like to remind you that we have 52 Olympic champions in sport who may also deserve such a prize, because they have raised Bulgaria's image high and against the background of their victories we have seen the tribagrenika, we have listened to the Mila Rodino. Once again, I am expressing the support of our parliamentary group and I hope that this process will deepen. Indeed, if it is possible to create such a fund, perhaps from the performances of young singers to make contributions to provide those who have already walked their way into culture and provide them with a decent way of life. Let's not forget that the culture comes from Latin and means the cultivation of the soil, the processing of consciousness, the processing of the mind. Perhaps this is the most faithful and accurate way to change our country precisely through more education and more culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Come in for a speech, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's a very good initiative. Everyone's supporting her. The enterprise already resembles those polls in which someone asks, if anyone is opposed to doing good, and we wait for someone to speak out against it. Look, it's probably a great idea, but it can't hide a few other important questions, Mr. Minister and honourable Members of the majority management, that there is no system that gives objective judgment. Of course, it is very difficult in the field of art and culture here we do not need to look for mathematical indicators to appreciate creative achievements. You can write or create a piece and stay with it in history. Leonardo da Vinci has six paintings, some of them we're looking at, we don't even know if they're real, not copies. He didn't receive such a prize from Florence's leadership at the time. We go back to a practice that was once denied by the right hand in its set. Didn't the deserved artists in Bulgaria, the deserving artists of culture, the folk artists?! All these awards were accompanied by the corresponding material premiums. Who canceled? Why did you cancel? What do we do now? One list made by discretion, I don't know how it's made. How do you know that much of the Bulgarian artists who deserve are not left behind? What is the criterion of the personal opinion of the Minister, a committee established in the Ministry of Culture, the aesthetic criteria of the Prime Minister? What's the criteria, excuse me?! We will not forget the case when the Union of Artists had invited a famous Bulgarian politician as a member. Let us not reach the heights of some previous political systems that had led some things to absurdity. Mr. Secretary, you know what I'm talking about. I propose that the Ministry, the Council of Ministers consider and introduce a more detailed bill to ensure the dignity of existence, not prosperity, the dignity of the Bulgarian artists of art, culture, science, sport. I welcome the discussion that has just spread here, but it was, to say the least, thoughtless. She's one of the best feelings, I don't question the feelings of the speakers. Yeah, there are 52 Olympic champions, but there must be 152 world champions, and in some sports the world title is higher than the Olympics because they're not Olympic sports, right? You can't think in pieces, Mr. Secretary. I understand, I support the undertaking, but when it's two weeks before the local elections, it creates another flavor. Then you have to find the right time to make the proposal, otherwise it becomes an electoral job. It is high time for some things to be said frankly, because hypocrisy, when it conquers the National Assembly, conquers society, the tops of the state and comes to extremely unpleasant moments for us. In this large part lies the crisis of distrust that we are all talking about, and sociology colleagues are trying to explain with simple propaganda tricks. Dear Minister, honourable government, ruling majority, perhaps it is time to apologize appropriately to the former Head of State of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, who was brought a case and explained why he gave apartments to the people's artists of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u24	Are you defending Todor Zhivkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u25	Yeah, it's about him because you're trying to get into his shoes right now in the worst way, Mr. Atanasov! Someone needs to tell you from this stand so we can stop saying untenable things. So apologize and very please, when the issue is serious, and it is very serious, Mr. Rashidov, prepare the relevant serious, thorough legislation, a legislative proposal to consider here to resolve this really screaming issue. A number of Bulgarian actors, especially the popular music of recent times, have become known for the dramatic circumstances around which they end their lives, how they have no money to pay for the treatment in the hospital. With such lists these issues will not be resolved, because you cannot predict who will get sick on this list. They have no less contribution to the field of art. Thank you for your attention. I hope that the Ministry will show the relevant activity, examine the proposal in depth and restore the calls to the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u26	Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. The draft decision was presented to you by the parliamentary platform. Allow me to remind you that the project has been unanimously adopted by the Culture Commission with 14 votes in favour and this shows how serious the examination of the Decision Project is. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The decision is unanimously adopted by the National Assembly. The word asked the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u27	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I just thought I was proud of a parliament, of course, in Bulgarian traditions it is to stain the metal. First of all, colleague, let me tell you: sports...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u28	This should have happened before the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u29	Okay. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u30	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u31	Okay. I'm going to go thank you funnyly. They asked one why he kissed women's hands, and the answer was: [[Applause and glad tidings in GERB.]] For years, 25 years he didn't show up for different governments. Those people who are different, more talented, heroes of the nation, all their lives, to pass a law. Last term, the law came through. However, I would like to thank, first of all, for the extremely serious attitude of the Committee on Culture, because we have been debating for a very long time. This is the first time I've seen a working committee and thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you, because that way we can go somewhere and we're going somewhere. There are worthy Bulgarians, but let us take the first step. That's why I told you this funny story. Because people like Velko Kanev, like Joko Rossic, are gone. The great heroes don't deserve humiliating old age. Today I thank the entire Bulgarian Parliament for exceeding the ego of party passions, and today really Bulgarian artists have a small opportunity to leave so that they do not spend sad and humiliating years. Thank you all very much! All of you! Yes, of course, we need to develop that! Yes, of course, Bulgaria has worthy inventors, engineers, doctors, there are many! Yes, of course, in 25 years we made the first move. We're ready to develop it. I appeal to my colleagues to sit in depth on the ministries. Bulgaria with a scary old history, with a great history, cannot leave its greatest talents to drive sad old age. A while ago, I remembered an interview when I wrote: "Can someone tell me who was Prime Minister during Mozart's time? "I can come to the Bulgarian lands also during Zlatyu Boyadzhiev's time. Guys, we're gonna have a hard time. We need to reverse the computer. We all know who Zlatyu Boyadzhiev is. These are the individual names that make Bulgaria meaningful. Thank you once again in the name of the great Bulgarian artists, names and big Bulgarians! Thanks! [[Applause from GERB, Minister Vezdi Rashidov congratulates the Chairman of the Culture Committee Polina Karastoyanova and Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u32	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I do not wish to further grieve the taste in the plenary, but it is your duty as Chairman of the Assembly to actually lead the discussion properly, because it was quite right to invite Minister Rashidov, if he wants to participate, to take part during the discussion itself. I very much ask that no suggestion be made here, even more so than the Minister of Culture himself, because he is not the first in such endeavors. Because both Minister Abrashev and Minister Stefan Danailov made similar attempts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u34	In the manner of conduct you have a procedure, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u35	Please, you're assuming suggestions that are totally wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u36	The way you're leading me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u37	It is indeed a challenge for both Minister Rashidov and the majority to propose such a bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u38	The way you're leading me. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u39	In the manner of conduct, it would be best to release the bank for holding the meetings. [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u40	If you refer to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, you will understand that the ministers can at any time ask for the floor and take it. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Quiet, please! Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE REGISTER BULSTATE LAW. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, despite the unacceptable tone of some Members, I will try to present {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015. At its meeting on 17 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Alexander Petrov, State Expert at the Department of Law and by the Registry Agency: Mrs. Elena Markova, Executive Director, Mr. Vladimir Trifonov, Director of the General Directorate of Registers and Mr. Zlatozar Zlatev. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015, was presented by the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Petko Petkov. The bill introduces measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by building a comprehensive electronicisation of the BULSTAT register. The proposed amendments and additions aim at ensuring a single, publicly available and free database while at the same time governing the withdrawal of the requirements for issuing identification cards to registered persons and the creation of an electronic file for each registered entity. The circumstances to be entered shall be specified by regulating the procedure for the adoption by the Agency of entries of applications and requests submitted by electronic means and in paper form, the time limits for the decision on them and the competence of the staff of the register. The possibility of contesting the refusals to enter the BULSTAT registry under the Administrative Procedure Code is also envisaged. The proposed changes govern the interaction of the BULSTAT registry with other registers and electronic information systems, as well as the obligation for state authorities, local government authorities and local administration and banks to verify the circumstances entered in the register. The expenditure generated by the bill will be financed under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" and the proposed legislative changes will not affect the budget. Members of parliament Petar Slavov and Christian Mitev expressed their support for the bill and welcomed the initiative to reduce the administrative burden. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502 01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015, proposed to support the bill for amendment and supplement of the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502 01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce you to its President, the national representative Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u43	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015. At its regular meeting on 1 July 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Register Act. The meeting was attended by Vergenia Micheva, Deputy Minister of Justice, Elena Markova, Executive Director of the Registry Agency, and Vladimir Trifonov, Director of the Directorate-General for Regional Affairs. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Vergenia Micheva was drawn up in accordance with the measures laid down in the Second Action Plan for a reduction of 20 per cent of the administrative burden of the legislation, which contains national and transposed European requirements, for the period 2012 - 2014. The implementation of measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses was conducted a comprehensive analysis of the framework of the BULSTAT Registry Act. It is envisaged that public authorities, local self-government bodies and local administration, persons entrusted with the exercise of a public function and bodies providing public services, including banks, should verify the circumstances of the person concerned and not require written references or certificates. The amendments proposed by this Draft Law will also impose amendments to the tariff on state fees collected by the Registry Agency in its part on the fees charged for the services provided by the BULSTAT registry to reduce them. Therefore, and given the need for technological time to draw up relevant functionalities in the BULSTAT registry information system, it is envisaged that the law will enter into force from 1 January 2016. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, 502-01-46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015. Please vote on the bill first. They voted 72 MPs: 72, with no objection and no abstention. The bill was passed in the first vote. Let's go to the next point: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to Ms. Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill of recognition, enforcement and dispatch of acts imposing measures on procedural coercion other than measures requiring detention, No 502-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2015. At its meeting held on 22 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill of recognition, enforcement and dispatch of acts imposing measures on procedural coercion other than measures requiring detention, No 502-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Juliana Cholpanova, State Expert at the Department of Law and Mr. Florian Florov, Senior Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs. The bill was presented by Mr. Petko Petkov. The bill introduces the requirements of the Council Framework Decision 2009/829/JHA of 23 October 2009 implementing between the Member States of the European Union, on the principle of mutual recognition to acts imposing measures on procedural coercion laid down in a pre-trial phase as an alternative to pre-trial detention. The draft law provides for an act to impose measures on procedural coercion imposed in another Member State of the European Union to be recognised and implemented in the Republic of Bulgaria if it concerns an act which constitutes a crime under Bulgarian law. The principle of dual punishment is not required for certain crimes, such as terrorism, participation in organised crime groups, human trafficking and other criminal groups. The measures provided for include: an obligation of the accused to inform of any change in his place of residence; a prohibition to visit certain settlements, areas or objects; an obligation to be in a certain place and at a certain time; a ban on leaving the territory of the executing State; an obligation to appear at certain hours before a designated authority; an obligation to avoid contact with certain persons related to the crime committed; a ban on carrying out certain activities relating to the offence committed; an obligation to lodge a security. It is proposed that the measures initially ordered should be examined at an open hearing, where the measure of procedural coercion initially imposed is incompatible with the Bulgarian legislation, the court may order such a measure, which mostly corresponds to the measure imposed in the issuing State and cannot be stricter than that imposed. People's representatives Petar Slavov and Chavdar Georgiev took part in the discussion. Members of the National Assembly raised a question about the incorporation of measures for procedural coercion and their implementation under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr. Petkov explained that the bill should be implemented in a separate law and that the rights of the accused are guaranteed by the Code of Criminal Procedure. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. We do not have a report submitted by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I close the deliberations and vote on the bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of acts imposing measures on procedural coercion other than measures requiring detention, No 502-01-50, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2015. Please, honourable Members, vote on the bill in the first vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The bill is unanimously adopted in the first vote. We move on to the latest draft bill for today, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE COMMON ORGANIZATION ON THE MARKETS OF EARTH PRODUCTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. ) (a.k.a. With the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we will be introduced by its Chairman "The People's Representative Rumen Hristov."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I offer your attention to the First Voting Bill, please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to put to the vote for admission in the hall of Mr. Slavi Kralev, Director of the Department of Market Measures and Producer Organizations and Mrs. Polly Marina from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u48	Please vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Rumen Hristov for admission to the Chamber of the persons designated by him. Vote 74 MPs: 68 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union No 502-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 9 September 2015, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union No 502-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. The Commission's work took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov. The bill provides for the following more important changes: The first group of changes are related to the quality policy carried out by the Minister of Agriculture and Food and to the improvement of controls carried out by accredited persons. In this regard, a regulation on the issue of temporary control authorisations for compliance with the rules of organic production and on the control of compliance with their specification of agricultural products and foodstuffs with geographical indications and traditional specialities is established. The conditions and procedures for granting authorisations, including those of persons outside the European Union and the European Economic Area, as well as their scope and duration, are laid down. In addition, the scope of the responsibilities of the controlling parties is extended. Their permits have been revoked in the event of detected infringements or irregularities in the controls they carry out and the possibility of imposing sanctions. Rules are laid down for the notification of operators with whom a control and certification contract is concluded on the expiry of the period or withdrawal of the authorisation of the control body. The official controls on imports of organic produced products and foodstuffs are intended to be carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and in the case of imports of organic wine, an opinion of the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine will also be required. The second group of changes are related to the organisation of the milk market. Part of the provisions in force is repealed and as regards others it is intended to be withdrawn from 1 April 2016 registration is made for the first purchasers of raw milk and the buyers already approved under the current order will be registered in the new register. Their obligations relating to the conclusion of purchase contracts with milk producers and the reporting of the quantities of raw milk purchased on the basis of those contracts shall be laid down. Sanctions are provided for those who do not meet the new requirements. The references to European law have been updated. The last group of changes are regarding the organisation of the market in the meat sector. The obligation for carcasses which have not practiced for one year to pass a refresher course, as well as for the provision providing for the classification certificate to be withdrawn in the event of failure to comply with that obligation, is removed. The administrative criminal provisions have been revised. In the subsequent discussion on the issue, it was explained that the changes of the regime in the sector "Miljako" relate to the termination of the quota system for cow milk and the need to introduce the requirements of the new provisions of European legislation. This requires the introduction of a new register of the first purchasers and the precision of the texts regulating contractual relations in buying-in and reporting of purchased quantities of raw milk. Already approved under the old order of buyers will be entered in the new register. In conclusion, MPs from all parliamentary groups said they would support the bill. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the European Union, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, No 502-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. With the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, we will be introduced by its President
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, No 502-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. At its regular meeting held on 23 September, In 2015, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union. The bill was presented by Slavi Kralev Director of the Department of Market Measures and Producer Organizations at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The main reasons which impose the amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union are: 1. Solving a number of problems arising from the granting of authorisations and conducting supervisory checks on controllers as well as on imports of organic products. 2. The need for legislation to complete the cow's milk quota system. 3. Identification of the first purchasers of raw milk in relation to the application of the rules on contractual relations in the milk sector by introducing a light registration. 4. Reducing the administrative and financial burden on business in the sector of Meat. 5. Precise the administrative penalties imposed on entities in the contractual relations in the milk sector dictated by the completion of the quota system. In the field of competence, but the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is issued by the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service, respectively by the accreditation body of the Member State of the European Union, or by the State of the Party under the Agreement on the European Economic Area, an accreditation certificate certifying compliance with the requirements of the performance standards. The duration of the accreditation certificate shall also be the period of validity of the authorisations under art. 21, para. 5 of the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union given to the Controllers by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The practice shows that the accreditation certificate is issued in the last days before the expiry of the previous certificate. The implementation of the procedure is thus jeopardised and leads to the risk of a period of interruption between the periods of authorisations. This, in turn, leads to an interruption of the operator control system. Therefore, the Bill proposes to introduce a temporary authorisation system until a new authorisation is granted by the controlling authority, with a maximum of 6 months. After the presentation of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:............................... 15 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, No 502-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015 Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Professor. Stankov. After him, Professor. Bachvarova. [[GERB noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposed Bill is highly up-to-date and the ABB Parliamentary Group will support the Bill. It is highly up-to-date because it examines the organisation of the market of three groups of the most problematic products, which there are always doubts about the correctness of origin. These are the organic products that are............................................................................................ We've all seen what's on the market. The bill proposes solutions on how to carry out the control of these products in the first place, the biological ones. The interesting thing is, he'll have control over the control. Foreign experts will also be attracted to carry out the controls. I consider it extremely important that, in addition to the Bulgarian products for which there are increased requirements, we always place strict requirements and strict control of what is produced in Bulgaria, and very often imported products are out of control. It strengthens the control of the products coming from outside. In our laboratories at the University of Thracian, we have found that very often there are deviations from the composition and from what is offered as quality. In this part, the Law is supported and offers solutions to these particular problems. It is very important for milk and dairy products. This is where contracts with producers are proposed. So far, not all producers are being contracted, but this is a guarantee that the production that meets the quality requirements will be redeemed. I would very much like this to happen in the regulatory documents, in the regulations, to record, except that a contract is required, to provide for a minimum buy-out price. We know what happened this year..the prices of cow's milk fell below 40 cents and this created very serious difficulties for milk producers, and most of the farms were in danger of being liquidated. An increased control of meat and meat products is also envisaged. There is a problem here that perhaps should be taken into account further, at second reading and it should be written that the animals ready for purchase should not be retained because it brings costs to the meat and meat producers. These are things included in this bill. I believe that we will make some proposals for second reading and the Law will become a good, working law for Bulgarian organic production, for milk and dairy products, for meat and meat products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u53	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Hey, guys, any lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement, Professor. Bachvarova. Are there any other speeches after that? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! BSP left Bulgaria will support the submitted bill for changing the Law on the Common Organisation of Markets. We accept that this is another change related to European regulations, which must be implemented and adapted accordingly to the Bulgarian legislation. The Bill proposes changes in control of organic production and certification bodies. The main changes are in the sector. They are imposed because in Bulgaria, as in all European countries, the quota system has been dropped and other regulations are needed accordingly. Our claims are linked to too many requirements for milk buyers. In the Bill it is written that the current buyers will be registered in the new register. However, currently active purchasers must provide the necessary information about their actuality with regard to the purchase of milk. It is not clear from the Bill whether we will necessarily demand the milk purchase contracts, because they are obliged to have milk and the register of their contracts does not. Implementation of contracts is also something that the controlling authorities must also monitor. It's a fact, as Professor said. Stankov, that we have a problem in the sector, but the draft does not provide for the option to monitor the implementation of the contracts. Agree that with so many farmers in the dairy sector, the payment of the purchased milk is delayed by three, six to nine months. If there is currently a crisis with producers, this is due precisely to the uncontrolled contractual relations between producers and milk buyers. Between first and second readings, we will propose changes leading to more serious controls on purchasers for compliance with contracts that are important to all farmers. The support of the Law also means that Bulgaria takes on its commitments to implement the European regulations. We also hope that the sub-normative framework provided for in the Law will be changed, will be in line with it and will not deviate dramatically from the rules adopted for organisation of the markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u55	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Do you have any lines? No. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement. Honourable Members, will there be other speeches? No. This means that after Mr. Bayraktarov's speech, there is a vote coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u56	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I myself will support this bill. I fully share what Prof. Ivan Stankov with some additions that we somehow always miss out on, especially when it comes to the dairy sector and their production. What do I mean? For years the dairy products in Bulgaria have been produced according to the Bulgarian State Standard, in which exactly and clearly the technology of production of the large range of assortments in dairy production is laid down. The Bulgarian State Standard has not been repealed to this day. The so-called European standards, the European standards and the European standards, which are common, are not binding on the implementation of this is very important. Here begins the big problem of our dairy producers, yogurt producers, cheese, cheese. Colleagues, to make it clear to you, I suppose you are all shopping in stores where you will see that in the dairy sector there are the so-called organically clean yogurt or organic pure cheeses. Then the question arises, what are the others, what are the others? Because we as legislators do not implement the strict application of the Bulgarian State Standard, the rest are dairy products produced from concentrates, especially from dry milk. In fact, this is the big problem that hits Bulgarian dairy producers. That's the big problem. Their production is basically used as an added raw material of chemicals, of dry milk, of concentrates, instead of really producing from Bulgarian pure milk, with which there will be a chain process in which livestock will also be stimulated. Professor. Stankov is absolutely aware and knows that, for example, the number of sheep in Bulgaria has decreased dramatically in recent years. I'm not talking about nearly destroyed buffalo. You know that Bulgaria was leading in this respect with an excellent Bulgarian breed, the so-called Bulgarian Mura. Very few people know, Professor. Stankov knows, for example, that buffalo milk is a strategic raw material. Because it counteracts as a radiation neutralizer. So this is what we need to pay attention to, and I hope that colleagues who understand this matter will also make an effort, but the Bulgarian State Standard must start to apply strictly if we really want to have success in this and effective legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u57	Please be quiet in the hall. A little more respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u58	Finally, to conclude, as many times we are talking about unregulated imports of agricultural products, simple to put it this way, I think it is not bad to think about, especially fresh fruits and vegetables, as there is good experience in European countries, especially a guarantee, to have a distance from which producers of such fruits and vegetables should be. And I am sure that the unregulated imports will decline very quickly and we will stimulate the Bulgarian producer again. Because it is no secret that when they enter the same chain, almost all tomatoes and cucumbers are Bulgarian, but very well polished, it lacks this specific Bulgarian taste in them. Here are a few things that I put to the attention of colleagues who understand this matter. We will also make efforts between first and second readings to make a maximum effective and well-functioning law. Thank you for your attention. Those who understood, I think they understood correctly what I meant. Those who don't understand better try to understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any lines, fellow Members? No. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union No 502-01-70, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The bill was unanimously adopted in the first vote. With this, we have exhausted our legislative programme for today, and we can devote ourselves to parliamentary control, which will begin at 11.00. First will answer Nikolay Nenchev the Minister of Defence, a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov and then a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u60	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 2 to 8 October 2015: There was a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev to Vezdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture, on a policy of sustainable development of the Chitalishte network in the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 October 2015. Written answers to service: - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to two questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov; - by the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to ask by the National Representative Ivan Stankov. First in current control will be the Minister of Defence Nikolai Nenchev. The first question addressed to him is by the National Representative Miho Mihov on the effectiveness of the management, organizational and functional state of the Security and Security Company and the prospects for its survival, restoration and further development. We're listening, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u61	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister of Defence, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! The Security and Security Company "MOBA" for those who are asking what this abbreviation means, this is the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army.The city of Sofia is formed by Order No 3-TD-64 of 25 November 2004 of the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the aim of: - First, security of the military areas and various infrastructure sites of the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army with important importance for national security; - Secondly, to perform the social function of the Ministry of Defence in the post-career adaptation of those released by the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army soldiers and civil servants by appointing them to work. In the first years of existence, the Company met the goals set on the basis of professionalism and high responsibility by employees, understand former servicemen, build the system for making economical and profitable decisions. Financial results have been achieved, giving rise to revenue, return on investment and other costs, providing positive cash flows in the period after the initial organizational construction. A stable common business position has been achieved and a sustainable competitive position of the company in the country. Since 2011, this process of development and growth has been stopped, according to an assessment of people with whom I have served and interacted. In the last three years, the Company has lost its position not only on the common security market, but also in the performance of its main objectives and tasks, as a security company with a principal minister of defence. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question, Mr. Minister, is: what are the prospects for the restoration and stabilisation of the Security and Security Company "MOBA" Ltd. and what measures and real actions will you take in this direction in order to protect the still unroasted and undisturbed property of the former Bulgarian Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, thank you for this question. During the months of June and December 2013, the five-year contracts between the Security and Security Company of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence for the award of armed guarding of ammunition warehouses of the Joint Force Command, the stationary communication information system and the warehouses of the Navy, which imposed the reduction of 700 guards. With the expiry of these contracts, the Company is virtually deprived of its main revenue, which has led to a deterioration in its financial situation. At the beginning of 2014, the personnel of "MOBA" Ltd. were kept to a minimum. A number of measures were taken to limit the costs of the Company, including a reduction of administration. In 2014, after participating in public procurement competitions, the Company entered into a security contract with the Historical Museum in Panagyurishte, the Personal Data Protection Commission, With the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 40 of 13 May 2014, the concept of "in house" was introduced in compliance with certain criteria. The amendments made enabled the Minister of Defence, as managing the rights of the sole owner of capital in commercial companies with state participation, to award public contracts, provided that the companies comply with the conditions laid down in the Law. As a result, the Ministry of Defence has entered into a contract with the Ministry of Defence to award security to 25 newly released military areas with 174 guards. As of March 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333. There are in-house security contracts with the Central Military District for 24 sites with 120 guards, of which 90% are former employees of the Ministry of Defence and the Commandanty, which is especially commendable. Today, we can say that the Society is stabilizing and gradually overcoming accumulated losses. At present, 327 people work in it. The conclusion of contracts for security of military areas and properties in the management of the Ministry of Defence through direct award, in parallel with the participation in procedures under the Public Procurement Act, will help the Ministry of Defence to carry out its tasks in order to improve its financial situation and develop successfully as a trading company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u65	This may sound a little unnerving, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, but these days we're constantly talking about air security. We're talking about the Earth Guard now, but that's fate in the Department of Defense. The looting of the former Bulgarian Army continues and I am glad that you are now declaring, Mr. Minister, that there is no need for personnel changes and new assignments, but you are strongly emphasising this opportunity under the Defence and Armed Forces Act. I hope that you will regulate the process of non-payment of wages and wage differentiation, as well as security with real weapons, which is under the contract. These are the signals that I believe from your report that you have accepted things, as they say, at gunpoint to improve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u66	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, you don't want a line. We will continue with parliamentary control after a speech by the Parliamentary Group of "Attack."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party is related to a question that we have put here more than once on this stand. Not only have we raised the question, but we have submitted to the Ministry since 2013 at least three times separate proposals for decisions and bills to cross the invasion of illegal immigrants in Bulgaria. This is a huge problem not only for Bulgaria but for Europe. We see that there is a discussion at the moment, I would say, in quotes, because today's European leaders are not at the level, but something is trying to think about it. And what conclusions did the leaders of the largest European countries come to, I mean France and Germany? The French and German people, of course, deserve better leaders, but this is the situation. They concluded that Turkey should be helped because Turkey is based on the harshest data about 2 million so-called refugees. We call them illegal immigrants because they are not refugees seeking political asylum under international agreements for this category of people. They are migrants, as part of them have nothing to do with the events in Syria. They are simply migrants from Africa, from Asia, from countries that have been colonized over the centuries, for example, from England, the Netherlands, France, and then turned into, as is now Bulgaria, a source of profit and cheap labour and now they return in the way they do. They come to countries that were metropolitan. Either way, it's a huge problem. Europe obviously can't handle it. Europe says it will help Turkey, which is an incorrect approach. What is the Bulgarian position? We can't see her. Unfortunately, we do not see it, so my call is to the government, above all to the Ministry of Interior, to implement the Bulgarian laws. We don't want anything else. We don't want them writing poems, we don't want them jumping themselves. We want the Ministry of Interior, the investigation and the prosecution to do their job. What's their job? I'm reading to you what art. 279 of the Penal Code. He's acting, he's not canceled. Art. 279. (1) Whoever enters or exits the border of the country without permission of the proper authorities of the government or even with permission, but not through the designated places, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to 5 years and with a fine of 100 to 300 BGN. It's coming in and out! And what does the Law say about the one who translates such people into illegal immigrants? Article 280, with its latest amendments, increases sanctions. They're like this: Art. 280. (1) Whoever takes individuals or groups of persons across the border of the country without permission from the proper authorities of the government or, although authorised, but not through the designated places, shall be punished by imprisonment from 1 to 6 years and a fine from 5000 to 20 000 BGN. It is commendable to increase the penalty, but we do not see the application of the penalty. So far, we have not seen a single one brought before a court so-called "cannalist." The media is writing about people like that. Names are mentioned related to famous PR families and so on, but there is no charge, there is no enforcement of the Law. The next article. 281 also raised sanctions for those who obtain for themselves or for other property benefits illegally, helping a foreigner to reside or pass in the country up to 5 years, and a fine of 3000 BGN. up to £10,000. Where did we see such sanctions being applied for real? They write and give information about buses, cars and any transport that enters Bulgaria. By the way, in this text of art. 280 is also available for those who, being officials, assist such illegal entry of people. For them, the punishment is even greater. Why does the Bulgarian State not apply the Law? This is the question that Ataka is asking at the moment to the government and specifically to the interior minister, as he is the glitter of the Law in the government. Why does the Bulgarian government not put this issue before Brussels? Where is the prime minister's report, the foreign minister's report, when they go to the highest level and meet in Brussels on this topic. We don't learn anything. We do not understand what is said there and what is said by the Bulgarian representative Prime Minister or foreign minister. We therefore insist that a hearing be held here as soon as possible by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Foreign Minister for Illegal Migration. What exactly were they told in Brussels? What is being prepared for Bulgaria? Because we read a statement by the head of the Agency for Refugees, which says 15,000 illegal migrants were expected to travel through Turkey. Given that these institutions usually save nine tenths of the truth, we can safely put a zero in place and say that 150,000 illegal migrants threaten us from Turkey. Some informed sources from the services say that an even larger wave is being prepared - 400 or 500 thousand, in the direction of Bulgaria. I don't want to scare you, but I want to ring the bell and if I can call on those who bear the greatest responsibility: the cabinet, the government, to do what needs to be done. What should be done? More September month 2013 "Attack" has brought it into the Ministry of Justice. It is enough to remove, apply, enter the Chamber and vote. There are clearly told what measures to stop illegal migrants from entering. It clearly says how those who have already entered, not to agitate and groan around them, but to extradite them where they came from, because this is the law, not because it is said by Ataka, Siderov or some other commentator, but because it is the law! We want nothing more from the government than to enforce the Law. If he can't do it, if the government can't implement the Bulgarian laws, then he must admit it and say like Stoyan Danev in 1911: Our policy failed. We're leaving. Who can handle it. There are people who can cope with both illegal migration and the crime caused by it and with all the mess that was created not only by the last government, by the previous and pó previous, but, anyway, because these governments listened unconditionally to what they were told in Brussels. Having become convinced that Brussels is not a source of clear signals, of a clear pro-European policy, of a consistent pro-European policy, and Brussels is lecturing between vassal behaviour towards Washington and the interests of banker oligarchy, which caused the 2008 crisis, then we must stop listening to so much Brussels. We need to start listening to the interest of the Bulgarian people, and he says so: to build a wall, to partition in any modern way the Turkish border, not to allow no more 15 thousand, 0,5%, and one person not to be allowed! Those who have already entered the Bulgarian territory should not be cared for with five times more money than a pensioner, but be ec-stra-di-ra-ni by the relevant institutions, with guards to the border and returned from where they came from. This is the application of the Law. I don't care what Davutoglu or Erdogan or their family and acquaintances say. This is the Law that Bulgaria must implement, and this is what the government must do to save us from a huge wave, which will now, at the time of the freezing, be directed towards Bulgaria. Don't doubt that. I think the Prime Minister said it himself a few days ago, but he said it as a finding. If you're a passer-by in Slaveykov Square, you can make some findings. When you're Prime Minister, you make a decision and act. In your hands is the lever of power. And I'm gonna say again and I'm gonna end up with this: if you can't handle this power, well, find some other activity and back off to the one who can handle it! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u68	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. We continue with a question to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev, asking by the National Representative Slavi Binev about a strategy for improving the opportunities for security of the Bulgarian airspace. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the capabilities of our Armed Forces do not meet the level at stake by NATO. It has recently become clear that we will most likely have to rely solely on our airspace security allies, which is absolutely unacceptable at this time. We're close to a number of conflict points. New threats to the country are also under way - an increasing migration flow towards Bulgaria, a danger of entering our territory of terrorist elements. Improving our security capabilities does not only include purchasing more modern equipment or repairing the available, but also increasing the level of military training of the pilots, attracting new personnel, upgrading the infrastructure, maintaining and developing the system of command and management of the Air Force and many others. In this regard, I ask you to present the actions identified by the Ministry of Defence to improve the level of security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as the preparation of personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u70	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, you have five minutes to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, first of all let me thank you for the question. I met very thoroughly with your written question, which seemed in a slightly different way, and I was very impressed by the analysis that you had done. Everything you say corresponds to the truth, of course, and I agree with your recommendations. The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is one of the main tasks for the Bulgarian army. At present, the Air Force has successfully secured our airspace security. The defence modernisation projects are primarily related to the renewal of the equipment of the armed forces, including the acquisition of new multi-purpose aircraft, new radar systems and the implementation of modern command and management systems. In this regard, I received a mandate from the Council of Ministers to make calls on the acquisition of a new multifunctional aircraft. But since this is a long and complex process until the acquisition of a new aircraft, and you are right, the Ministry of Defence is working actively to ensure the airworthiness of the available aviation equipment. Dear Mr. Binev, I would like to assure you that we will not have any problems in the near future with the security of our airspace, that is, this issue is not on the agenda. The possibility of joint implementation of the airspace security control tasks of the Republic of Bulgaria is also active. The Ministry of Defence initiated changes to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which created an opportunity to amplify air security with allied forces, but pay attention to this: only if necessary. This basically means the Bulgarian Air Force to carry out the tasks of protecting our airspace together with their colleagues from other Member States of the European Union. Note that joint security is part of the measures laid down in the Stand-by Plan adopted at the Wales Summit by all all allies. Bulgaria is the only country on the Eastern flank that has not yet made a legislative change allowing joint security of our airspace. On several occasions, this issue has been raised to the Defence Council, where it was discussed together with representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, as well as at a meeting of the Defence Committee. There is a procedure under way for public consultation of the Bill and it is available on the Ministry of Defence's website. Particularly important for improving the preparation of the Bulgarian Air Force is the implementation of joint trainings and exercises. In recent years, their numbers have increased significantly. With regard to the infrastructure, it is actively working to modernise the equipment at military airports. In addition, the Republic of Bulgaria is a leading country in the region in the conclusion of bilateral agreements for cross-border operations under the Air Polish Mission with neighbouring countries. Such agreements have already been concluded and are actually implemented with the Republic of Romania and the Hellenic Republic at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Binev, under procedure you are entitled to two minutes for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question here is a little different, not for anything else, but because I'm trying to bring in some other topics that excite society, because the problem is not just airspace, but the overall situation around our country at the moment. Keep in mind that one of the big problems when there is a mercenary army is that there is no doctrine. Here it is extremely important to know that there should be moral-ethical, even moral-spiritual preparation of the footage that are currently working to know that they are willing to sacrifice themselves for the motherland. For most of the parties with a patriotic taste, definitely one of the things they care about is an army with a great moral and combat spirit, in which in a completely different way things are put and not just a hired hand. Since the situation is quite different at the moment, perhaps attention should also be paid to military training at school. I'm glad the education minister is here. I believe that there is a need in society to create a system that will encourage the citizens of Bulgaria to have some insight into the military training at all. And not only do they have moral and ethical norms that build such a society to preserve the state, because the sewers are not Chinese, but are Bulgarians. They are ready, just as mercenaries defend the state for money, for money to do things that are to the detriment of our territory. For this reason, I think that a system should be created that not only repairs aircraft but also repairs the moral considerations of every Bulgarian citizen and builds a patriotic spirit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u74	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer these further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, once again thank you for the question, it is extremely important. I use the case from this tribune to announce that there is no and should not have any concern about the security of the Bulgarian airspace. Since the beginning of my term, I have paid extreme attention to the Air Force. We have done a little bit of the defense council, on which we have examined all these issues very carefully and we have reason to be sure that we can continue to guard our airspace until then, as long as it is necessary, of course. And as for your other question regarding morality, dear Mr. Binev, this is extremely important. I do not question the morality and preparation of Bulgarian pilots, but I would like to note that morality is a set. Much of the people who learn patriotism learn from the MPs and their actions. In this sense, the National Assembly is a major factor that generates moral and patriotic motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Binev, you have the right to express your attitude towards the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u77	Unfortunately, at the moment a large part of parliament can learn European values, not so much of patriotism, observing the actions of parliament, or at least clearly it could be so. I think it would be good to develop a system that is in a sporty way, or to look in some other way. For example, in the old days, there was a demand for the suggestion that should be made for the service of the motherland, through the church, in the East, they do it through martial arts and so on. We need to find a way for an additional system to build willpower qualities that are extremely important to an army, and a doctrinal training that, by the way, is missing at the moment, as our army, unfortunately, has been paid. You have to think in every way that all of this is going to happen so that society can work and be involved in all of this dough. To see how the Bulgarian patriotic spirit can return on the basis of the preservation of the borders and their unbreaking not only from the outside but also from the inside. Sometimes the boundaries don't surrender by attacking from the outside, but are transmitted from the inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u78	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, you are free to continue to carry out your duties. The questions to you are over. Mr. Bojinov on behalf of a parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! While I do not underestimate to the slightest extent the actuality and content of the questions raised so far, I would like to point out at the outset that today's parliamentary review will end after only two topical issues. It's not an accident.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u80	Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u81	And three, Mr. Chairman, this is nothing compared to the problems that worry, excite and are crucial to the Bulgarian society and Bulgaria. This is the result of a policy conducted by the ruling majority and the government to direct Parliament's activities helpfully in the interests of the government in order to win the upcoming elections. Ministers prefer instead of answering current and vicious questions, dialogue through the media with the Bulgarian society, no discussion, no counterarguments, no criticism. Parliament's agenda is also emptied of political content and debate. For example, a third week deviates from the involvement of the Interior Minister in parliamentary control by being abroad. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also not involved today with the argument that he is again abroad. What questions were before these two ministers? Yesterday we witnessed a terrible tragedy in Vitina's tunnel. Three weeks is waiting for an up-to-date question about two critical, dangerous points on the road between Botevgrad and Mezdra, landslides that make traffic movements from the districts of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, from the ferry in Oryahovo and Vidin's second bridge to the rest of the country impossible. Dangerous areas. A complete failure of the Agency, of one minister, of the second minister. Question to the Minister of Home Affairs.. Full inaction. That's why there are tragedies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is hearing from the media fragmentary reports of what NATO will do, how will the body to which we are a collective member act. The questions to the Foreign Minister are that he is a member of the NATO's supreme political leadership, the so-called North Atlantic Council. There the decisions are made by discussion and by free expression of the opinions of the individual countries. Our question. This inaction, this lack of hearing ability about the ways in which the crisis in North Africa will be overcome, is worrying. We want to know the NATO member states that have direct responsibility for the burning of the conflict, for the annexation of the territories of three sovereign states for the purpose of a permanent bloody conflict serving certain geostrategic interests, are they prepared to take responsibility for the peace of the region, for its economic stabilisation, which is the only possible factor in overcoming the refugee war? No fences, no nets, no faded flowers in Berlin can solve the problem. The countries responsible for burning this conflict and the real factors for international relations must find a solution to the conflict. We are interested in what is the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in this leadership of NATO and we do not want to hear from the media fragments what will happen in Turkey, who they condemn, who they support and with whom they have negotiated. We want to know from this tribune in front of parliament what is the position of the Republic of Bulgaria. She can't be heard, saw, wrote, said something, we're worried. Decisions in the North Atlantic Council, if we are an equal member, if the statutes of the organisation apply, require the parties to have positions and to be equal members. There's no Foreign Secretary. There is no Prime Minister for these matters. This is a particularly worrying subjugation of the vicious issues that are facing Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people, of the conjunctual election goals and interests. Even these issues are not dealt with with with the seriousness required. There are voice-buying signals coming from everywhere. They go into the media journals and comment on who's more insolent, who beat up journalists. In a moment, the most responsible are gathered in the National Assembly and the parliament must raise the question to them. Do they really want to give parties the opportunity for political competition and by the power of law to deny these vicious practices, or will we play law and responsibility?! It was interesting to hear from the Prime Minister, whose political supporters pleaded that the communist regime had no statute of limitations for crimes committed at the time, and from him we heard that buying votes for the previous elections had passed work, nothing to care about, this recording was from the past elections, it was not for these elections. So these questions are not just about the behavior of one politician or another. These questions are about how and why things are degradation in Bulgaria daily, the processes are going badly and the people are living worse and worse. Parliament is where these issues need to be discussed. The majority MPs are absent, the government ministers are absent, these issues are not on the agenda. And we're kidding ourselves that there's a pre-election race. Not at all. Those who have a lot of money again in a monologue through the media are irradiating the Bulgarian people, the most vicious problem is eliminated. And it is that politics and parties, true leaders give up space to money, games and foreign interests. That's why things are getting worse, and they're going to get worse. Mr. President, we express our strong dissatisfaction with the way the agenda of the National Assembly was formed on the eve of the elections, we strongly react to the lack of the planned blitz-control for the government. We protest that when it was postponed on Wednesday, they said it could be done by Friday, and today is Friday, and the ministers are gone. That's how you keep a man in power short-term and conjunctural. That's no way to work for a people or a country. This will have its price, but it will be after very severe consequences for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. We're going back to parliamentary control. To the question by the National Representative Stanislav Todorov Stanilov concerning the absence of a representative of the Cultural and Historic Heritage Department in the new Executive Council of the Fund Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u83	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! On 3 September 2015, you, Minister, appointed a new composition of the Executive Board of the Fund for Research. In the reasons for our decision you have announced that you have respected a balanced representation of scientific directions, the need for balance and norm referred to in art. 8, para. 5 of the Fund's Rules on Research. At the same time, it must also be synchronised with the provisions of the previous Articles 6 and 7, according to which the national research policy is conducted in accordance with the objectives and priorities of the National Research Strategy adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. As you well know, the National Assembly has adopted such a strategy and it sets out 5 priority directions. First, energy, energy efficiency and transport and the development of green ecotechnologies; second, health and quality of life, biotechnologies and ecologically clean foods; third, new materials and technologies, fourth, cultural and historical heritage, fifth, information and communication technologies. The opinion on the professional competence of the new composition of the Executive Board of the Fund shows deviations from the national strategy. Four of the priority directions are indeed presented in a balanced way, but none of the 4th-Historical Heritage Division representatives are included. In view of the poor heritage that the Fund brings, research and research, there was a concern that the Department of Cultural and Historical Heritage would not be seen as a priority in the new management of the Fund. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: why is not a representative of the Cultural-History Heritage Department included in the Executive Board of Scientific Studies? What measures will you take to remove this omission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u84	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Minister Tanev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u85	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! He's a highly esteemed professor. Stanilov, thank you for this question. The important thing at this time.. You said the date, the beginning of September, was to have a working Executive Council to complete the work that was not done or was sabotaged or otherwise in the previous three years. We have to pay off old debts, we have to deal with the debts for three universities, which have also been suspended three years, since 2014, we have 700 projects to pay back; we have to think and offer a new format in relation to this very well yesterday's forum. It is currently in a period of strengthening and obtaining a stronger and more pronounced profile. We have kept the procedure as far as possible, we have asked the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Economic Academy, the Council of Rectors, separate universities and so on: Sofia, Technical University, Chemical University, Medical University in Sofia and so on. The Executive Board does not include a representative of the Department of Cultural and Historical Heritage. One of the reasons is that the nominations did not find one, was not presented. That is, of course, no excuse. We've taken precautions in this direction. You know, you probably know that in some way I am also from this area and that I personally have in my family great representatives of the cultural and historical heritage and the struggle for it. We give 7 million to CERN for high science because this is good for Bulgaria and a composition of the National Assembly has decided that this is good. Personally, I tried and managed to raise the money for another type of science for the Antarctic expedition, more than twice. Now they're within 500 grand. I promise, I guarantee I'll do this as much as I can in this direction. In this sense, the cultural and historical direction as a priority, the Ministry of Education has prepared a new rulebook.. will be on the pages these days, when we increase the number of the Executive Board from 9 to 11 people. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure will be completed by a representative of this direction. If these changes do not occur until the announcement of the new session, I only guarantee with my own scientific and human dignity that by then I will do my best not to harm this direction in any way, but, on the contrary,
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u86	Thank you, Professor. Tanev. Here's your line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u87	Dear Minister, your answer pleases my question as long as it is only intent. I think you could ask the representativeship of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to point to you a person who can be placed in this direction. What you said was enough. Another question is that I will follow all of this, and given that a similar gap has occurred again, I will signal the National Assembly, as well as the Bulgarian public for such actions. I'm not sure that you stand at the bottom of this gap, but generally, as cultural heritage is popular only in society, in the ruling circles it is quite unpopular, you see, for it is very difficult and the commitments are difficult to bear. That's probably the reason. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u88	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Right on the back of the bed, Minister Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u89	Professor Stanilov, I understand your words as an investment, rather an advance of trust in what I will do. I'm not gonna abuse that! For me, too, this direction is very important. We are also working on it with colleague Vejdi Rashidov, who is currently here, and with the academies dealing with this issue. If our airspace can possibly be protected from..ear policing from foreign aircraft, believe me, Bulgarian children have no one else to raise them except us, and there is also no one else to care for our cultural heritage, there is no one else to care for our polar expedition and so on. That's perfectly clear to me! Indeed, I will enjoy your control of this issue and the actions that are subject to clarification, clarification through the media of the importance of this particular direction, where we are truly alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u90	Thank you, Professor. Tanev. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. To a question from the National Representative Stanislav Todorov Stanilov regarding a check of the Ministry of Culture in Nova Zagora Municipality will answer Mr. Vezhdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture. Professor Stanilov, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, on 8 May you took an obligation before the National Assembly to order a check on an alert for violation of the requirements of the law in order to appoint a director of the Municipal Museum in Nova Zagora. The mayor of the municipality had not conducted the contest in accordance with the requirements of the law and did not coordinate his appointment to the Ministry of Culture. The statutory verification deadlines expired at the beginning of June. Since then, there has been no official information about the results of the verification and what prescriptions have been given to the mayor of the municipality. The only sure thing is that a competition for director of the municipal museum has not been held and the post continues to be occupied by an incompetent and non-compliant legal person. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what prescriptions are given to the mayor of Nova Zagora Municipality for compliance with the legality of the municipal museum? Why has he not been subject to the administrative measures and fines provided for by this law? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u92	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Minister Rashidov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stanilov, colleagues! In the period from 1 to 3 June 2015 a check was carried out by the Directorate General "Inspectorate" for the preservation of cultural heritage in the Ministry of Culture concerning violation of the Cultural Heritage Act on the conservation and preservation of movable cultural values and illegal appointments in the Historical Museum "Nova Zagora." The verification carried out found the following infringements. Mr. Peychev was appointed director of the Historical Museum in Nova Zagora on a permanent employment contract with a probationary period of three months, which, with an additional agreement concluded, passes into an unlimited work contract. The employment relationship did not arise as a result of a competition for director and is in violation of the requirements of art. 28, para. 6 of the Law on Cultural Heritage and of Art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. In violation of the requirements of art. 28, para. 5, t. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act Mr. Peychev has not acquired an educational qualification degree in the specialty of the respective professional field of history and archaeology. He has graduated from the University of Sofia from Pedagogy. Mr. Peychev has no professional experience for three years, which is required under art. 28, para. 5, t. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act. In relation to the on-the-spot inspection the inspectors shall apply a compulsory administrative measure to Mr. Grozev.. Mayor of Nova Zagora Municipality, on the basis of art. 195, para. Art. 1 and 2 in conjunction with art. 32, para. 1, t. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act, ordering: Within 30 working days the mayor of Nova Zagora municipality to take action to stop execution of the functions of Mr. Peychev and to issue an order for the appointment of a temporary performer of the office.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Within 60 working days the mayor of Nova Zagora Municipality will issue an order for a competition for the position of the Head of the Historical Museum "Nova Zagora," according to art. 28, para. 6 of the Cultural Heritage Act. In view of the lack of official information from the municipality of Nova Zagora on the implementation of the forced administrative measure until now, an act of administrative infringement under the statutory deadlines under the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties should be verified and drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u95	Dear Minister, you have implemented the Law. The question is what is the result of the implementation of this law because the self-government of the mayors in Bulgaria is a well-known practice and especially for those mayors who represent the parties that are power. In this sense, I would like to say that the mayor of Nova Zagora is also from the party in power that rules the country, and most likely for this reason he allows himself to commit such violations. I hope you will follow his actions further. I will also follow them and ask new and new questions in this regard until the law is fulfilled as it should be in a law-abiding state, which we Bulgarians claim to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u96	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. You won't take advantage of Mr. Minister's right to dodge? Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the last question, which is to Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water, who will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev about the criminal procedure of the European Commission against Bulgaria because of the violation of European environmental legislation. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, dear colleagues! Bulgaria is facing another criminal procedure in the European Commission because of the illegal construction of wind parks on the territory of Kaliakra and the construction of a golf course and tourist sites in the protected area of the Belite Skali. It turns out that with these actions, the state violates European environmental legislation. The issue of the solution of the wind generators has been on the agenda for several years now and I consider it necessary to prepare an analysis of the situation in the areas in question to find out exactly where the problems lie. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: What measures will be taken to eliminate the risks to biodiversity in the region of Kaliyakras and the protected zone of the White Rocks and what will be undertaken to prevent a possible judicial procedure against Bulgaria because of violations? Another basic question: Will not the people who have allowed such a criminal procedure to be punished be punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Minister Vasileva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Binev, the criminal procedure for our country was launched by the European Commission in 2008. The reason for its launch and its movement to the judicial phase are actions, carried out mainly in the period 2007 - 2008, for the approval of numerous projects, without taking into account the commutative effect, mainly for the construction of wind generators in the area of Kaliakra. Actions to end the criminal procedure and correct the infringements have been taken as early as upon receipt of the Commission's reasoned opinion in 2012, namely: Firstly, the Environmental Protection Act was amended, which introduced a 5-year limitation on decisions to assess the need for environmental impact assessment (EIA) issued by the competent authority. As a result, a large part of the projects have already dropped out, as contracting entities have not taken any action to start the implementation of the sites, i.e. they do not have a building permit of 5 years after the environmental act was issued. An environmental assessment of the National Renewable Energy Development Plan was issued, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in January 2013. The RES Plan introduced bans for the approval of new projects in the problematic territory. With these two measures, it has been established that an excessive development of the area will not be allowed despite many projects approved in the past. It should be noted that in relation to the number of approved 2132 wind generators, the number of built-in In addition to these measures in 2013, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision implementing it from the beginning of the 2014 has increased the area of the protected zone of Kaliakra. The area for the conservation of wild birds to the borders of the ornithologically important site of Kaliakra and a new protected zone is declared for the conservation of wild birds. In addition, a new protected zone for the conservation of natural habitats of wild fauna and flora has been established and the area of the other two protected areas has been increased by the inclusion of sites occupied by the steppe habitat. At present, the Ministry of Environment and Water has commissioned the development of an integrated management plan for the three protected areas in the Kaliakra area. Specific measures for sustainable management of the areas covered by the protected zones will be drawn up with its adoption. It is expected that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union will be given at the end of this or the beginning of next year, but it should be borne in mind that our country has taken all the necessary measures to ensure the sustainability of the environmental components in the area, in particular the biodiversity. We expect that the scope of the judgment will be far more pressing than the European Commission's request. When a judgment is given, it will be established by its nature, Bulgaria will have already carried out all corrective measures, which will not result in a second case and will not impose financial sanctions on our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u101	I wish this would really be the case, to be able to handle this case and to actually not have criminal procedures to Bulgaria. But one must also consider the following: there are wind generators that exist at the moment. In other words, they are also subject to this report. Not only those that were going to be made, because there I am familiar, it really is about migratory birds, which are actually threatened in some way by wind generators. I'm not exactly aware of whether it's not because there have long been clean locator systems that say when the flocks are moving, and they stop, so we shouldn't be any danger to them, but the other question is, how is one allowed and not allowed for others? It should simply be borne in mind not to make it so that other companies that have already been ready to start and at the same time the criminal procedures remain for Bulgaria and at the same time we have stopped the implementation of other projects for which people have spent money, opportunities, time and so on. It is very likely that the measures, if they are merely half, the European Commission will not respect them. Golf fields. There are no other golf courses allowed outside those built there anyway. They are part of the report and the sanctions to be taken. Here we really need to see how far we can go and how far they would take it that it's all stopped at the moment. I have some people's assurance that in fact these half measures will not help to eliminate the criminal procedures against Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Minister Vassileva, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Binev, thank you for taking into account the efforts that have been made so far for the introduction of corrective measures. We believe that Bulgaria as a responsible Member State, after what was admitted at the beginning of the period of its membership in the European Union, as I said in the period 2007 - 2008 has already been corrected and legislative and administrative. All measures have been taken, including the Sustainable Management Plan in the territory for which I mentioned, further ensure monitoring and non-compliance of the protected habitats of the wild birds. As regards the Commission's reporting, in the course of the case, the court has engaged a Advocate General who has already reported what has been done by our country and proposes narrowing the scope of claims to our country. As I mentioned, it is expected that the decision, which will be of an established nature in the period when the violations are committed, but given the measures taken, we do not expect the sanctioning of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-10-09.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. This was the last question with which parliamentary control ended. Next regular plenary session on 28 October at 9.00 p.m. Have a good Saturday and Sunday! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
