ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, according to our programme for this plenary week, the first item for today is provided: Ombudsman's choice. The procedure shall be carried out on purposely adopted rules by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July 2015. There has been a report by the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Mr. Velchev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I would like to make a procedure based on art. 46, para. 2 for admission in the Chamber of the current Ombudsman and candidate for the next term Mr. Konstantin Penchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u3	Voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: for 167, against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite Mr. Penchev to the hall. We're listening, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on Hearing Candidates for Ombudsman At an open session held on 23 July 2015 and broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights held a hearing of the proposed candidates for the Ombudsman under Section III of the rules of procedure adopted for the proposal of candidates for the Ombudsman, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the procedure for secret voting in the election of the Ombudsman, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The meeting was attended by representatives of NGOs and media. The President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights announced that two proposals for candidates for the ombudsman have been made to Mr. Konstantin Penchev, proposed by the Parliamentary Group "Reformator Block" and to Mrs. Maya Manolova, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. All required documents under Section I, item, are presented to the proposals. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposals, together with all the documents to them and the opinions and questions received by non-governmental organizations, are published on the specialized website of the ombudsman and are made public. Opinions and questions to candidates will be presented in summary, as the report is quite bulky. According to Section III, t. 1 the submitted documents have been verified and the candidates comply with the requirements of the Ombudsman Act for taking up this position. The hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman took place in accordance with Section III, in alphabetical order of the candidates' own names. Mr. Konstantin Penchev's candidacy was presented by MP Korman Ismailov Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Reforming Block. Mr. Ismailov said that Konstantin Penchev was nominated by the parliamentary group unanimously and supported by many NGOs. He emphasized on the professionalism, the rich professional experience and the qualities of the candidate, which are indisputable both in the area of the justice system and in the legislative power. He is a respected lawyer, was chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court and MP. As Ombudsman, he has always held an active civic position, criticising the institutions. Mr. Penchev filled with content the Ombudsman institution, which in the first years when it was created, was incomprehensible and foreign to Bulgarian citizens. They were able to feel and see that this is an institution which, despite the framework, which is not very broad with powers, can very effectively put its finger in the problems of a balanced dialogue in order to protect the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens. Mrs. Maya Manolova's candidacy was presented by Mr. Atanas Merdjanov Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Merdjanov said that Mrs. Maya Manolova's candidacy was unanimously voted in the parliamentary group and supported by many NGOs. He emphasized on the rich experience and the undisputed legal and professional training of Mrs. Maya Manolova, who is the fourth consecutive term of office of the National Assembly. Mr. Merdjanov emphasized that Mrs. Manolova is famous as the initiator and defender of a number of civil and public causes, which bring to the end with a satisfactory and special result for the citizens she represents. The characteristic of it is that it is very often, thanks to its competence and personal qualities, far exceeds party frameworks, which gives it a particular advantage as a candidate for this responsible institution in the country. He pointed out the fact that Mrs. Maya Manolova is a person committed with a lot of energy in her work and believes that in her face the Bulgarian citizens will have an outstanding defender both in defending their rights and in pursuing their interests. Following the submission of the applications, the personal presentation of the candidates and presentation of their concepts for the work of the Ombudsman were moved on. In his exhibition Mr. Konstantin Penchev said that when he was elected for the first term as Ombudsman, he made two main promises. One to make the institution known; the other to be the primary priority in its activities to protect vulnerable groups. In his personal foster home, he met over 2,000 people, talked to them, listened to them, and tried to solve their problems. The institution has organized many foster homes in different towns and villages in Bulgaria, has organized many round tables for hate speech, for Alzheimer's, for Bulgarians abroad, for the rights of tenants, for homeless dogs and a number of other problems. In fulfillment of his second promise to protect the rights of vulnerable groups he has visited many homes for children, psychiatric hospitals, prisons, educational schools and boarding schools, refugee camps. As a national preventive mechanism, he visited and checked 461 sites and made 816 recommendations. After the intervention of the institution, many useful changes have been made to the Law on Consumer Protection, the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land and others. He fought and will continue to fight against the clerical insolence. During his term of office, the Ombudsman referred 11 times to the Constitutional Court, 7 times the Supreme Court of Cassation and 12 times the Supreme Administrative Court. During the entire five-year period, he has engaged in active dialogue with citizens, NGOs and institutions. In conclusion, he shared his views on the future of the institution, structural changes such as the creation of a children's ombudsman, public mediators in the field being regulated differently, because they are currently not acting. In her exhibition, Mrs. Maya Manolova said that from the parliamentary tribune she defended various, important causes for the people.................... against the monopolies, against the ERPs, against the private judicial contractors, for the social rights of the people, for the rights of health, minorities, as well as causes on important human rights issues. She said that after 10 years of parliamentary activity she concluded that the party political role was very narrow to the effective protection of civil causes and for this reason she decided to continue the most important cause for her.. the protection of the Bulgarian citizens in another relevant role.. the role of the Ombudsman, the defender of the Bulgarian citizens if she gained the trust of the Bulgarian representatives. According to her, the Ombudsman's institution needs new content, new energy, and this is the first thing it would change if it were elected ombudsman. The institution must develop the capacity to carry out all independent checks that it can justify on its own behalf. The possibility of self-selling, of proposing specific measures in typical cases, regulatory changes in the regulatory framework of the different institutions, of requesting a hearing in parliament should be used maximum. Given the huge problems, the endangered rights of Bulgarian citizens and their specifics in the various regions of the country, she believes that permanent admissions should be created in at least the six economic planning areas in Bulgaria with special representatives of the Ombudsman. According to her, the Ombudsman can be present in discussion and decision-making on all important topics for citizens. For example, at a meeting of the KEWRC, when the issue of the price of electricity is resolved, at a meeting in the NHIF, when the limits for hospitals are decided, in the NHIF, when the issue of social benefits is resolved. The Ombudsman may and should also attend the meetings of all parliamentary committees when discussing bills concerning the rights of Bulgarian citizens. In conclusion, Mrs. Manolova expressed her opinion that the Ombudsman should not run away from the hot rights issues. He should be the speaker of fair public opinion. The government itself should not be afraid of the critical and active ombudsman, because it can be his ally in both defending and solving the most severe problems related to citizens' rights. Following the submission of the candidates, the President of the Commission expressed in summary the opinions received by non-governmental organisations and the questions asked to them. In their opinions the NGOs, who expressed support for Mr. Konstantin Penchev's candidacy, praised his previous activities as a national ombudsman. They highlight his contribution to defending significant social causes, as well as his timely active and rapid decisions on the complaints and signals received in violation of the legal rights of Bulgarian citizens. Following the referral of the Constitutional Court, thanks to the Ombudsman, provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, the GPC and other laws that violate rights and affect citizens' interests are repealed. It focuses on his independence from political influences and biases as an important guarantee of maintaining the necessary balance in the democratic system. The supporters of Mrs. Maya Manolova's candidacy of non-governmental organizations highlight her fighting spirit and high professionalism, which has repeatedly been shown as an active position in defending important interests for society. They believe that it has all the necessary qualities to be a public defender. In her professional activity, Mrs. Manolova actively interacts with the non-governmental sector, works for transparency and accessibility to the decisions of the management bodies, enabling civil society organizations to make proposals when discussing and adopting various laws. Mrs. Manolova is a well-known public figure, knows the public processes and mechanisms of government and has the necessary legal training and competence to put on a wide public discussion of hot rights issues. The two candidates are asked by: National Association of Local Public Mediators, Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, Bulgarian Center for Not-for-Profit Law Foundation and the Bilitis Resource Center Foundation. The issues raised concern the status of local public mediators, the forced removal of vulnerable communities from illegal buildings, which represent the only residence of those affected, without providing alternative accommodation for those threatened with homelessness, hate crimes, the introduction of a legal framework for the families of same-sex couples, the most endangered and vulnerable groups in society, the application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the discrimination and harassment of people with different sexual orientation and the legislative framework of the gender change procedure. In their answers, the candidates for the Ombudsman expressed their position on the questions raised competently and thoroughly, as well as their views on the solution of the problems, changes in the Law on the Ombudsman, the Penal Code, the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, the Law on Persons with Disabilities, priority protection of vulnerable groups in society, preventive activities of the state, municipalities and the Ombudsman. With regard to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the optional protocol to this Convention must be ratified because it gives the instrument for effective protection to be implemented. The problems of people with different sexual orientation were noted that in Bulgaria the actual cohabitation between a man and a woman is not legally settled yet. In Bulgaria there are people with different sexual orientations. They have rights, but the initiative for legislative changes should not belong to the Ombudsman, but to these minority groups after public discussion. Questions to candidates for ombudsman were also asked by the MPs. They were related to their personal motivation to run for office "Ombudsman" and the budget of the institution and its reduction over the years, their views on improving the work of the institution "Ombudsman" and their political independence. The candidates answered these questions, which do not overlap with their previous answers and are not specifically affected in their exhibition. Mr. Penchev replied that the budget of the institution was reduced in the 42nd National Assembly and this made it difficult to operate as a national preventive mechanism. For his personal motivation to accept the nomination of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation bloc for a new term as Ombudsman, he said that the most important thing for his decision was to continue his work by completing what he started during his term of office. Mrs. Manolova replied that her personal motivation for accepting her nomination for ombudsman is the fair cause to which she wants to devote herself to protecting the rights of Bulgarian citizens as an active ombudsman. To the question whether it is politically independent and whether it would defend the rights of all Bulgarian citizens, she replied that an example of this is Mr. Konstantin Penchev, MP from the NMS, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, as she was. She is convinced of herself that she will be equally distant from all political parties. Finally, the President of the Commission stated that a hearing report will be submitted to which a draft decision on the selection of each candidate will also be applied. Colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u5	Honourable Members, according to the National Assembly Decision of 8 July 2015 adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates for the Ombudsman and the secret vote in the election of the ombudsman in Section IV, after hearing in the summary report submitted by the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, i.e. 3 provides that each candidate is to be submitted by importers within 2 minutes. I'm expecting the importers. Here you are, Mr. Ismailov. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am pleased and honored today in this procedure to present the candidacy of Mr. Konstantin Penchev, the candidacy of a successful Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Two minutes really is a very short time, but what I would say is that he is an experienced lawyer, a former colleague of ours, has reached the tops of the judiciary with his professional and human qualities, kept his name and subsequently held in the last term the position of Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, proved his balance and dedication in the work within his responsibilities. What you have done in the past term is clear and clear to society and to all MPs, because all the reports that the Ombudsman presented during the year were adopted with full support and approval of what this institution is doing. One of the most important things is that the institution has become very familiar and close to the Bulgarian citizens with very active and effective activity. We have witnessed such activity from what has been the result of the Ombudsman's activities as legislative changes in the meeting, work to protect the socially weak, consumers and, of course, broad support for the non-governmental sector, which has suffered very often and continued to fight in its clash with the weak administration. The Group of the Reformation Bloc has made sure that Mr. Penchev is running for a second term and we hope that all of you will have the opportunity to support Mr. Penchev for a second term so that he has the opportunity to build, to develop what he achieved during his first term. Thank you. Good luck to all the candidates!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Mrs. Manolova's candidacy will be proposed by Mr. Mihail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, two minutes is enough because Mrs. Maya Manolova does not need much introduction. Four mandates have been elected in the same area as a Member of the National Assembly with some results showing an attitude. She was a MP both in a ruling majority and in opposition, she saw both one and the other side of power and the representation of citizens' interests. Extremely active in defending citizens' interests when it was in government. On its initiative, the Commission for Working with Civil Society, with the non-governmental sector in today's Meeting, numerous meetings with NGOs and defending in parliamentary control, in legislative activity and in its daily work, the rights of the ordinary person, who is usually wronged in so far with the institutions. I believe that there is an exceptional quality of independence, which is extremely important not only as a requirement of the Law, but also as the meaning and content of the ombudsman institution, whose staff today will be designated for the third time in our modern history. I believe that Maya Manolova will well justify the election of the National Assembly to defend the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u8	Colleagues, following the presentation of the two candidates, I open the debate. Please let the Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in them give a sign. If there are no willing ones, should I close the debate? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm closing the debate. Before the vote, I ask the President of the Commission to produce the secret vote to instruct the Members of the National Assembly on how it will be conducted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the election will be made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 8 July this year. Three urns with three booths for them for a faster organization were made in the Western Hall and colleagues were distributed alphabetically. You will see the indexes "The first one is from "A" to "D" and the second one is from "E" and so on and the third one is the last names of colleagues in alphabetical order. The vote is within one hour in the West Hall. I would ask the vote to become more efficient so that the Commission can finally make the protocol and announce the results. The vote shall take place with a white ballot in which the names of the candidates are written. What is important to note is that it is noted in the box in front of the names sign.................................................................................................. Each Member of the National Assembly shall vote after voting, place the envelope with the ballot in the urn and sign before the Commission. Another thing I need to read to you is which ballots are invalid. When it is hand-made, torn, crossed or there are other signs on it, which I said it, it is found in the election box without envelope, the marked "X" is placed in more than one square or the one placed affects more than one box to vote on and it cannot be clearly determined the voter's will when the envelope contains two or more ballots with different contents and when the envelope is empty, the ballots are counted as one null one. And when two or more identical ballots with the same designation are found in an envelope, it counts as one real one. The vote, as I said, is within an hour, then a protocol is drawn up and I will read you the results of the vote again from this tribune. Thank you. Questions? [[Noise and lines.]] How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u10	I'm about to announce, guys! You're very impatient.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u11	The class will begin after the announcement by the chairman. [[Shouting, BSP!]] I understand the impatience to produce the choice immediately after the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u12	Mr. President of the Commission, are you ready? I am waiting for you to give me a sign that you have accepted and we are ready, and as soon as this is announced, we are going to vote. Now we're at the next point in the program: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 28 MAY 2015 TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u13	? RESPONSIBILITY? amending the National Assembly Decision of 28 May 2015 establishing a Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He amended the decision of the National Assembly of 28 May 2015 on the establishment of a Temporary Commission to discuss the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria (promised SG No. 40, 2015) as in t. 1 the words "No 554-01-103 of 26 May 2015' are replaced by "No 554-01-144 of 24 July 2015'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u14	I'm opening the debate. Is there one? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some may object that my proposal is formal, but I think it is also based on the content of the submitted Project. Currently, there are two amendments to the Constitution. In accordance with art. 154, para. 2 of the Constitution shall have a requirement not earlier than one month and no later than three months after the submission of the draft on it to have a pronunciation of the National Assembly. The three-month term of the first Bill expires on 26 August, which means that this project is valid. Its importers, if they so wish, have the opportunity to withdraw it. But since they didn't declare such a will, this bill can't be dropped. The question is, what is his fate after the three-month period? It is likely that the importers of this draft decision believe that the deadline is excessive and the very fact of its completion would not allow the National Assembly to return to its discussion. I don't want to get into a discussion about this. The answer is not so single, but at the date to which we will adopt this decision, we must adapt it in view of the fact that there are two bills and each has his own life, even though their content to a certain extent coincides. In view of these motives, I am making the following editorial proposal at the end of the Decision Project. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 to the words the number which is written, the words are replaced, the number of the second bill is added. So this, in my opinion, is the precise revision of the draft decision, which takes into account the fact that two draft laws have been put before the National Assembly in this matter. The same proposal for me not to speak, with the same reasons, applies to the next point, so let us consider it done on the next point, which makes these amendments to the draft which defines the composition of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u16	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u17	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Stoilov! Yes, that's the case. The deadline expires July 26th, but tomorrow is the last working day before the vacation to accept this proposal of yours, there is a resonant in it. This means that your parliamentary group may have to propose an extraordinary meeting to be voted on by August 26th in order to be able to deal with the first draft.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u18	A hole? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote first the supplement, which is basically, to Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, as in this. 1 the second number of the second bill shall be added after the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They voted 147 MPs: 51, Against 41, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the draft decision by importer, just as Mr. Lazarov introduced us to him. They voted 146 MPs: 121, against 23, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Before we move on to the next point, as I expected debates on the ombudsman's first election point, the House will be ready to vote and it will be held at 10.30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. until then we are in legislative action. The next item is the ninth item: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO CHANGE THE RULES FOR THE DISCLOSURE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, ACCEPTED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF JUNE 10, 2015 We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u19	? RESPONSIBILITY? amending the Rules on the procedure for the discussion and adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 10 June 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He amended the Rules on the procedure for discussing and adopting the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 10 June 2015. (prom., D.V., No. 44 from 2015), such as: 1.1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 before the title and in art. 1, para. 1 the words "No 554-01-103 of 26 May 2015' are replaced by "No 554-01-144 of 24 July 2015'. 1.2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 the following shall be added after the words. "28 May 2015" by decision of the National Assembly of 30 July 2015 and a comma shall be placed. 2. The decision shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Statements? [[Reply of National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Your proposal on t. 1.1, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u22	Colleagues, do you have any comments? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Yanaki Stoilov. 1.1. of the Decision instead of the replacement to write the addition. They voted 124 MPs: 37, against 29, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the draft decision, as presented to you by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov. Vote 131 MPs: 108, against 23, no abstentions. The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION AND RESTRUCTURING OF CREDIT AND INVESTIGENTS. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015, adopted at the first vote on 10 July 2015. The report will introduce us to the President of the Budget and Finance Committee, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015, adopted on the first vote on 10 July 2015, a draft for a second vote. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u24	We vote on the text of the importer on the name of the Law and on the name of Chapter One, supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The name of the Law and of Chapter 1 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u25	Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 1 to 4 including.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u26	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as Articles 1 to 4 including those supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. Articles 1 to 4 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u27	Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev, Chavdar Georgiev and Dimitar Gorov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 3 and para. 4 is out. 2. Alinea 5 becomes al. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u28	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Georgi Turnovalyski and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 21, against 58, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 5, supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 87, against 12, abstention 5. Article 5 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u29	The titles of Chapter 2 "Preparation of recovery and restructuring", Section I "Planning of recovery" and the text of art. 6 are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u30	We vote on the name of Chapter Two, Section I, and Article 2. 6 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against 1, abstention 1. Chapter two, Section I, as well as Art. Six are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u31	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. "Assessment of recovery plans Art. 7. (1) Within 6 months of the submission of the recovery plan under art. 6 and 8 and after consulting the competent authorities of the Member States where significant branches are located, insofar as this is relevant to the relevant branch, the competent authority under the Credit Institutions Act or the Financial Instruments Markets Act shall review the plan and assess its compliance with the requirements of art. 6, taking into account the relevance of the likelihood: 1. by applying the actions and measures proposed in the plan to preserve or restore the viability and financial situation of the institution or group, taking into account the actions and measures that the institution has taken or plans to take; 2. the plan and specific actions and measures in the different scenarios of the plan to be implemented quickly and effectively in the context of financial shocks, avoiding as much as possible significant adverse consequences for the financial system, including in scenarios that would lead to the implementation of recovery plans by other institutions within the same period. (2) When assessing the appropriateness of recovery plans, the competent authority under the Credit Institutions Act or the Financial Markets Act shall take into account the compliance of the capital structure and the funding structure of the institution with the degree of complexity of its organisational structure and its risk profile. The recovery plan shall be made available to the unit under art. 2, para. 2 or under art. 3, para. 2. (3) In case the unit under art. 2, para. 2 or under art. 3, para. 2 finds that the recovery plan provides for actions which may adversely affect the resolution of the institution, it may refer to the competent authority under the Credit Institutions Act or the Financial Instruments Markets Act recommendations for changing the plan. (4) The competent authority under the Credit Institutions Act or the Financial Instruments Markets Act shall notify the European Union parent institution or enterprise of its assessment and, where the recovery plan has material weaknesses or there are significant obstacles to its application, require them to submit a revised plan within two months. With the permission of the competent authority, the period may be extended by another month. (5) The European Union parent institution or parent undertaking may express an opinion on the assessment of the competent authority within 14 days of the date of notification. (6) The competent authority under the Credit Institutions Act or the Financial Instruments Markets Act may require the European Union parent institution or enterprise to make specific changes to the revised plan where it considers that weaknesses and obstacles have not been adequately addressed. (7) If the institution or parent undertaking of the European Union does not submit a revised recovery plan under para. 4 or if the competent authority considers that the identified weaknesses and obstacles are not adequately addressed by the revised plan submitted and that there is no possibility to remove them under para. 6, the competent authority shall require, within a specified period of time, the European Union parent institution or parent undertaking to plan changes in its activities in order to address the deficiencies in the recovery plan or obstacles to its implementation. (8) If the institution or parent undertaking of the European Union does not plan changes in its activities within the period under para. 7 or the competent authority shall consider that the proposed changes are not suitable for the removal of weaknesses and obstacles, the competent authority may apply measures provided for in art. 103, para. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act, respectively in art. 118, para. 1 and 2 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Eight and nine. Under art. 10 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: "Assessment of the recovery plans of the group by a consolidating supervisory authority Art. 10. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank, respectively the Commission, when it is a consolidating supervisory authority, together with the competent authorities of subsidiaries and after consulting the competent authorities of significant branches, insofar as this is relevant to the relevant relevant branch, shall examine the group recovery plan and assess its compliance with the requirements and criteria under art. 7, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 8. The assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 7, para. 3-7 and that Article, taking into account the potential impact of recovery measures on financial stability in all Member States where the group operates. (2) The recovery plan under art. 8, para. 1 is the subject of a multilateral procedure to reach a joint decision between the consolidating supervisory authority under para. 1 and the competent authorities of the subsidiaries of the group concerning: 1. review and evaluation of the recovery plan of the group; 2. the need to prepare a recovery plan on an individual basis for institutions that are part of the group, and 3. the application of art. 7, para. 4, 6 and 7 and the relevant requirements for the institution as part of the group as well as the imposition of the measures under art. 7, para. 8. (3) The time limit for reaching a joint decision under para. 2 is 4 months from the date on which the relevant consolidating supervisor under para. 1 has provided the recovery plan for the group in accordance with art. 8, para. 2. (4) Within the term under para. 3 the relevant consolidating supervisory authority under para. 1 may request from EBA in accordance with art. 31 point (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 shall assist in reaching a joint decision under para. 2. (5) If within the term under para. No joint decision under para 3 has been reached. 2 of the consolidating supervisory authority and the other competent authorities concerning the review and assessment of the recovery plan or measures required by the parent undertaking of the European Union under art. 7, para. 4, 6 and 7 or imposed under art. 7, para. 8, the consolidating supervisory authority referred to in para. 1 shall take a decision on its own taking into account the views and objections of the competent authorities of the subsidiaries expressed within the period laid down in para. 3. The decision shall be communicated to the parent undertaking of the European Union and to the competent authorities of the subsidiaries. (6) If within the term under para. No joint decision under para 3 has been reached. 2 and one of the organs under para. 2 has referred to EBA a question concerning the assessment of the recovery plan or the imposition of measures under art. 103, para. 2, p. 8 and 11 of the Credit Institutions Act, respectively under art. 118, para. 1, t. 11 and 17 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the consolidating supervisory authority under para. 1 postpones the taking of a decision on its own under para. 5 and awaits EBA's decision. In that case, the consolidating supervisory authority shall decide in accordance with EBA's decision. Where EBA does not take a decision within one month, the decision of the consolidating supervisory authority shall apply. (7) Where no joint decision under para. 2 within the term under para. 3, the consolidating supervisory authority under para.1 may reach a joint decision on the recovery plan of the group with those competent authorities under para. 1 which in the framework of the multilateral procedure for reaching a joint decision under para. Two didn't object. In this case, the plan shall only apply to the relevant entities of the group. (8) The joint decision under para. 2 or 7, as well as the independent decision under para. Five and six is final. (9) Where the competent authorities of the subsidiaries decide independently on the preparation and assessment of individual recovery plans or the imposition of measures similar to those under art. 7, para. 8 as regards their supervised subsidiaries, the consolidating supervisory authority under para. 1 may request from EBA in accordance with art. 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 shall assist in reaching agreement on the assessment of recovery plans or the implementation of measures similar to those under art. 103, para. 2, p. 8 and 11 of the Credit Institutions Act, respectively under art. 118, para. 1, t. 11 and 17 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, as regards subsidiaries. Under art. 11 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: "Assessment of recovery plans for the group by a competent authority with regard to an institution of a subsidiary Art. 11. (1) The Bulgarian National Bank, respectively the Commission, where it is a competent authority in respect of an institution of a group subsidiary, together with the consolidating supervisory authority, the competent authorities of the other subsidiaries of the group and the competent authorities of the significant branches, in so far as this is relevant to the relevant significant branch, shall examine the group recovery plan and assess its compliance with the requirements and criteria under art. 7 and 8. The assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 7, para. 3-7 and in accordance with the terms and conditions of art. 10, para. 2-9 taking into account the potential impact of recovery measures on financial stability in all Member States where the group operates. (2) If within the period referred to in art. 10, para. No joint decision under Article 3 has been reached. 10, para. 2 on the need to draw up a recovery plan on an individual basis for the institution of a subsidiary or the implementation of the measures under art. 7, para. 4, 6 and 7 at the level of a subsidiary, BNB, respectively, the Commission shall take a decision on its own. (3) If within the term referred to in art. 10, para. 3 any of the organs under art. 10, para. 1 has referred a question regarding the review and assessment of the recovery plan of the group to EBA in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, BNB, respectively, postpones the decision under para. 2 and waiting for the decision which EBA may take in accordance with art. 19 (3) of that Regulation. In this case, the BNB, respectively the Commission, shall decide in accordance with the decision of the EBA. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u32	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u33	Dear Mr. President, you are correctly making a remark about noise in the Chamber, but if there is no noise and this reading here is quick, under the nose, excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova, we are in danger of falling asleep. [[GERB lines.]] I'm serious. Whether I'm there or in the back, the way you read it fast, right under your nose, it's like we're learning to read it somehow doesn't work. Let's take it a little slower and more articulate. I know not everyone has this thing, but at least try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u34	There are separate sleeping quarters. Here, I think it's plenary. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u35	The question, Mr. Chairman, is not that we're going to sleep, but that they're putting us to sleep.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u36	If you keep quiet in the room, you will hear well, although it is difficult for me to hear what is read from the report on the noise that is in the room. Are there any statements under Articles 7 to 13 included? I won't. I shall put to the vote Members from 7 to 13, according to the Commission's report. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 78, none, abstention 14. The texts have been adopted. Mrs. Stoyanova, please continue to understand, although I don't know if this will help.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u37	Section II - Planning of the restructuring regime. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name. Art. 1 (1) (a) 14 to art. The Commission supports the text of the importer as members from 14 to 19. Under art. 20 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: "Actions to reach a joint decision and to coordinate Decision of the European Art. 20. (1) Where no joint decision has been reached by the resolution authorities under art. 19th para. 4 within the term referred to in art. 19th para. 5 the resolution authority at group level under art. 19th para. 1 shall take a decision on its own on the group restructuring plan. The decision must be duly reasoned and taken into account the views and objections of the other resolution authorities. (2) The group-level resolution authority under Art. 19, para.1 shall transmit the decision under para. 1 of the parent enterprise. (3) If within the term referred to in art. 19th para. 5 any of the resolution authorities under art. 18, para. 3, p. 2-4 has referred a question to EBA in accordance with art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the resolution plan at group level under art. 19th para. 1 postpones the decision and awaits the decision which EBA may take in accordance with art. 19 (3) of that Regulation. In this case, the group-level resolution undertaking shall decide in accordance with EBA's decision. Where EBA does not take a decision within one month, the decision of the group-level resolution authority shall apply. (4) In cases where a joint decision has not been reached, the resolution authorities of the subsidiaries shall decide on their own initiative and shall draw up and maintain individual restructuring plans for the group entities within their competence, such as until the expiry of the term under art. 19th para. 5 the resolution plan at group level under art. 19th para. 1 may refer a matter in relation to individual plans to EBA in accordance with art. 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. (5) The group-level resolution authority under art. 19th para. 1 may reach a joint decision with those resolution authorities which have not objected to the group resolution plan covering the group entities within the relevant competence. (6) The Joint Decisions under para. 5 and under art. 19th para. 4 and the independent decision under para. 1 is final. (7) The procedure under para. 1 and 4 shall not apply where a resolution authority has expressed a disagreement on the basis of an impact on the fiscal liability of its Member State. (8) Where, in the process of preparation of joint resolution decisions, a resolution authority decides in accordance with para. 7 that the issue on which there are objections concerns the fiscal responsibilities of its Member State, the resolution plan at group level under art. 19th para. 1 shall re-evaluate the group resolution plan, including the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities under art. 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21, 22, 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u38	Statements? I won't. I shall put the name of Section II to the vote, as well as the texts of Articles 14 to 24 including, in accordance with the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 85, none, abstention 11. The name of Section II and Articles 14 to 24 including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u39	Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the section. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. Chapter three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 26, Art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u40	Statements? I shall put to the vote the name of Section III, the name of Chapter Three, as well as Articles 25 to 33 including, in accordance with the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The name of Section III, Chapter 3 and Articles 25 to 33 including have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u41	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. From Articles 34 to 39, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u42	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of Chapter 4 as well as the content of Articles 34 to 39 including, according to the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The name of Chapter 4 and Articles 34 to 39 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u43	Under art. 40 The proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 40: Law of objection by the BNB, respectively by the Commission, when providing support from a supervised entity Art. 40. (1) Before providing support in accordance with an intragroup financial support agreement, the company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 1-5 as a group entity intending to provide financial support shall inform thereof: 1. The Bulgarian National Bank, respectively the Commission, as a competent authority; 2. the consolidating supervisory authority, if different from the authorities referred to in point (c). 1 and 3; 3. the competent authority of the group entity receiving the financial support, if different from the authorities referred to in point (c). 1 and 2; 4. The European Banking Authority. (2) In the notification under para. 1 shall be included in the reasoned decision in accordance with art. 39 and details of the proposed financial support. The notification shall also provide a copy of the group financial support agreement. (3) Within 5 working days of the date of receipt of the notification under para. 1 and the Annexes under para. 2, The BNB, respectively, may, by a reasoned decision, authorise, prohibit or restrict the provision of financial support if it considers that the conditions for group financial support under art. 38. (4) The decision of BNB, respectively of the Commission, under para. 3 shall be notified immediately to: 1. the consolidating supervisory authority; 2. the competent authority of the group entity receiving the support; 3. The European Banking Authority. (5) If within the term under para. 3 BNB, respectively the Commission, authorises the granting of financial support and if within the same period it does not decide to prohibit or restrict the support, the latter may be granted under the conditions provided to the competent authority. (6) The decision of the management body of the company for the provision of financial support shall be notified to the bodies under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. In accordance with Articles 41, 42, 43, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. Under Articles 44, 45, 46, 47, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. Under art. 48 "A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u44	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 48: "Coordination of early intervention measures and the appointment of a temporary manager with regard to groups where BNB, respectively the Commission, is a competent authority as regards a subsidiary Art. 48. (1) Where the conditions laid down in art. 44, para. 1 or under art. 46, para. 1 in respect of an institution authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is a subsidiary of a parent undertaking of the European Union, BNB, respectively, the Commission shall inform EBA and consult the consolidating supervisory authority before taking a measure under art. 44, para. 3 or under art. 46, para. 1. (2) The Bulgarian National Bank, respectively the Commission, shall apply the measures under art. 44, para. 3 or under art. 46, para. 1 on the basis of the results of the assessment of the consolidating supervisory authority and informs the consolidating supervisory authority, other members of the supervisory college and EBA of the measures applied. (3) Where BNB, the Commission and another competent authority, respectively, intend to implement early intervention measures by at least two institutions which are part of a group and operate within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and another Member State, the consolidating supervisory authority and the relevant competent authority of the institution authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, together with the other competent authorities concerned, shall take a joint decision by assessing the possibility of appointing the same interim manager for all affected entities in the group or for the coordinated application of early intervention measures in order to find a solution to restore the financial situation of the institution concerned. (4) The Bulgarian National Bank, respectively the Commission, may request assistance from EBA in accordance with art. 31 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 reaching agreement under para. 3. (5) Where no joint decision has been reached under para. 3 BNB, respectively the Commission shall, within 5 days, decide independently on the appointment of a temporary manager to the institution authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria and on the application of a measure under art. 44, para. 3. (6) In the event of disagreement with the decision notified by the consolidating supervisory authority or by a competent authority with regard to early intervention measures or the appointment of a temporary manager to a parent undertaking of the European Union, respectively to another group entity, or where no joint decision under para has been reached. 3, BNB, respectively the Commission, may, according to art. 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 refer to EBA a question concerning: 1. the implementation of the elements of the recovery plan corresponding to item 1. 4, 10, 11 and 19 of Annex No 1; 2. the application of measures within the meaning of art. 44, para. 3, p. 5 and 7. "Execution of art. Article 19 (3) of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts for Articles 40 to 43, the name of Chapter Five, as well as the texts of Articles 44 to 49, including, in accordance with the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. Articles 40 to 49, including as well as the name of Chapter Five, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u46	"Chapter 6 "Aims, Terms and General Principles of Restructuring ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. "Development objectives" (Art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. "Development of the decision on restructuring and the decision on the resolution of the restructuring and the resolution of the restructuring of the restructuring plan on the basis The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. The restructuring of financial institutions and holding companies and holding companies and holding companies shall be subject to the conditions laid down in Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. "Basic principles governing the restructuring " art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Six by importer, as well as the texts of Articles 50 to 53 including, in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The name of Chapter 6 and Articles 50 to 53, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u48	"Chapters 1 and 2 of this Annex shall be replaced by the following: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. "Extraordinary Manager" "Extraordinary Manager" "Extraordinary Manager" "Art. 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54. ..Chapter Eight................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. "Assessment for the purposes of the restructuring............................................................................................... 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. "Chapter 9.. General principles of the restructuring instruments....................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. Types of restructuring instruments. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. General principles of the implementation of the restructuring instruments 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57. "Chapter 10" "Instruction for sale of business". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. "Instruction for sale of business" "Art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58. "Instruction for sale of business: procedural requirements" "Art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u49	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the names of chapters seven, eight, ninth and tenth, as well as Articles 54 to 59, including on the Commission's report. Vote 78 MPs: 72, none, abstention 6. The names of chapters seven, eight, ninth and tenth, as well as Articles 54 to 59, including the Commission's report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u50	"Chapter 11" "Instruction" "Mostova Institution". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. "Instruction" "Motova Institution". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The establishment and operation of a bridge bank. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. The establishment and operation of a bridge intermediary. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62. "Motov financial holding company." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. "Chapters 12 and 12" "Executive Asset Facility". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth. "Instruction for asset-making'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64. "Chapter 13" "Treaty-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share-Share." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter XIII. General provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The purpose of the loss-sharing is to: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66. Additional exclusion from the scope of the loss-sharing instrument. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67. In the event of an additional exclusion from the scope of the loss-sharing instrument, the funding conditions and restrictions of FPB, respectively from the FPIP. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68. Section II - Minimum own funds requirement and eligible liabilities. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. A minimum requirement shall be applied. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69. "Application of minimum requirements through financial instruments for contractual loss sharing'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. "Coordination of the measures implementing the minimum requirements'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71. "Coordination of measures for the implementation of minimum requirements at individual level for an institution of a subsidiary company. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u51	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposals of the importer for the names of Chapters eleven, twelfth and thirteen, Sections I and II, as well as the content of Articles 60 to 72 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 70, none, abstention 8. The name of Chapters 11 and 12 and 13 of Sections I and II, as well as Articles 60 to 72, including the Commission's report, have been adopted. As I see that he is looking forward to voting for the Ombudsman, I am announcing a break because at 10.30 it is announced that the vote begins. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u52	The time determined for the secret election of the Ombudsman is over. We are continuing with the bill we are discussing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u53	Section III - Application of the loss-sharing instrument. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. "Assessment of the amounts in the case of loss-sharing. 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73. "Treating shareholders in loss-sharing or write-downs or conversion of equity instruments' art. 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 74. "Consequence of write-offs and write-offs" Art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75. "Evaluation and conversion of liabilities arising from derivatives" art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. "Co-efficiator of debt conversion into capital" art. 77. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. "Rescue measures accompanying loss sharing' art. 78. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78. "Principal for the rescue of the activity" "Art. 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79. "Requirements to the plan for the rescue of the business............................................................................................. 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80. "Accommodation of the plans for the rescue of the activity" "Art. 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81. Other provisions on the application of the loss-sharing instrument. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. sevents of loss-sharing and loss-sharing 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82. "Remove procedural obstacles to loss-sharing." 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83. supposed recognition of loss-sharing 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84. "Chapter 14" "State instruments for financial stabilisation"....................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u54	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Anblock Section III "Applying the loss-sharing instrument" together with members and their beneficiaries from art. Art. 73 to art. 84 including by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 77, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u55	"General provisions" "Art. 85. There is a proposal from the MP Turnovalyski and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u56	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter 14 - State instruments for financial stabilisation. Before that, we have the unwelcome proposal of Mr. Turnovalyski and a group of MPs. We are voting on the unsupported proposal from the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: 12, against 39, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 85 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u57	Types of government instruments for financial stabilisation. 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86. "Exercise the rights of the state"............................................................................................... Proposal of the MP Turnovalyski and a group of MPs in art. 87, para. 2 is repealed, the text of para. 1 becomes a text of art. 87. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87. "Appeal of a decision of the Council of Ministers." 88. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 88.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u58	Statements? I won't. I first put to the vote the proposal of Mr Turnovalyski and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 12, against 49, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 86, 87 and 88 by importer with their names supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u59	? Chapter 15? Depreciation of equity instruments? The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 15. "Receiving or conversion of equity instruments" art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89. "Development of decision making for the use of equity instruments" (Art. 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90. "Requirements for the application of the write-down of equity instruments" "Art. 91. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91. "Equation and procedures for the disposal or conversion of equity instruments" (Art. 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92. The procedure for the coordination of the findings in relation to art. Art. 90 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93. The Commission therefore concludes that the restructuring plan is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 16th. "General Powers................................................................................ 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94. ? Additional The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95. The right to require the provision of services and.......................................................................................... 96. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 97. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98. The powers relating to assets, rights, obligations, shares and other instruments of property located in third countries..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99. In the case of early intervention and restructuring, the exclusion of certain contractual conditions shall be subject to an early intervention and restructuring. 100. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100. The powers to suspend the execution of certain obligations............................................................................................. 101. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101. "Restricting the implementation of secured interests" "Art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102. "Temporary suspension of the exercise of the right of termination" "Temporary suspension of the exercise of the right of termination" "Temporary suspension of the exercise of the right of termination" 103. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. "Exercise restructuring powers" " 104." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter seventeenth. "Treating of shareholders and creditors in partial transfers and using the loss-sharing instrument" art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105. "Assessment of the difference in the scope of the risk assessment" Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106. "Protective mechanisms for the shareholders and the creditors" art. 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107. "Defensible mechanisms for counterparties in the case of own funds and other financial instruments" (Article 4 (1) point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108. "Protection of financial collateral agreements, seizure agreements and borrowing agreements' art. 109. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109. "Protection under collateral agreements" "Art. 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 110. For the protection of structured finance agreements and covered bonds, art. 111. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111. "Protection of systems ensuring the finality of the settlement" "Art. 112. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112. ? Chapter 18???????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter eighteen. "Requirements for notification" "Art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113. The resolution authority's decision on the taking of the actions under the restructuring and the implementation of the restructuring plan shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114. "Processive liabilities of the resolution authority" art. 115. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 116. "Chapter Nineteen" "Right of appeal and exclusion of other actions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Nineteenth. Law of Appeal of decisions................................................................................ 117. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 117. Other legal proceedings shall be restricted to other legal proceedings and shall not be subject to any of the following conditions: 118. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118. "Chapter 20" "Restructuring of cross-border groups." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty. General principles concerning the decision-making process with the participation of more than one Member State 119. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 119. "Restructuring Agreements" and "Restructuring Agreements" shall be published in the Official Journal of the European The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120. "Participation in the resolution college" "Art. 121. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 121. "European resolution colleges"................................................................................................. 122. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 122. "Importation of information" (Article 2 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 123. "Restructuring of a group with the participation of a subsidiary from the Republic of Bulgaria " art. 124. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 124. "Restructuring with participation of a subsidiary outside the Republic of Bulgaria, where the BNB, respectively, is a group-level resolution body. 125. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 125. "Restructuring of a group where the BNB, respectively the Commission, is a resolution body at group level. 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 126. "Restructuring of a group where the BNB, respectively the Commission, is a resolution body of a subsidiary company.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 127. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 127. "Cooperation in restructuring of entities in a group" art. 128. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 128. "Chapter Twenty-First Relations with Third Countries." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-First. "Acknowledgment and implementation of restructuring procedures of a third country." 129. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129. Law to refuse the recognition or implementation of the restructuring procedures of a third country. 130. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 130. "Restructuring of a branch of an institution from a third country" art. 131. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 131. "Cooperation with the authorities of a third country." 132. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 132. "Communication of sensitive information" "Art. 133. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 133. "Chapters Twenty-Two" for the financing of the restructuring and restructuring. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Two. The Bank Restructuring Fund and the Bank Restructuring Fund shall be subject to the conditions laid down in Article 4 (2) of Regulation The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 134. "Restructuring Fund for Investment Intermediaries" (Art. 135. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 135. "Management of the restructuring funds" art. 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 136. Use of the funds of the restructuring funds.............................................................................................. 137. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 137. "Aim level and sources of fundraising" art. 138. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 138. ............................................................................................... 139. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 139. "Extreme contributions" art. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 140. "Alternative funds for financing" (Art. 141. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 141. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 142. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 142. Use of the restructuring funds in the restructuring of a group. 143. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 143. Use of FGBB in the restructuring process. 144. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 144.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u60	Colleagues, statements on Heads with numbers from fifteen to twenty-two, including those are members from 89 to 144 inclusive? Is there? Anblok, I vote from Chapter 15 to Twenty-Two, including the names of members with numbers 89 to 144 included. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u61	"Chapter Twenty-Three" - Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Twenty-third. "Administrative violations and penalties" "Art. 145. Under art. 145 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 145: "Administrative infringements and penalties" Art. 145. (1) In the event of non-compliance with the requirements of art. 6, 8 or 9 for the preparation, maintenance or updating of recovery plans, of art. 14, para. Art. 9 and 11, Art. 40, para. 1 or in art. 113, para. 1 is required on: 1. a natural person who is fined up to the amount of 5 million equivalent. EUR; 2. a legal person, a payment of up to 10 per cent of the total annual net turnover; where the legal entity is a subsidiary, the turnover shall be taken as a net turnover according to the consolidated accounts of the European Union parent undertaking for the previous year. (2) Where the value of the profit or loss realised as a result of the infringement under para. 1 may be determined, a fine shall be imposed on the person, a financial penalty accordingly, up to the double amount of the realised profit, respectively the avoided loss. (3) When the natural person under para. 1, t. 1 is a member of a management body or senior management staff of the bank, respectively the investment firm or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3-5, or is another natural person responsible for the punishment under para. 1, t. 1 or para. 2 a temporary ban on holding positions in banks, investment firms or companies under art. 2 may also be imposed on him. 1, para. 1, t. Three-five. (4) Outside the cases under para. 1-3, in the event of a breach of that law or of a legal act implementing it, if the act does not constitute a criminal offence, shall be imposed on: 1. natural person - fine from 1000 to 4000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 3000 to 12 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. an institution, financial institution or parent undertaking, a penalty of 50 000 to 200 000 BGN, and in case of a repeated infringement from 200 000 to 500 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. a legal person, other than an institution, financial institution or parent undertaking of BGN 5000 to 20 000, and in case of repeated infringement of BGN 20 000 to BGN 50 000 "Establishment of infringements and imposition of penalties" art. 146. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 146. "Publishing of information on the imposed administrative penalties" "Art. 147. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 147. "Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u62	That's it. Colleagues, speeches on the name of Chapter twenty-third Art. 145 of the Commission, Art. 146, 147 and the name of the division Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-third, Art. 145 in the version of the Commission report, art. 146 and 147 with their names and the version of the importer supported by the Commission and the additional provisions and which is the name of that division. Vote 97 MPs: 87, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u63	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The shareholders are holders of ownership instruments. 2. The senior management staff shall be the natural persons exercising executive functions in an institution who are responsible and accountable to its management body in relation to its ongoing management. 3. "Innovator" is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 6 of the Additional provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks. 4. In the case of a group entity, the group entity shall ensure the obligations of another group entity in front of a third party. 5. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. 6. The company is a parent undertaking and its subsidiaries. 7. The decision is a resolution action: (a) Bank or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 2-4 to be put into restructuring mode under art. 51 or 52; (b) to implement a restructuring instrument; (c) exercise one or more restructuring powers. 8. "Derivati" is a concept within the meaning of Article 2 (c). 5 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OB, L 201/1 of 27 July 2012) hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. 9. "Long instruments" within the meaning of art. 94, para. 2, p. 7 and 10 are bonds and other forms of transferable debt, instruments with which debt is created or recognised, and instruments providing rights to acquire debt. 10. It is a concept within the meaning of Article 4, point (c) of Article 4 of the basic Regulation. 1, t. 16 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 11. The creditor concerned is a creditor whose claim relates to an obligation that is reduced or converted into shares by exercising the power to devaluation or conversion due to the use of the loss-sharing instrument. 12. So a branch is a branch that would be designated as significant within the meaning of art. 87a or 87b of the Credit Institutions Act, respectively under art. 68a of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 13. In the case of State aid, the State aid must be limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs incurred by the beneficiary. 1, para. 1, t. 3-5 or the group from which this institution or company is from. 14. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in the balance sheet. 15. In the case of an investment firm, an investment firm shall be considered to be an investment firm within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b) of the CRR. 2 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 subject to the initial capital requirement provided for in Article 28 (2) of Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/48/EC (OJ L 176, 338 of 27 June 2013.). 16. "Investor" is an investor within the meaning of the Law on the Public Offering of Books. 17. The institution is a credit institution or an investment firm. 18. A parent institution in a Member State shall be a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b). 28 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 19. The European Union parent institution is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b). 29 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 20. "Institution in the restructuring regime' is a bank, investment firm, financial institution, financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, parent financial holding company in a Member State, parent financial holding company in the European Union, parent mixed financial holding company in a Member State or European Union mixed financial holding company which is subject to restructuring action. 21. A third-country institution is a person whose head office is established in a third country that would comply with the definition of an institution or investment firm if it was established in the European Union. 22. Common Equity Tier 1 instruments are equity instruments that meet the conditions laid down in Article 28 (1) to (4), Article 29 (5) or Article 31 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 23. Additional Tier 1 instruments are equity instruments that meet the conditions laid down in Article 52 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 24. T2 instruments are equity instruments or subordinated loans that meet the conditions laid down in Article 63 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 25. "Instructions of ownership' are shares, other instruments that give title, instruments that can be converted into shares or other instruments of ownership or give right to acquire such shares and instruments that constitute rights in shares or other instruments of ownership. 26. The requirements set out in Articles 92 98 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall be those set out in Articles 92 and 98 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 27. The term "Clon' is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 17 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 28. The conversion factor is the rate by which the number of shares in which the obligation of a particular class will be converted in relation to an instrument of this class or to a specific unit of the debt claim value is determined. 29. "Competent authority' is a concept within the meaning of point 40 of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, including the European Central Bank as regards the specific tasks entrusted to it under Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013 conferring specific tasks on the European Central Bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions (OJ L 287, 29 October 2013). 30. The Member States' ministries of finance or other ministries responsible for decisions in the economic, financial and budgetary areas at Member State level shall be competent. 31. The consolidated supervisory authority is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 41 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 32. "Credit institution' is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b). 1 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 33. "Critical functions' are activities, services or operations whose interruption may lead to a breakdown in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State in the provision of services of important importance to the real economy or to disrupt financial stability due to the size, market share, external and internal interconnections, complexity or cross-border activities of the institution or group, in particular the substitution of those activities, services or operations. 34. The group-level financing mechanism shall be a mechanism or funding mechanisms for the Member State in which the group-level resolution authority is located. 35. "Micro-, small and medium-sized enterprise' is an undertaking whose annual turnover does not exceed the annual turnover set out in art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 of the Small and Medium Enterprises Act. 36. The crisis prevention measure is the exercise of powers to immediately remedy gaps or obstacles to recovery under art. 7, para. 7 and 8, the exercise of powers to overcome or remove obstacles to the possibility of restructuring under Art. 8. 29, the application of an early intervention measure under art. 44, the appointment of a temporary manager under art. 46 or the exercise of the depreciation or conversion powers under art. 89. 37. The crisis management site shall be an action on restructuring or appointment of an extraordinary manager under art. 54. 38. On a consolidated basis it is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b). 48 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 39. The Board of Supervisors shall be a college of supervisors within the meaning of art. Art. 92e or art. 92 is from the Credit Institutions Act. 40. It is an obligation in which the creditor's right to receive a payment or other form of execution is guaranteed by a burden, pledge or real security or by another collateral agreement, including liabilities resulting from repurchase transactions, and other collateral transfer arrangements. 41. In the case of an entity that is not a group entity, it is not a group entity that is not a group entity or a group entity that is not a group entity that is not a group entity or a group entity that is not a group entity or a group entity that is not a group entity. 42. The resolution authority shall be a body designated by a Member State that is authorised to apply the resolution instruments and to exercise the resolution powers. 43. The group-level resolution authority shall be the resolution authority of the Member State where the consolidating supervisory authority is established. 44. The main business activities are business activities and related services which represent substantial sources of income or profit or which have other added value for an institution or group. 45. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in this column. 5 of the additional provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks or under comparable legislation of a Member State. 46. The competent authority shall be the authority of a Member State that has the powers to devaluation or conversion of equity instruments. 47. "Current bonds" is a concept within the meaning of art. 129 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 48. The recovery potential is the institution's ability to recover its financial position after a significant deterioration. 49. The legal framework of the European Union for State aid is the framework established by Articles 107, 108 and 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Regulations, as well as other acts, including guidelines, communications and notices drawn up or adopted pursuant to Article 108 (4) or Article 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 50. The right to terminate is the right of termination of a contract, the right to declare an earlier demand, termination, seizure or netting of obligations or similar means of amending, suspending or terminating the contract or provisions preventing the occurrence of a contractual obligation which, in other cases, would arise. 51. A parent undertaking is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 15 point (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 52. The European Union parent undertaking is a European Union parent institution, a European Union parent financial holding company or a European Union parent mixed financial holding company. 53. The parent undertaking is a parent undertaking, a parent financial holding company or a parent mixed financial holding company established in a third country. 54. "Restructuring' is the implementation of a restructuring instrument in order to achieve one or more of the objectives of restructuring. 55. The group's restructuring is: (a) taking resolution actions at the level of a parent undertaking or institution subject to consolidated supervision; or (b) coordination of the implementation of resolution instruments and the exercise of resolution powers by the BNB or another resolution authority in relation to group entities eligible for resolution. 56. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 1, para. 1, t. 2-4 not excluded from the scope of the loss-sharing instrument under art. 66, para. 2. 57. supposed to be an entity to which ownership instruments, debt instruments, assets, rights or liabilities are transferred or any combination thereof by an institution in a restructuring regime. 58. The insolvency proceedings shall be a universal enforcement which results in a partial or full release from assets by the debtor and the appointment of a liquidator or trade union that applies to institutions under the applicable legislation and which is specific to those institutions or is generally applicable to each person. 59. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.). 60. It is a day different from Saturday, Sunday or any other day, which is a public holiday in the Republic of Bulgaria. 61. A regulated market is a regulated market within the meaning of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 62. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row. 63. The Management Board and Supervisory Board, Board of Directors or other body appointed in accordance with national law, which has the power to determine the strategy, objectives and overall direction of the institution or company under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3-5 and which supervises and monitors decision-making at management level and includes persons who carry out the actual management of its activity. 64. A systemic crisis is a collapse in the financial system that can cause significant adverse consequences for the markets and the real economy, with systemic significance for all types of financial intermediaries, markets and infrastructures. 65. "Complex financial holding company" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 21 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 66. A parent mixed financial holding company in a Member State shall be a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b). 32 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 67. A Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union 68. "Own equity" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 118 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 69. A securitisation agreement is an agreement under which several claims or obligations may be converted into one net claim, including close netting agreements, under which, upon the occurrence of an event requiring execution, the obligations of the parties become early required or terminated, either being converted into one net claim or being replaced by one, including the orders for termination of the payment service and payment systems Act and the net lending within the meaning of Chapter 5 70. It is an agreement under which two or more claims or liabilities between the bank in the restructuring regime and a counterparty can be taken against each other. 71. A transfer-action financial guarantee agreement is a transfer-action financial security agreement within the meaning of the Payment Services and Payment Systems Act. 72. The group entity is a legal entity that is part of a group. 73. The deposit guarantee scheme is a deposit guarantee scheme introduced by the Bank Deposit Guarantee Act or similar legislation of another Member State. 74. A third-country authority is a third-country authority responsible for performing functions comparable to those of resolution authorities or competent authorities under that law. 75. The parent institution is a parent institution in a Member State, European Union parent institution, financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, mixed financial holding company, parent financial holding company in a Member State, European Union parent financial holding company, parent mixed financial holding company in a Member State or European Union parent mixed financial holding company to which the loss-sharing instrument applies. 76. Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments are relevant capital instruments. 77. The group is a group where there are group entities established in more than one Member State. 78. The restructuring conditions are the conditions set out in art. 51 and 52. 79. "Financial holding company" is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 20 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 80. The term "Mother financial holding company" in a Member State is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 30 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 81. The European Union financial holding company is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 31 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 82. A financial institution is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 26 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 83. The following contracts and agreements are financial contracts: (a) securities contracts including: (aa) contracts for the purchase, sale or lending of a security, group or index of securities; (bb) options on a security, group or index securities; (c) a repurchase transaction or reverse repurchase transaction in relation to any such security, group or index; (b) contracts for goods, including: (aa) contracts for the purchase, sale or lending of goods, group or index of goods subject to future delivery; (bb) options on commodity, group or index of goods; (c) a repurchase transaction or reverse repurchase transaction in relation to any such commodity, group or index; (c) futures and forward contracts, including contracts (other than commodity contracts) for the purchase, sale or transfer of goods or property of any other nature, service, right or participation for a specific price at a future date; (d) swap agreements, including: (aa) interest rate swaps and options; spot or other currency exchange agreements; foreign exchange swaps and options; equity index swaps and options or individual equity instruments; debt index swaps and options or individual debt instruments; commodity index swaps and options or individual goods; weather swaps and options, emissions or inflation; (bb) total profitability swaps or credit spreads and credit swaps; (c) agreements or transactions similar to an arrangement under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) that are subject to subsequent trading on the markets for swaps or derivatives; (e) interbank lending agreements with a period of three months or less; (f) framework agreements for some of the contracts or agreements referred to in points (a) to (e). 84. In the case of a mixed activity, it is a concept within the meaning of Article 4 (1), point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 22 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 85. A central counterparty is a concept within the meaning of Article 2 (c). 1 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012. 86. The objectives of the restructuring are the objectives of the restructuring referred to in art. 50, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor for speech under § 1, honourable Members. There are no speeches. We are voting § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: 75 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Paragraph 8. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 8 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8. According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Glauchev and Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) In order to ensure the effective functioning of the financial system and the need to ensure greater transparency of financial market operations in the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with the National Reform Programme Europe 2020, adopted by Decision No 28 of the Council of Ministers of 2015, the BNB shall organise a review of the quality of the assets of the entire banking system, including a verification of the quality and adequacy of the valuations used for asset value, accepted collateral and improvisation practices in the participation of independent outsiders with a high professional reputation. The review referred to in the first sentence shall be carried out within 12 months of the entry into force of this Law. (2) The review under para. 1 shall be carried out by a methodology corresponding to that applied by the European Central Bank in the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism and taking into account the need to ensure financial stability and to strengthen confidence in the financial system. (3) After reporting the results of the review under para. 1 BNB conducts stress tests of the entire banking system within the meaning of art. 80b of the Credit Institutions Act in order to establish the ability of banks to absorb unexpected losses in emergency stress situations. (4) On the basis of the results of the review under para. 1 and stress tests under para. 3 BNB takes the necessary measures within its legal powers to ensure the coverage by banks of potential capital shortfalls established as a result of the asset quality review or because of the need to strengthen the ability of the banking system to absorb unexpected losses in emergency stress situations. (5) The costs related to the review under para. 1 for a specific bank is at the expense of the bank concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10. ................................................................................... In the Credit Institutions Act...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u66	That's it. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division, which shall be translated and concluded, as well as paragraphs 2 to 12 including, on the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 90, none, abstentioned 9. The name of the department of transit and final provisions and paragraphs 2 to 12 by importer have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u67	Colleagues, here we will interrupt the second reading of this Bill, as Mr. Evgeni Stoev, Chairman of the Ombudsman Election Commission, is in the Chamber. He's holding a file. He's probably done announcing the result. Mr. Stoev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, today on the basis of art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman The National Assembly held a secret vote on the submitted proposals for the election of the Ombudsman. I announce the results: the total number of votes voted by the MPs - 223 who voted for Konstantin Lyubenov Penchev - 82 who voted for Maya Bozhidarova - Manolova - 129. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Here it should be said that we were looking for over 112 and up votes valid ballots in order to have a valid elected Ombudsman. Number of ballots that have been torn and crossed out with other characters: number 1; number in which the sign has been placed in more than one square or the sign placed affects more than one box of votes and cannot be identified in a single voter's will. Number of ballots in which the sign is not placed in any square. A total of 12 ballots invalid. On the basis of the results of the secret vote and on the basis of art. 91a, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 8, Art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the National Assembly decided: The Commission elects the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria with 129 real votes Maya Bozidarova Manolova. Thanks to the Commission, the protocol is signed, there is none with particular opinion. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u69	Dear colleagues, let us congratulate Mrs. Manolova, elected Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Law provides for an oath to be taken. This will happen to this Chamber of the National Assembly after the conditions have been fulfilled, in this particular case after the presentation of a document by Mrs. Manolova for termination of membership in a political party. Once again, congratulations! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u70	Honourable Members, Madam President! I thank all those who supported me for the confidence that I will be an effective, true and worthy defender of the Bulgarian citizens. I also thank those who did not support me because I will have the challenge of really proving that I can be the good Ombudsman. I'm going to miss Parliament. I will miss the parliamentary tribune, I will miss the passion of the parliamentary battle, but I will have another, no less important battle for the rights of Bulgarian citizens. I will miss you, too, perhaps some of you will miss me, but we do not separate permanently, as the Ombudsman also has a job in parliament, whenever important bills concerning the rights of Bulgarian citizens are discussed. So I'm sure we'll work well together. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Colleagues, now after the excitement of anticipation of the result, we can continue with the second reading, which goes very dynamic under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u72	Madam President, I would like to re-vote on § 12. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u73	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 12. Vote 95 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u74	Under Paragraph 13, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. 92 from 2002; amend. and Dop., No. No. 67 of 2003, No. 36, 2004, No. No. 31 and 105 of 2005, No. 30, 34, 59 and 80 of 2006, No. No. 53 and 59 of 2007, No. No. 67 of 2008, No. 105 of 2011 No. No. 98 of 2014 and No. 22 from 2015) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by a decision issued by the Governing Council of the Central Bank. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 after the word "quaestors" Madam President, may I have some order in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u75	Colleagues, order in the court! Go second reading of the bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u76	"2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 after the word "quaestors" shall be added either by those appointed in accordance with art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 temporary Syndicates. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, t. 2 a point shall be placed after the words supposed by the fund and the text to the end shall be deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 4 after the words of the Quaestors, the...................................................................................................... 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 after the word "questors" shall be added "or temporary syndics." 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 and 2 after the word "qualifiers" shall be added "or temporary syndics"; (b) the creation of para. 5. In cases where temporary Syndicates are not appointed, the actions referred to in this Article shall be carried out by the Syndicates after taking up their duties. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 2 and 3 after the word "questeurs" shall be added "or temporary Syndicates." 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 3 Finally, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank Restructuring Fund and the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund are added in relation to restructuring actions under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. (b) c. 4 a point and a comma shall be placed after the word "subrogated' and the text to the end shall be deleted; (c) a new item shall be created. 4a: 4a. claims on depositors that are natural persons or micro, small and medium-sized enterprises for the part that exceeds the amount of the guarantee under the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks; (d) shall be established. 4b: 4b. claims on other depositors not covered by the liquidity guarantee system; (e) the current t. 4a becomes t. 4c. 9. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) A new item shall be created. 6: It's six. A micro, small and medium-sized enterprise is an undertaking whose annual turnover does not exceed the annual turnover determined in art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 of the Small and Medium Enterprises Act. b) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraph 11, t. 8 shall not apply to insolvency proceedings opened before the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u77	Quiet, please! Do you have any comments? We are voting for the Commission's version of § 13 by importer, which becomes § 11 in the Commission's report. They voted 83 MPs: 79, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 11 until the Commission report has been adopted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with the corresponding text in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: 84, none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with the corresponding text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u78	The Commission shall have the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 14. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 16 and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 16. Under § 19 Articles 23a, 23b, 23c-d-e-g-z-i-c-l-m to 23u, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u79	Let's stop here. Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 13 to 17 including the numbering in the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 13 to 17 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u80	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union with the exception of: 1. Art. 139, para. 1-4, para. 6 and para. 9-11, which shall enter into force with regard to investment firms from 1 January 2017; 2. Art. 139, para. 7 and 8, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2025
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u81	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposals to create a new § 18 together with its content, according to the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u82	Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 6 "Content of the recovery plan". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1. Annex 2 to art. 14, para. 11 and 12 "Content of the restructuring plan'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2. Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 2 "Minimal information required by the resolution authority by institutions at individual and group level necessary to prepare and update restructuring plans. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 3. Annex 4 to art. 26, para. Art. 5 and art. 27, para. 6 The resolution authority shall consider in assessing the possibility of restructuring an institution or group. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u83	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for Annexes 1 to 4 including, in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The texts of the importer for Annexes 1 to 4 including the Commission report adopted and thus the Law at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR LOADING THE LOADS IN THE BANKS. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 18 December 2014, adopted at first vote on 19 February 2015. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, we will be introduced by its Vice-President, National Representative Diana Yordanova. You have the floor, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u84	The Bank's Deposit Guarantee Facility. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Chapter 1 "Instruction and scope of the law." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. Chapter 2. "Fund for guaranteeing deposits in banks........................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Section I "Statute of the Fund". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Article 2. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The Fund shall be a legal entity with its registered office in Sofia. (2) The Fund shall be converted, terminated and liquidated by law. (3) The Court of Auditors shall exercise control over the activities of the Fund. (4) The Fund shall be exempt from the payment of state and local taxes and charges only on deposit guarantee operations and on the financing of restructuring actions under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. (5) In the event of liquidation of the fund after the payment of its liabilities, the remainder of its property shall be distributed among the banks in proportion to the contributions paid by them, with the exception of those banks whose liabilities to the depositors have been paid by the fund. (6) The financing of the maintenance costs of the fund shall be determined by a decree of the Bulgarian National Bank on a proposal of the Management Board of the Fund. Section II The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Article 3. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 3: Art. 3. (1) The purpose of the fund shall be to contribute to the stability and trust in the financial system of the Republic of Bulgaria by: 1. ensure the protection of deposits and the payment of guaranteed deposits; 2. assist in the effective conduct of the restructuring process of credit institutions under the terms and conditions of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms; 3. ensure optimal protection of the interests of creditors in the process of bank bankruptcy. (2) The Fund shall: 1. determine and collect annual and extraordinary premium contributions from the banks; 2. invest your funds under the terms and conditions of art. 23; 3. pay the guaranteed amounts of deposits; 4. perform the functions and powers provided for in the Bankruptcy Act; 5. participate in the financing of the restructuring of credit institutions by taking over losses instead of the guaranteed depositors in the restructuring process, under the terms and conditions of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Section III "Management of the Fund. Representation The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Article 4. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under point H and does not support it under point H. One and two, so I'm just going to read you a t. 1 and 2: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 2, p. 4 the words "two members' shall be replaced by "one member'; 2. in para. 2 is created a new t. 5. It's five o'clock. one member from the National Assembly. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 4. Art. 4. (1) The Fund shall be managed by a Management Board. (2) The Management Board shall be composed of 5 members, including a Chair and a Vice-President, who shall be designated as follows: 1. the President of the Council of Ministers; 2. Vice-President of the Board of the Bulgarian National Bank; 3. one member from the word organization of the banks; in the case of more than one word organization, the board of directors of the Bulgarian National Bank shall determine a procedure for nomination and election of a member of the word organizations of the banks; 4. two members, jointly by the President and Vice-President of the Management Board of the Fund. (3) The members of the Management Board shall have a higher economic or legal education with an educational qualification of a Master and professional experience of not less than 5 years in the fields of banking, securities trading, accounting or finance. (4) The term of office of the Management Board shall be 4 years. The members of the Management Board may be re-elected without restriction. The members of the Board of Governors with an expired term of office shall continue to exercise their powers until the appointment of new members. (5) The Governing Council shall meet at least once every three months. Meetings shall be regular if at least three of its members are present. Minutes shall be kept for each meeting to be signed by all members present. (6) The decisions of the Management Board shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of all its members, and the decisions under art. 7, p. 5 and 12 shall be adopted by a majority of 4 votes. (7) The Governing Council shall adopt rules on the organisation and operation of the Fund, which shall include internal management rules, organisational structure and procedures for determining, managing, monitoring and reporting the risks to which the activities of the Fund may be exposed. (8) The Chairman of the Management Board shall organise and manage the activities of the Fund and represent the Fund in the country and abroad, taking all decisions relating to the management of the Fund, with the exception of the decisions under art. 7. The President may empower other persons with individual powers. (9) The Chairperson of the Management Board shall appoint and dismiss the administrative staff of the Fund. The organisation of the activities of the administration of the Fund and the total number of staff shall be determined by the rules under para. 7. (10) The Governing Council shall enter into a contract on behalf of the Fund with the Chair of the Management Board, which shall determine its remuneration and specify its rights and obligations in connection with the exercise of its powers under para. Eight and nine. (11) In the absence of the Chair, its functions shall be exercised by the Vice-President or by another member appointed by the Management Board of the Fund. (12) The Governing Council may attract individual specialists and set up committees to assist in the implementation of its powers. (13) The Fund, its bodies, their persons and its staff shall not be liable for any damage caused by the exercise of their powers unless they have acted intentionally.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u85	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov in the part which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: 17 against 33, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the name of the Law, Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Section I, Section II and Section III, as well as Article 2. From 1 to 4 including according to the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 3. The name of the Law, chapters one and two, Sections I, II and III of Chapter Two, as well as Art. 1 to 4 according to the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u86	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 5. Art. 5. (1) No member of the management board of the fund shall be a person who: 1. in the last two years prior to the date of the bankruptcy decision was a member of an executive or control body or an unlimited responsible partner in a company which was terminated due to insolvency and remained dissatisfied creditors; 2. in the last 5 years preceding the date of the decision to declare a bank in bankruptcy, has been a member of its management or control body; 3. is a spouse or is in actual cohabitation, or is a relative by rights or by line to the second degree including another member of the management board of the fund; 4. has been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 5. in the last two years it has been deprived in the order in which it is entitled to hold a particular position or to pursue a particular profession. (2) The Chairman of the Management Board shall not carry out any other paid activity other than research and teaching. (3) The members of the Management Board may not work for banks and financial institutions within the meaning of art. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act. Under art. 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 6: Art. 6. (1) The powers of a member of the Management Board shall be terminated early: 1. at his request; 2. in case of incompatibility under art. 5; 3. in the event of actual inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 4. when he has committed a material breach of his duties; 5. when by its activity it damages the interests of the fund; 6. where he does not participate without good reason in three consecutive meetings of the Management Board; 7. when it is violated art. 42, para. 1 of the Bankruptcy Act; 8. when an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest has entered into force; Nine on death. (2) The powers under para. 1 of a member of the Management Board shall be terminated by a decision of the relevant body referred to in Article 1. 4, para. 2. (3) Upon early termination of the powers of a member of the Management Board in its place, another person shall be appointed who shall start a new term of office. Under art. 7 has a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 7. Art. 7. The Management Board shall: 1. determine the annual and extraordinary premium contributions from the banks; 2. invest the funds of the fund in compliance with the security and permanent liquidity requirements and may enter into financial transactions in order to reduce risks or ensure liquidity; 2. organise the payment of the guaranteed amount of deposits under the terms and conditions of this Act; 3. adopt rules on the terms and conditions for the use of loans by the fund, including for issuance of debt securities; 4. organize the provision of funds to finance the restructuring under art. 134, para. Art. 5 and art. 144 of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms; 6. decide on the participation of the Fund in international organisations; 7. approve agreements for the cooperation of the Fund with state institutions and public organisations; 8. appoint a registered auditor to carry out an independent financial audit of the Fund's annual financial statement; 9. make decisions to receive donations and benefits from local and foreign persons; 10. Adopt rules on the procedure for carrying out internal control of the activities of the fund; 11. examine and resolve all issues of his competence relating to the powers of the Fund under the Bankruptcy Act; 12. examine and resolve all issues of his competence under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms; 13. adopt an annual report on the activities of the Fund and present it to the Council of Ministers, the Bulgarian National Bank and the Court of Auditors; 14. an annual acceptance and promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union by 31 March a report on the outcome of the activities of the Fund and a statement on the financial situation for the previous year; 15. adopt an annual budget for the administrative costs of the Fund and a report on its implementation and submit them to the Bulgarian National Bank and the Court of Auditors within 30 days of their adoption; 16. develop draft regulations provided for in this Law and present them to the Bulgarian National Bank for discussion and adoption; 17. decide to grant loans to other deposit guarantee schemes within the European Union under the conditions of art. 24; 18. determine the amount and order for the collection of an annual fee by the banks to cover the administrative costs of the fund; the amount of the annual fee by the banks shall be determined on the basis of the necessary material and technical and administrative costs of the fund provided for in the annual budget of the fund; 19. issue instructions on the content and format in which banks provide information to the fund for the purpose of paying off guaranteed deposits and testing the deposit guarantee system; 20. examines and resolves other issues related to the activities of the fund. ? Chapter 3?? Guaranteed claims??? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Section I - Amount and scope of the guarantee. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 9. Art. 9. (1) The Fund shall ensure full payment of the deposits of one person in one bank regardless of their number and amount up to BGN 196 000. (2) The provision of para. 1 shall not apply to persons who have acquired the rights of deposit as a result of the acts of an usher in the period of validity of the measures under art. 116, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 of the Credit Institutions Act and after the date of issue of an act under art. 20, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The following deposits are guaranteed up to 250 000 BGN. for a period of three months from the moment the amount is credited to the depositor's account or from the moment the depositor has acquired the right to dispose of the amount of the deposit: 1. deposits of natural persons arising from real estate transactions for residential purposes; 2. deposits of natural persons which arise as a result of amounts paid on the occasion of marriage, termination of employment or employment, invalidity or death; 3. deposits arising from insurance or insurance payments or the payment of compensation for damages from crimes or from a suspended sentence. (2) The deposits under para. 1 do not participate in the calculation of the total amount of the bank's obligation to one depositor under art. 12 within the term under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. "Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 11. Art. 11. (1) The guaranteed amount of deposits in the bank shall not be paid to: 1. other banks where they are made on their behalf and at their expense; 2. Financial institutions under art. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act; 3. Insurance and re-insurer under art. 8 of the Insurance Code; 4. pension insurance companies and compulsory and voluntary pension funds; 5. investment firms; 6. collective investment schemes, national investment funds, alternative investment funds and special investment firms; 7. budgetary organisations under § 1, p. 5 of the additional provisions of the Public Finance Act; 8. The Investor Compensation Fund, the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Banks and the Guarantee Fund under art. 287 of the Insurance Code. (2) No guarantee shall be provided on deposits arising from or related to transactions or actions representing money laundering within the meaning of art. 2 of the Law on measures against money laundering or terrorist financing within the meaning of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism established by an effective sentence. (3) No deposits shall be paid whose holder has not been identified under art. 3 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering at the date of issue of an act under art. 20, para. 1. (4) The circumstances governing the exceptions under para. 1 and 2 shall be established at the date of issue of an act referred to in Article 2. 20, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. "Department III." Calculation of the guaranteed amount of the deposit. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The total amount of the bank's obligation to one depositor shall be determined by its deposits, including interest accrued on them, until the date of issue of an act under art. 20, para. One, they're gathering. When collecting deposits in foreign currency participate with their remaining equivalent, determined according to the course of the Bulgarian National Bank at the date of issue of an act under art. 20, para. 1. (2) In case of joint deposit, the part of each person shall be taken into account when establishing the total amount of its deposits in the bank. If the deposit contract does not specify otherwise, the parts of the depositors shall be assumed to be equal. (3) In cases where the depositor is not exclusively entitled to the amounts of the account, the right to receive payment from the fund shall have the person for whose benefit the deposit is made, unless the contract provides otherwise and provided that that person is identified or can be identified before the date of issue of an act under art. 20, para. 1. In the event that the deposit is made in favour of more persons, the rules for the joint deposit shall apply. (4) In the event of conversion of two or more banks by merger or infusion, deposits in those banks prior to conversion shall be calculated for the purpose of the guarantee for each bank separately until the end of the 6-month period under art. 263k, para. 1 of the Commercial Law. (5) A deposit on which there are burdens imposed or which serve as collateral shall be included in the collection under para. 1 and the corresponding part of the guarantee that passes into the deposit shall not be paid to the depositor until the burden or guarantee has been lifted. If the deposit referred to in the sentence first has an act of a judicial authority entered into force, the Fund shall pay the security due for the deposit to the person referred to in the act as entitled to receive the amount of the deposit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the importer of Chapter Three, Section I, Section II, Section III, and Articles 5 to 12 inclusive, on the Commission report. Please vote. 86 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 6. The name of Chapter Three, Section I, Section II, Section III, and Articles 5 to 12 including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u88	The Fund's contribution to the fourth level of funding of the Fund shall be calculated on the basis of the following The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. Section I. Sources of fundraising. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. Under art. 14 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 14: Art. 14. (1) By 1 May of the current year, the fund shall determine the annual premium contribution for each bank, taking into account its risk profile and the amount of guaranteed deposits in the bank for the previous year, calculated as an average of the amount of guaranteed deposits at the end of each quarter. (2) All deposits up to the amount of the guarantee under art. 9, para. 1 except for deposits under art. 11, para. 1 and 2. (3) When determining the guaranteed deposits for the purposes of para. 1 deposits in foreign currency of banks are revalued in levs according to the course of the Bulgarian National Bank for the respective day. (4) The way to calculate the amount of the contributions under para. 1 is determined by a regulation of the Bulgarian National Bank on a proposal from the Management Board of the Fund. (5) Banks, including branches of foreign banks, shall transfer the annual premium contribution by 31 May of the current year. (6) The annual contributions of banks shall be reported as accounting expenses for the current year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. Under art. 17 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Where the funds available in the fund exceed one hundred of the total amount of guaranteed deposits in banks, the Management Board may decide that the annual premium contributions shall be paid in reduced amounts or shall not be paid for a specified period. (2) The payment of annual premium contributions shall be resumed when the funds in the fund fall below the ones referred to in para. 1 size. (3) The order and the method for calculating the annual premium contributions to a reduced amount shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 14, para. 4. (4) When funds are used by the fund under art. 144, para. 1 of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, the payment of contributions under para. 2 is defined as the one referred to in para. 1 size to be reached over a period of up to 6 years. Section II - Covering the fund needs of the Fund. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Under art. 18 has a proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 18: Art. 18. (1) If the funds available in the fund are not sufficient to cover its obligations under art. 20, where deposits have become non-available, banks shall, by decision of the Fund's Management Board, transfer extraordinary premium contributions up to 0,5 percent of the guaranteed deposits for one calendar year calculated on the last quarter preceding the date of transfer of the contributions. The Fund with the explicit consent of the Bulgarian National Bank may also require greater contributions in exceptional circumstances. (2) To cover the residual deficit of the fund by decision of the Management Board, the Fund may benefit from loans: 1. including by issuing debt securities under conditions and by order defined by the management board of the fund; 2. from the state budget after a decision of the Council of Ministers. (3) The loans used by the Fund may be secured by a guarantee issued by the Council of Ministers on behalf of the State or by assets of the Fund, including future claims of the Fund. (4) In cases where a bank has liquidity difficulties, the Bulgarian National Bank may postpone the payment of all or part of the contributions under para. 1 for a period of not more than 6 months. The delay in the payment of the contributions under para. 1 may be renewed at the request of the bank. (5) The contributions under para. 1 whose payment is postponed shall be paid when the Bulgarian National Bank finds that their payment does not jeopardise the liquidity and solvency of the bank. (6) The contributions under para. 1: 1. shall not be deducted from the contributions referred to in Article 1. 14, para. 1; 2. shall be calculated according to the order of the ordinance under art. 14, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u89	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 4, Section I and Section II, as well as Articles 13 to 18 inclusive, on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The names of Chapter 4, Section I and Section II and Articles 13 to 18 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u90	The Fund's funds are being used. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Under art. 19 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 19: Art. 19. (1) The funds of the fund shall be used to pay deposits up to the amounts guaranteed in the cases provided for in this law. (2) The funds from the fund shall also be used to finance restructuring actions under the terms and conditions of art. 144 of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Section II - Conditions and arrangements for the payment of amounts under the guaranteed exposures. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 20 has a proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The Fund shall pay liabilities of the relevant bank to its depositors up to the guaranteed amounts if there is: 1. decision of the Bulgarian National Bank for withdrawal of the license for banking activity; 2. a decision of the Bulgarian National Bank to establish that the deposits are not available and that, at its discretion at this time, the bank seems unable to do so for reasons directly related to its financial situation, to repay the deposits and that it will not be able to do so in the short term; the decision shall be taken no later than 5 working days from the knowledge that the bank has not paid deposits due and due, or 3. an act of a judicial authority which, for reasons directly related to the financial situation of the bank, prevents the claims of the depositors against the bank from being brought. (2) The Fund shall pay the guaranteed amount of deposits through one or more banks designated by the Management Board. (3) Within two working days of the date of issue of an act under para. 1 the appointed Quaestor, temporary or extraordinary manager, liquidator, temporary trade union or trade union shall be obliged to provide the fund with information on deposits in the bank. (4) Within two working days of the beginning of the payment of the fund, the fund's management board shall be obliged to disclose on at least two central daily newspapers and on its website the day from which the depositors of the bank may receive payments from the fund, as well as the bank or banks through which these payments will be made. The correspondence between the fund and the depositors is held in Bulgarian. (5) The Fund shall ensure that the depositors of the bank have access to the amounts to be paid for the guaranteed deposits no later than 7 working days from the date of issue of an act under para. 1. (6) The payment period may be extended where: 1. is the hypothesis of Art. 1. 12, para. 3, but not more than three months from the date of issue of an act under para. 1; 2. it is not established whether a person is legally entitled to receive the guaranteed amount of the deposit or where the deposit is subject to a legal dispute; in such cases the deposit shall be paid within 7 working days of the date of notification to the Fund for the settlement of the dispute or the establishment of the legal right; 3. the deposit shall be subject to restrictive measures imposed by the government or international organisations; in such cases the deposit shall be paid within 7 working days of the date of notification of the Fund of termination of the restrictive measures; 4. the amount to be paid is part of a temporary high balance of the account under the terms of art. 10, but not more than three months from the date of issue of an act under para. 1; 5. The Fund shall pay the guaranteed deposits of a branch of a Bulgarian bank in another Member State, but not more than 20 working days from the date of issue of an act under para. 1. (7) Regardless of the term under para. 5 where a depositor or other person who has rights to or interests in relation to the amounts of an account is attracted as an accused person for an act arising from or related to money laundering within the meaning of art. 2 of the Law on measures against money laundering or terrorist financing within the meaning of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, the Fund may suspend any payments affecting the depositor/person until the entry into force of a judicial act. (8) No amounts shall be paid on accounts where there have been no transactions by order of the depositor in the last 24 months prior to the date of issue of an act under art. 20, para. 1 and the balance of each of them is less than BGN 20. (9) The amount of the amounts paid shall reduce the amount of the liabilities of the relevant bank to the depositors. (10) The fund shall periodically notify the quastre, the temporary or extraordinary manager, the liquidator, the temporary trade union or the trade union of the amounts paid to each depositor. (11) For their claims over the deposits received from the fund shall be satisfied by the assets of the bank in accordance with the legislation in force. (12) The Bulgarian National Bank shall issue a regulation for the implementation of this article on a proposal from the Management Board of the Fund. Under art. 21 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 21: Art. 21. (1) Person claiming to be a depositor but denied payment of the amounts of the deposit in the amount of art. 9 and 10 within the time limits laid down in art. 20, para. 5 or 6, or which is not in accordance with the amount of the amount paid, may bring its written objections within three months of the initial day of the repayment of the guaranteed deposits to the Quastre, the temporary or exceptional manager, the liquidator, the temporary trade union or the bank's trade union. (2) The Quaestor, the temporary or extraordinary governor, the liquidator, the temporary trade union or the trade union shall rule on the objections under para. 1 within 7 days of receipt. In case the objection under para. 1 is not respected, the person may claim his or her rights under the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22. "Department III" "Prevention and assistance services." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name "Section III" should be rejected. Under art. 23 A proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova according to the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's text and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u91	Statements? There are no speeches. I put the name of Chapter Five to Sections I and II, Articles 19 to 22, on the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The name of Chapter Five, Sections I and II, and Articles 19 to 22 of the Commission report have been adopted. We are now voting on the Commission proposal to reject the name of Section III and Article 3. 23. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 72 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 1. The name of Section III and art. 23 were rejected on a proposal from the Commission. Welcome to the procedure Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the deadline for proposals between the two readings under Law No 554-01-20 of 4 February 2015, adopted on the first reading of the 24th of this month, be extended by seven days. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u93	Who's the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u94	Now I will tell you this is the deadline for proposals for amendments to the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u95	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Julian Angelov. Vote 78 MPs: 73 against 1, abstention 4. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. Mrs. Yordanova, report Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u96	"Chapter 6" - Investing the fund of the fund. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 24, which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. The funds of the fund shall be invested in: 1. deposits to the Bulgarian National Bank; 2. Highly liquid debt securities: (a) issued or guaranteed by the Bulgarian State; (b) issued by other Member States that have a credit rating of one of the two highest ratings issued by two credit rating agencies registered or certified under Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies (OB, L 302/1 of 17 November 2009).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009'; (c) issued by third countries that have a credit rating of one of the two highest ratings issued by two credit rating agencies registered or certified under Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009; (d) issued by the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or other foreign financial institutions or international financial organisations, including supranational organisations of the Member States whose liabilities are assessed by one of the two highest estimates issued by two credit rating agencies registered or certified under Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009. screeding with European Union debt guarantee schemes. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Section I - Loaning of funds between schemes for guaranteeing the claims. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25, which becomes art. 24. Section II - Payment of the guaranteed amounts of deposits in branches of banks from other Member States. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26, which becomes Art. 25. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 27, which becomes art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Fund shall pay the guaranteed amount of deposits of investors in branches of Bulgarian banks in other Member States through the deposit guarantee scheme of the host Member State. (2) The amounts shall be paid to the deposit guarantees scheme depositors of the host Member State in accordance with the instructions under art. 7, p. 19. (3) For the purposes of para. 1 banks maintain and provide the fund with information about the guaranteed deposits in the branches of Bulgarian banks in other Member States. Banks shall provide information to the fund in a range and format in accordance with the instructions under art. 7, p. 19............................................................................................ "Department III"....................................................................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version for the name of Section III: Transfer to another deposit guarantee scheme in another Member State. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28, which becomes art. 27. "Department IV" "Communication and exchange of information". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 29, which becomes art. 28: Art. 28. (1) For the purposes of art. 24, 25 and 26 the Fund shall conclude cooperation agreements, exchange the information received under art. 30, para. 2, 3 and 5, and cooperate with deposit guarantee schemes in other Member States. The Fund shall inform the European Banking Authority of the agreements concluded. Where an agreement is not reached with a deposit guarantee scheme in another Member State or a dispute over the interpretation of the agreements, the Fund may refer the matter to the European Banking Authority. (2) The absence of an agreement under para. 1 shall be without prejudice to the rights of depositors in branches in the Republic of Bulgaria of banks of other Member States and of branches of Bulgarian banks in other Member States for their claims from the deposit guarantee scheme of the home Member State, as well as the interests of banks in cases under art. 21. (3) In relation to the exchange of information about the depositors in branches of Bulgarian banks in other Member States and branches of banks from other Member States in the Republic of Bulgaria, the confidentiality and data protection requirements for the accounts of depositors under the Personal Data Protection Act shall apply. "Chapter 8" - Testing of the system for guaranteeing claims. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, which becomes art. 29. "Chapter 9.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. Article 31 "Project of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in accordance with Article 31 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union" 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 30: Art. 30. (1) Banks shall provide the fund with the necessary information to calculate the premium contributions due to the fund. (2) Banks shall provide the fund with the necessary information for the purpose of regular testing of the deposit guarantee system or in order to prepare the payment of the guaranteed deposits at any time and at the request of the fund in the form and format specified in the instructions under art. 7, p. 19. (3) The Fund shall have the right to request at any time from the bank information about the eligible deposits of each depositor and their marking according to art. 57, para. 3 of the Credit Institutions Act. (4) The Bulgarian National Bank shall immediately inform the Fund if problems are detected in a given bank which are likely to trigger the deposit guarantee system, as well as the supervisory measures applied to the banks under art. 103, para. 2, p. 4-9, 13-15, 17-21, 23 and 24 of the Credit Institutions Act, providing the Fund with a copy of the measure. (5) The Bulgarian National Bank shall immediately inform the Fund if the conditions under art. 36, para. 1 and 2 of the Credit Institutions Act. (6) At the request of the fund, the head of the management of the Bank supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank shall carry out targeted checks on banks and present the results of them to the Fund. (7) The Governing Council may publish information on the activities of the fund which does not contain data representing bank or commercial secrecy. (8) In the cases under para. 6 restrictions under art. 62 and 63 of the Credit Institutions Act on access to banking and professional secrecy shall not apply. (9) The information which the fund acquires or creates in carrying out its functions under this law and whose disclosure would damage the commercial interest or prestige of a bank, its shareholders or customers is a professional secret. Professional secrecy does not constitute professional secrecy within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act. (10) It is not professional secrecy that information is subject to publication or disclosure under law. (11) Members of the Management Board, employees, external auditors, experts and other persons working for the Fund shall be obliged to keep professional secrecy, including after their relationship with the Fund has ceased. (12) The persons referred to in para. 11 may use information representing professional secrecy only for the purposes and in the performance of their duties. Such information shall not be disclosed or made available to any person or body other than those referred to in para. 14 cases. (13) The limitations of para. 12 shall not apply if the information is provided in aggregate form so that the bank or the persons to which it relates cannot be identified. The information received from a bank or another debtor under this law may be provided to them without limitation. (14) The persons referred to in para. 11 may provide information representing professional secrecy to the following bodies and organisations in relation to the performance of their functions or duties: 1. the court: (a) in the cases of criminal proceedings initiated; (b) in relation to a case concerning acts carried out under this law and/or under the Bankruptcy Act; 2. other bodies, where expressly provided for in a special law; 3. the deposit guarantee scheme in the home Member State for the purposes of art. 25, para. 1. (15) Every year by 1 March at the latest, the management board of the Fund shall inform the European Banking Authority of the total amount of guaranteed deposits in the country and of the amount of funds available in the Fund by 31 December of the previous year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32, which becomes Art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33, which becomes Art. 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34, which becomes art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u97	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Chapter Six, Chapter Seven, Sections I, II, III and IV, Chapter Eight and Chapter Ninth, as well as the members of 24 by importer, which in the report of the Commission shall be number 23, to art. 34 by importer, which in the Commission's report is art. 33. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 6a, Chapter 7, Sections I, II, III and IV, Chapter 8 and Chapter 9 and Articles 23 to 33 of the Commission report are adopted unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because we are currently considering and voting on this. 11 The second vote of the Bill on Guarantee of Deposits in Banks, and we are about to end this item, etc. 12 The first vote on the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among senior public officials has already been voted on as a point. 1 for tomorrow, I suggest that you put to the vote the procedure for extending working hours until the end of the vote and the adoption of the bill under point 1. 13 The second vote of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection. This bill is extremely important to be adopted because sanctions against our country have been pending since September. I therefore ask that we vote on extending working time until the adoption of this item. 13, which is next after t. 11, which will be over in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u99	A reverse opinion? Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a reverse vote because Mrs. Menda Stoyanova didn't bring candy in the back, just in the front. [[Laughter and cheering in the hall.]] Go around back and leave some candy. And now it's serious. Colleagues, yesterday we passed laws at a very high pace, and then it turned out that the laws were in effect from November. We passed laws the other day. Turns out they've been operating since December. Why do we have to stay until 11:00 every night?! If it's too much of a rush, let's stop this point and start with this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u101	That's your argument?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u102	Yeah, that's the argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u103	We are voting on the procedure proposed by the MP Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u104	We'll have it done in 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u105	Vote 87 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u106	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. By § 1, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u107	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u108	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in the balance sheet. (a) its existence can only be demonstrated by a financial instrument within the meaning of art. 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, unless it is a savings product certified by a deposit certificate issued to a designated person and existing on 2 July 2014; (b) its head office shall not be payable at nominal value; (c) its head office shall be payable at nominal value only by virtue of a special guarantee by or by an agreement with the credit institution or third party; d) is not equity within the meaning of the definition in art. 4 (1) (b) 118 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OB, L 176/1 of 27 June 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013" or debt securities issued by a bank and liabilities arising from the recording of an order or as a result of the written consent of a payer bank to accept the order of the billing issuer. 2. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in the balance sheet. 3. In the case of an account opened in the name of two or more persons or on an account over which two or more persons have rights exercised by the signature of one or more of those persons. 4. Cash, deposits and low-risk assets that can be censored within a period not exceeding the term of art. 20, para. 5. 5. For the purposes of this Article, the amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in column 060 of the CR SEC SA template. 11, para. 1 and 2. 6. In the case of a joint deposit, each of the deposit holders shall be the holder or, in the case of a joint deposit. 7. "Member State' is a Member State of the European Union or another State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. 8. The third Member State is a Member State which is not a Member State within the meaning of this Article. 7. 9. In the case of non-performing exposures, the amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in column 010 of the CR SA template. 336 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or other assets for which the Bulgarian National Bank or the Fund considers to be equally secure and liquid. 10. The risk-weighted exposure amount of assets that are exposures to non-financial corporations that fall under (a) statutory deposit guarantee schemes; (b) deposit guarantee schemes which are officially recognised as deposit guarantee schemes; (c) Interinstitutional protection schemes which are officially recognised as deposit guarantee schemes. 11. "Member State of origin" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 43 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 12. "Accepting Member State" is a concept within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 44 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 13. It is a concept within the meaning of § 1, para. 1, t. 22 of the Additional Provisions of the Credit Institutions Act. By § 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 3, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 3, whose systematic place is as § 4: ............................................ The Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund is the successor of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund established by the repealed Bank Deposit Guarantee Act. Under Paragraph 4, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, whose systematic place is as § 3: .................................................. This law repeals the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. The provisions of the repealed Bank Deposit Guarantee Act shall apply to the procedures for the repayment of the guaranteed deposits initiated prior to the entry into force of this Act. Under § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in accordance with Article 5. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... The law on credit institutions (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1.In Art. 1. 36: (a) in para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." The Bulgarian National Bank has decided to establish that deposits in the bank are not available on the basis of art. 20, para. 1. 2 of the Banking Deposit Guarantee Act. b)Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Bulgarian National Bank shall necessarily withdraw the license issued to a bank due to insolvency where its own capital is negative and the conditions for restructuring under art. 51, para. 1 of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. (c) in para. 7 after the word "license" is added by para. 1.................................................................................. 2.In art. 37, para. The second sentence shall be created: the request shall be lodged no later than two working days after the withdrawal of the licence. 3.In art. 56: (a) the creation of para. 5. The inclusion and exclusion from the information system shall be carried out by an act of the body responsible for the management of the bank service. 4.In art. 57: (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Bank shall necessarily specify under the conditions under para. 2 and in the contract whether or not the deposit is guaranteed under the terms and conditions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks, the amount of the guarantee and the applicable deposit guarantee system. The information bulletin referred to in the Annex shall be made available to the depositors prior to the conclusion of the contract and at least once a year after the conclusion of the contract in the language and in the manner chosen by mutual agreement between the depositor and the bank at the opening of the account. Banks shall necessarily mark deposits in a manner and in a order determined by the BNB that allows immediate identification of eligible deposits within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in the Banks. (b) the creation of para. 6: The Bulgarian National Bank shall notify the depositors of the transformation of a bank by merger or infusion to another bank at least one month before the relevant action produces legal consequences by announcing the website of BNB. Within three months of notification, the depositors may withdraw or transfer to another bank their eligible deposits within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the additional provisions of the Deposit Guarantee Act in the banks together with the accrued interest above the amount of the guarantee, without due penalties or fees for early termination of the deposit contract. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 the words "not a user' are deleted; (b) the creation of para. 5. This Article shall apply to loans that are not consumer loans. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Bank's employees, members of the bank's management and control bodies, BNB officials, employees and members of the Board of Directors of the Bank's Deposit Guarantee Fund, Liquidators, Temporary Syndicates and Syndicates, as well as all other persons working for the bank, shall not disclose, nor shall they use, for personal or for members of their families, any information constituting a bank secret. (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In addition to BNB and for the purposes and under the conditions of art. 56 the banks may provide information under para. 2 for individual customers only: 1. with their consent; 2. by decision of the court, taken by order of para. 6 and 7; 3. by order of the court, where necessary to clarify the circumstances of the case in question; or 4. in the cases under para. 12 in the case of a bank in insolvency proceedings. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1 sentence first, the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 2 point (b) shall be added after the word (s) of the court (s) or arbitration (s); (b) paragraph 1 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." the financial supervisory authorities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund and the State Agency's National Security (National Security Agency) in cases and in order defined in the Bank Deposit Guarantee Act or by joint instructions or agreements; (c) in para. A sentence 2 is created second: This information can only be provided when necessary for the purposes of the supervision, prevention and restructuring of credit institutions. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." detailed documentation of the financial contracts within the meaning of § 1, point 83 of the additional provisions of the ZACKIIP to which the bank is a party; b) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 10. Article 73d is repealed. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." the non-payment of a premium contribution to the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks or other actions threatening the interests of the depositors; (bb) The creation of a t. 18: 18. failure to plan changes in the activity within the period defined by the BNB or at the discretion of the BNB, the changes proposed by the Bank are not appropriate for the removal of weaknesses and obstacles in relation to the preparation and adoption of recovery plans under Chapter Two, Section I of the HARKIIP. (b) in para. 2: (aa) point 21 is repealed; (bb) c. 23 shall be added at the end in cases where there are no conditions for the appointment of a temporary manager under art. 46 of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of (c) c. 24 words are deleted in case of risk of securitisation. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103a, para. 2, p. 1 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105, para. A sentence 2 first after the word supposed to be added at the discretion of the BNB to possess the qualifications, abilities and knowledge necessary for the performance of the functions and tasks assigned, and to be added after the words....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 11, para. The following shall be added: 1 et c. Three-niner. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Bulgarian National Bank may place a bank under special supervision under the following conditions: 1. The bank has not paid deposits that are due and due and the BNB has initiated a procedure to pronounce under art. 20, para. 1, t. 2 of the Banking Deposit Guarantee Act, and 2. the bank does not meet the conditions for restructuring under ZACKIIP. (b) paragraph 2 is repealed; (c) in para. the first sentence is replaced by the following: (d) the creation of para. 4. In the case of art. 107, 109, 110 and art. 115-121, the provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities do not apply to a public company bank. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The measure referred to in paragraph 3 shall be implemented in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1. 2, p. 2 shall not provide for a full limitation of the access of the depositors to the deposits for a period longer than 5 working days. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 118. One, two and three 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 121 the word "one month' is replaced by "10 days'. 18. Section IX of Chapter 11 by Article 121a is repealed. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 para. 3 is amended as If the proposal under para. 1 is justified, the Governing Council of BNB on a proposal of the sub-manager, head of the Board of Banks' supervision and within 5 working days of the proposal under para. 1 takes a decision establishing that the bank is in a state of insolvency and making a request to the competent court for the opening of insolvency proceedings. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127, para. 5 is added as well as its temporary or exceptional agents. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130 para. 3 is amended as If the proposal under para. 1 is justified, the board of directors of BNB on a proposal from the head of the management of the Bank's supervision, takes a decision establishing that the bank is in a state of insolvency and requesting the competent court for the opening of insolvency proceedings. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) the words "and other similar measures' shall be deleted; (bb) the second sentence shall be created: the rescue measures shall include the implementation of the resolution and exercise of the resolution powers under the Board or under the relevant legislation of another Member State. (b) the creation of para. 4. The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1. 1 are the measures implemented by the BNB and by the competent authorities of another Member State as supervisory authorities and resolution authorities. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) c. 1 words or other instruments shall be replaced by instruments within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 50 point (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; (b) c. 2 shall be added at the end, subject to the provisions of art. 100 and 103 of the Board of Directors or relevant provisions of the legislation of a Member State and of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors; (c) c. 3 is finally a comma and is added in compliance with the provisions of art. 100 and 103 of the Board of Directors or relevant provisions of the legislation of a Member State. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148 words or other instruments shall be replaced by tools within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 50 point (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted In the legal proceedings under para. 3 where it is necessary to carry out judicial or judicial economic expertise, the court shall appoint experts on a list established by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Bulgarian National Bank shall provide the President of the Supreme Administrative Court with information on specialized audit firms which have checked the annual financial statements of a bank or branch of a third-country bank under art. 76 and 78 in the last five years. Those undertakings shall provide the President of the Supreme Administrative Court with a list of at least two graduate accountants who have participated in those activities. The President of the Supreme Administrative Court shall establish a list of property persons which shall be updated at least every five years. 26. In § 2 of the Additional Provisions para. Two is canceled. 27. An annex to art. is created. 57, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova The proposal has been passed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The regulation under art. 14, para. 4 shall be adopted by 31 December 2015 and shall be adopted by 31 December 2015. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer as paragraph 3 shall be reflected in its systematic place as a new § 5. The Commission proposes the following version for § 9, which becomes § 10: ..................................................... (1) The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. (2) The requirement to determine premium contributions in proportion to the level of risk according to art. 14, para. 1 s 4 shall apply from 1 January 2016. Until 31 December 2015, the provision of art. 4 shall apply. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 of the repealed Bank Deposit Guarantee Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u109	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of the Member State of the European Union, the name of the Member State of origin and the final provisions, as well as paragraphs 1 to 10 in accordance with the Commission report, and shall also be annexed to § 6 in the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The name of the "Additional provisions" and of the "Transitional and final provisions" and paragraphs 1 to 10 of the report with an annex to § 6 have been unanimously adopted. That's what the law has been passed with. It's 1:40. I'm calling a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u110	We shall continue the sitting with: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2015, was adopted at the first vote on 9 April 2015. The floor has the chairman of the Committee on Environment and Water Stanislav Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, please vote on the procedure for admission to the hall of Mr. Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, Maria Galabova, Director of the Department of Prevention and Preventive Activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u112	Please vote on the proposed admission to the Chamber. Vote 72 MPs: 71 against 1, no abstentions. Invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Law on the Protection of the Environment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u114	Continue to § 7 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u115	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced Eight o'clock. carry out organisation and coordination activities pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 1293/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a Programme for the Environment and Climate Action (LIFE) (OB, L 347/185 of 20 December 2013.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The interested parties may appeal the opinion or decision under para. 1 in the order of the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its notification. 593 (4) The opinion or decision under para. 1 shall lose legal effect if, within 5 years of its entry into force, the relevant plan or programme, which shall be established by verification by the competent environmental authority, has not been approved. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is Art. 99b. (1) Approval of an investment proposal under this Chapter for the establishment of new and planned amendments or extensions in an existing establishment/a low or high risk facility shall be carried out on the basis of additional information and an assessment of: 1. the type and quantity of hazardous substances of Annex 3 to be present in the plant/ facility and the capacity of the facilities for their storage and use; 2. the risks of major accidents and planned measures and means of preventing, controlling and limiting the consequences of major accidents to human health and the environment; 3. the safe distances of the establishment/unity to residential areas, public areas, recreational and recreation areas, neighbouring enterprises and sites, areas and constructions which may be the source of or increase the risk or consequences of a major accident and cause the effect of dominoes, large transport routes and territories with particular environmental significance or environmental significance protected by a regulatory or administrative act. (2) The information and assessment under para. 1 shall be submitted by the contracting entity to the investment proposal as part of the required documentation as follows: 1. in the case of a procedure for assessing the need to carry out the EIA as an annex to the designated by the regulation under art. 101, para. 1 information; 2. in the case of EIA procedure as an annex to the EIA report under art. 96, para. 1. (3) Where the operator and the contracting entity are different persons, the information under para. 1 shall be drawn up and submitted by the contracting entity of the investment proposal. (4) The information and assessment under para. 1 shall be co-ordinated in a professional manner with the authorities referred to in Article 1. 114, para. 2 within the time limits laid down in the relevant EIA procedure. (5) Based on the information and assessment under para. 1 and received in the course of the relevant EIA procedure opinions, opinions and proposals in the decision under art. 93, para. 2 or 3, respectively, in the decision referred to in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 reasons for the approval of the location and the confirmation of safe distances shall be entered and conditions shall be placed on the facilities and technologies as well as on the safety report. In order to carry out ex post controls, the decision shall describe in detail the type and quantity of hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 as well as the activities and facilities in which those substances will be available. (6) The competent authority under art. 93, para. 2 or 3 shall issue a decision to carry out an EIA where, on the basis of the information and the assessment under para. 1 consider that due to the location of the plant/ facility there is a likelihood of a significant negative impact on the environment and/or human health. In the decision, the competent authority shall also include a requirement for the contracting authority to examine and examine alternative solutions in the EIA report, including. Different location of the plant/ facility, different scale or model of operation, alternative technologies and/or alternative solution for the type and quantities of hazardous substances used. (7) A decision for the non-approval of an investment proposal shall be issued where, on the basis of the information and the assessment under para. 1 in the EIA procedure, it was found that, due to the location of the undertaking/the facility, the investment proposal would have a significant negative impact on the environment and/or human health. (8) With the regulations referred to in art. 101, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 103, para. 9 The arrangements for the joint implementation of the procedures under this Chapter and Chapter 7, Section I, as well as the requirements for the format and content of the necessary information and documentation under para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u116	Do you have any comments? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as paragraphs 1 to 6 including the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The name of the Law as well as paragraphs 1 to 6 have been adopted. Paragraph 7, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u117	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Chapter 7, Section I, with art. 103 " 116i" is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u118	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 7 and the creation of a new § 7 with the corresponding content on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u119	Paragraph 8. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u120	The Commission proposes to create a new § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u121	The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... A new Section I with new Art. 7 shall be established in Chapter 7. 103 " 116h:
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u122	"Department I" Control of major accident hazards Art. 103. (1) In order to prevent major accidents with hazardous substances and to limit their consequences for the life and health of persons and for the environment, each operator of a new or existing establishment and/or facility in which hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 are present shall be obliged to carry out a classification of the establishment and/or facility in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 3 and to document the classification carried out. (2) In cases where the establishment and/or facility under para. 1 shall be classified as an undertaking and/or a facility with low risk potential or an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential, the operator shall be obliged to submit to the Minister of Environment and Water a notification of the classification carried out. (3) The notification of the classification carried out shall contain the following information: 1. the name and/or the trade name, the operator identification number and the full address of the undertaking and/or facility; 2. the operator's seat and full address; 3. the name and position of the person responsible for the enterprise, if different from that referred to in paragraph 3. 1; 4. hazardous substances and hazard categories of the relevant substances or substances likely to be present in the establishment and/or facility; 5. the quantity and physical form of hazardous substances and relevant substances in the plant and/or facility; 6. the activity or planned activity of the facilities, including storage facilities; 7. a description of the environment surrounding the establishment and/or facility and the factors that may cause a major accident or aggravate the consequences thereof, including, where available, information on neighbouring undertakings, as well as on sites, areas and constructions that do not fall within the scope of this section, but may be a source of or increase the risk or consequences of a major accident and the effect of the domino; 8. additional information on the undertaking/unit for the purposes of reporting under art. 111, para. 1, t. 4 defined by the decree under para. 9. (4) The operator of a new establishment and/or facility with low or high risk potential shall submit the notification of the classification carried out and any update thereof: 1. before submitting an application for coordination and approval of the investment project under the order of Chapter Eight, Section II of the Law on Construction in the Area or prior to amendments to the undertaking and/or facility which lead to a change in the list of hazardous substances; 2. for undertakings and/or facilities falling within the scope of Annex 1 or 2 to the relevant competent authority referred to in Section III of Chapter 6 at the same time as the information referred to in art. 95, para. 1 when the information under para. 3 is available at this stage. The notification shall be dealt with by the Minister of Environment and Water. (5) The operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with low or high risk potential shall submit to the Minister of Environment and Water a notification of the classification carried out and any update thereof: 1. prior to any modification leading to a change in the list of hazardous substances in Part 1 and/or 2 of Annex No 3 present in the establishment and/or facility; 2. prior to any significant increase or reduction in the quantity or significant change in the nature or physical form of a hazardous substance present in the establishment and/or facility as specified in the notification of the classification carried out or prior to any significant modification in the processes of its use; 3. before any modification of an undertaking and/or facility which could have significant consequences on the hazards of major accidents; 4. after the final closure or decommissioning of the plant (s); 5. after a change in the information submitted by the operator with the notification of the classification carried out on the name and/or commercial name of the operator and the full address of the undertaking and/or facility, the operator's seat or full address and/or the name and position of the person responsible for the undertaking and/or facility, if different from that of the operator. (6) The Minister of Environment and Water within 10 days of the notification of the classification carried out shall confirm the classification or inform the operator of the deficiencies identified in the content of the information under para. 3 and/or discrepancies in the classification carried out in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 3 by giving written instructions and setting a time limit for their removal. The Minister of Environment and Water shall inform the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency and the bodies referred to in Article in writing. 114, para. 2 concerning the classification of the undertaking/unit and sending a copy of the notification. (7) In the cases under para. 4 t. 2 The operator/entity shall be notified of the confirmation of the classification by the order of the ordinance under art. 101, para.1 on the basis of written confirmation by the Minister of Environment and Water. (8) This section shall not apply to: 1. undertakings and/or facilities, including storage facilities in which: (a) the functions of an operator shall be performed by the Ministry of Defence or any other legal person of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) activities with hazardous substances shall be carried out, services shall be provided and/or military production shall be produced for the purpose of the defence and security of the country for which authorisations have been granted under the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, and/or shall constitute special objects relating to the defence and security of the country within the meaning of § 5, p. 63 of the additional provisions of the Construction Act on the territory; 2. hazards created by ionizing radiation caused by substances; 3. transport of dangerous substances and directly related interim storage during transport by road, railway, inland waterways, sea or air outside the territory of the undertakings under para. 2, including loading, unloading and/or transport to or from another vehicle on docks, docks or distribution stations; 4. transport of hazardous substances by pipelines, including the relevant pumping/compressor stations outside the undertakings under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. operation, in particular exploration, extraction or processing of minerals in mines and quarries, including through drilling wells, with the exception of: (a) storage of gas in underground landfills on land in geological formations, water horizons, salt cavers and abandoned mines; (b) chemical and thermal processing and related storage operations involving hazardous substances; (c) active equipment for the disposal of mining waste, including waste storage facilities or storage lockers containing hazardous substances. 6. exploration and exploitation in marine areas of minerals, including hydrocarbons; 7. storage of gas in underground depots at sea, which includes depots exclusively for storage and landfills where the exploration and exploitation of minerals, including hydrocarbons, is also carried out; 8. landfills for waste, including underground waste storage, except: (a) chemical and thermal processing and related storage operations involving hazardous substances; (b) active equipment for the disposal of mining waste, including waste storage facilities or storage facilities containing hazardous substances; (c) sites used to store metal mercury in accordance with art. Point (b) of paragraph 1 of Regulation (EC) No 1102/2008. (9) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation to prevent major accidents with dangerous substances and to limit their consequences. Art. 104. (1) Measures to prevent major accidents and limit their consequences to human health and the environment shall be taken into account in: 1. spatial planning of the territory, and 2. planning the protection of the population and the environment. (2) In the planning of the territory, control shall be carried out on: 1. the location of new enterprises and/or facilities with low or high risk potential; 2. changes in undertakings and/or facilities with low or high risk potential; 3. the planning of new constructions, including the construction of transport roads, residential areas, public-use sites near existing establishments and/or facilities with low or high risk potential, where deployment or new constructions may be a source or increase the dangers or consequences of major accidents in those plants/ facilities. (3) The control under para. 2 is carried out in: 1. approval of investment proposals under the order of Chapter Six of this Law and/or authorisation of construction under the order of Chapter Eight, Section II of the Law on construction of the territory for cases under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. approval of safety reports in accordance with art. 109-115 for the construction and/or operation of new or modified establishments and/or facilities with high risk potential or parts thereof; 3. coordination of planning plans and their changes in planning of constructions in the cases under para. 2 of which: construction plans of municipalities and detailed construction plans for land properties, whose territory are situated enterprises and/or facilities with low or high risk potential under art. 127, para. 2 of the Law on Construction of the Area. (4) By the control of para. 2 shall be provided: 1. maintaining safe distances for enterprises and/or facilities with low or high risk potential to residential areas, public areas and areas, recreational areas and, where possible, major transport routes; 2. maintaining safe distances between undertakings and/or facilities with low or high risk potential or other appropriate measures to areas with particular conservation sensitivity or interest and cultural and historical heritage sites in the vicinity of undertakings, where appropriate in order to protect them; 3. taking additional technical measures to limit the risks to human health and the environment in the case of existing establishments and/or facilities with low or high risk potential. (5) For the purposes of para. 3 and 4 the operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential shall provide to the relevant competent authority under Chapter Eight, Section II of the Area Device Act complete information on risks to human health and the environment arising from the presence of hazardous substances under Annex 3 in that undertaking and/or facility and on measures to prevent major accidents with those substances and to mitigate their consequences. The operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with low risk potential shall provide that information upon request by the relevant competent authority. (6) In cases where the objects under para. 2 fall within the scope of Chapter Six, the information under para. 5 shall be made available at the earliest stage for the purposes of consultation with the affected public. (7) When issuing decisions approving safety reports under this section or decisions approving design plans under the Law on Construction in the Area, which provide for the construction and operation of undertakings and/or facilities with low or high risk potential or construction of constructions under para. 2, p. 3, the relevant competent authority shall take into account the opinions on identified risks of major accidents in the undertakings/ facilities obtained in the public access referred to in art. 115, para. 1 and 2 or in the case of consultations under art. 87, para. 2. Art. 105. (1) The operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with low risk potential and of an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential shall be obliged to: 1. take at any time the necessary measures to prevent major accidents and to limit their consequences for human health and the environment; 2. is ready at any time to certify, including. for the purposes of control by the committees under art. 157a, para. 2, that he has taken all necessary measures under point 2. 1; 3. provide the necessary assistance to the committees under art. 157a, para. 2 for carrying out inspections of the undertaking/unit, including for sampling and collecting the necessary information to establish the fulfilment of the obligations under this section and the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9; 4. develop a policy for the prevention of major accidents (AGA) and ensure its proper implementation by appropriate means, structures and system for the management of safety measures (SSM); 5. draw up a report on the major accident prevention policy (GMPA) in which to set out the relevant GMPA and SMB. (2) The major accident prevention policy shall: 1. is proportionate to the dangers of major accidents and to take into account the complexity of the organisation of activities within the undertaking; 2. include the objectives of the operator as a whole and the principles of action, the role and responsibility of management, as well as a commitment to continuously improving control over the hazards of a major accident by the operator; 3. ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment by planning, developing and implementing appropriate means, structures and management systems. (3) For undertakings and/or facilities with low risk potential, the obligation to implement the PGA may be fulfilled by other appropriate means, structures and management systems other than those referred to in para. 1, t. 4 if they take into account the dangers of major accidents and meet the requirements for scope and content of the PGA as defined by the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9. Art. 106. (1) The operator of a new establishment and/or facility with low risk potential shall draw up and submit any update thereof to the Director of the RIEW on whose territory the establishment/ facility is located within three months before the establishment/ facility is put into service or before any changes thereto leading to a change in the list of hazardous substances. (2) The Director of the RIEW or an official authorised by him within 14 days of receipt of the GMPA shall confirm the completeness and compliance of the report with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9 or notify the operator in writing of errors and deficiencies in the form and content of the GMPA and shall set a period of up to one month for their removal. If necessary, the Director of the RIEW may request an opinion from the authorities under art. 157a, para. 2 concerning the completeness and conformity of the GMPA. (3) The undertaking and/or the facility under para. 1 shall be put into service after submission of a full GMPA in accordance with the requirements for scope and content defined by the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9 certifying that the operator has provided for all necessary measures to prevent major accidents and limit their consequences. (4) Within 7 days of sending the confirmation under para. 2, the Director of RIEW or an official authorised by him shall send a copy of the report to the bodies referred to in Article 2. 157a, para. 2 for control purposes. (5) The operator under para. 1 is required to review the GMPA and SMB and, where necessary, update the GMPA as follows: 1. at appropriate intervals not exceeding 5 years; 2. in the event of a significant increase or reduction of the quantities of hazardous substances in the plant and/or facility; 3. in the event of changes in the undertaking and/or the facility or changes in a process or in the nature, physical form or quantity of hazardous substances which could have significant consequences for the hazards of major accidents or may result in classification of the undertaking and/or facility in an undertaking and/or facility with high risk potential; 4. after a major accident occurs in the establishment and/or facility; 5. on its own initiative or at the request of the Director of RIEW, where new data or scientific information are available on the safe operation of the establishment and/or facility and/or as a result of control. (6) When in the cases under para. 5 It is established that no update of the GMPA is required, the operator is required to document the data and conclusions of the review carried out and to provide the documentation to the Committee under art. 157a, para. 2 for control purposes. Art. 107. (1) The operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential shall develop and implement: 1. safety report; 2. a report on the policy of preventing major accidents; 3. Internal emergency plan of the enterprise. (2) The form and content of the documents under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 103, para. 9. (3) By the safety report, the operator shall verify that: 1. the major accident prevention policy and the relevant safety management system necessary for its implementation have been put into effect; 2. the dangers of major accidents and possible major accident scenarios are identified and all necessary measures shall be taken to prevent such accidents and to limit their consequences for human health and the environment; 3. ensure a high level of safety and security in the model, construction, operation and maintenance of each facility, including storage facility, equipment and infrastructure related to its operation, which relate to the dangers of major accidents within the undertaking; 4. an internal emergency plan of the undertaking has been drawn up; 5. the mayor of the municipality in whose territory the undertaking and/or the facility is located shall be provided with the necessary information to draw up an external emergency plan of the establishment/ facility; 6. sufficient information shall be provided for decision-making by the competent authorities referred to in Chapter Six and under the Code of Design on the deployment of new activities or constructions around the enterprise and/or facility. (4) When preparing the internal emergency plan, the operator of an existing establishment and/or facility with high risk potential shall be obliged to consult the personnel of the undertaking, including the staff working on long-term contracts for subcontractors in the undertaking. (5) An operator which has drawn up an emergency plan under an obligation imposed by another regulatory act shall be obliged to take the necessary action to ensure that this plan is implemented immediately upon the occurrence of: 1. major accident, or 2. an uncontrollable event which can be expected to cause a major accident. Art. 108. (1) The mayor of the municipality in whose territory an undertaking and/or facility with high risk potential is located shall be obliged to draw up and ensure the execution of an external emergency plan for that undertaking/unit, with a description of the measures to be taken outside the territory of the undertaking/unit. The external emergency plan shall be drawn up as part of the municipal disaster protection plan under art. 9, para. 10 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters. (2) The external emergency plan under para. 1 shall be drawn up, updated and adopted in accordance with art. 9, para. 10 and 11 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters and on the basis of the information provided by the operator under art. 116z, para. 3, p. 2, within 6 months of the date of its delivery. (3) The design of an external emergency plan under para. 1 and any substantial amendment thereof shall be agreed by the mayor of the municipality concerned with: 1. the affected public; 2. the operator of the plant / facility; 3. the relevant RIEW in the territory of which the plant is located; 4. the components of the single rescue system concerned with the implementation of the measures in the external emergency plan and disaster protection. (4) The form and content of the external emergency plan shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9. (5) Every mayor of the municipality who has prepared an external emergency plan shall be obliged: 1. at appropriate intervals not exceeding three years, to review, verify and, where necessary, update the external emergency plan. The review shall be carried out after a new decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 approving a safety report or obtaining information under art. 116e, para. 4 and take into account changes that occurred in the undertaking or the relevant rescue services under the Disaster Protection Act, new technical knowledge and knowledge of major accident response; 2. periodically organize and conduct training and exercises according to the plan under para. 1. (6) By 31 January of each year the mayors of municipalities in whose territory undertakings and/or facilities with high risk potential are located shall provide the directors of the relevant RIEWs with information on trainings and exercises of external emergency plans in accordance with the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9. Art. 109. (1) The construction and operation of a new and operational establishment and/or facility with high risk potential or parts thereof shall be carried out following a decision by the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency to approve the safety report under the conditions and in accordance with this section. (2) The provision of para. 1 shall also apply to planned changes/expansions in existing establishments and/or facilities with high risk potential. (3) The decision under para. 1 is mandatory for the issue of a permit for the construction of the plant and/or the facility under the order of the Construction Act on the territory. (4) Exception under para. 3 shall be permitted for undertakings/units, as well as planned modifications/expansions in them for which the relevant EIA procedure has ended under Section III of Chapter 6 of Chapter 6 by issuing a decision approving the location and confirming safe distances in accordance with art. 99b, para. 5. Art. 110. (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall be a competent authority for issuing decisions and terminating decisions under art. 116 under the terms and conditions of this Section and maintain a record of the acts issued. (2) The authority under para. 1 by a reasoned decision terminates the operation of a decision issued under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 after receiving information from the Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him upon submission of an updated notification under art. 103, para. 2 concerning: 1. a significant reduction in the quantity or change in the list of hazardous substances on the basis of which the establishment and/or facility are no longer classified with high risk potential; 2. final decommissioning of the plant and/or facility. Art. 111. (1) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him: 1. validate the classification of undertakings and/or facilities with low and high risk potential carried out by operators; 2. notify the potentially affected countries and provide information in accordance with the requirements of the Convention on the Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents, signed in Helsinki on 17 March 1992 (as amended by Law - SG No. 28 from 1995) where there is a risk of a major cross-border accident in an undertaking and/or facility with high risk potential; 3. in the event of a major accident meeting the reporting criteria set out in Annex 5 shall report the information referred to in art. 116d, para. 2 and 3 presented by the operator of a low-risk or high-risk plant whose territory the accident occurred to the electronic database of the European Commission (e-MARS); 4. on the basis of the notifications received for classification under art. 103, para. 2, report information on low-risk and high-risk facilities to the European Commission's electronic database (e-SPIRS); 5. inform the European Commission of the name and address of any authority holding the relevant information on major accidents and may consult the competent authorities of the other Member States which take action in the event of such an accident; 6. keep a public electronic register of enterprises and facilities with low and high risk potential. (2) The form and content of the register under para. 1, t. 6 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 103, para. 9. (3) Data on the results of the issuing of decisions under art. 116, para. 1 shall be provided by the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency. Art. 112. (1) The operator of a new undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential shall submit to the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency an application for approval of the safety report no later than 6 months before the submission of an application for a construction permit under the Law on Construction in the Area or prior to amendments leading to a change in the list of hazardous substances. (2) The form and content of the application under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 103, para. 9. (3) To the application under para. 1 The operator shall apply: 1. safety report; 2. a report on the policy of preventing major accidents; 3. internal emergency plan of the enterprise; 4. Documents to authenticate the cases under art. 109, para. 1 or 4, as follows: (a) a copy of an opinion from the relevant competent authority referred to in Section III of Chapter Six that the planned construction or amendment/extension of the undertaking/unit or parts thereof is not subject to a procedure referred to in Section III of Chapter Six, or (b) a copy of a decision in force to assess the need to carry out an EIA which has decided not to carry out an EIA with reasons for approving the location and confirming the safe distances for the establishment/ facility under art. 99b, para. 5 with data on the type and quantity of hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 and the activities and facilities in which these substances will be available; or (c) a copy of an EIA decision entering into force approving the investment proposal with reasons for approving the location and confirming the safe distances for the establishment/ facility under art. 99b, para. 5 with data on the type and quantity of hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 and the activities and facilities in which these substances will be available; 5. a document for a fee paid under art. 71, para. 1. (4) With the application under para. 1 The operator may request from the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency part of the information in the documents under para. 3 shall be declared confidential where it constitutes a manufacturing or commercial secret and shall present the relevant reasons therefor. (5) Where part of the information contained in the application under para. 1 or the documents under para. 3, constitutes state or professional secrecy or contains personal data, the operator shall provide the relevant reasons for implementing the provisions of the Classified Information Protection Act, respectively, of the Personal Data Protection Act. (6) In the cases under para. 4 and 5 the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency within 7 days of receipt of the request shall notify the operator in writing whether the request is partially or fully respected and shall set a period of up to 5 days for the submission of a revised version of the documents in paper and electronic form for the purpose of public access, which shall not contain the information accepted as confidential. (7) In the cases referred to in art. 109, para. 4 applications under para. 1 shall be dealt with by the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency if a decision on the approval of the investment proposal under art. 99b, para. 5. (8) In the cases referred to in art. 109, para. 1 the application under para. 1 shall be dealt with by the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency in the presence of an opinion by the relevant competent authority under Chapter Six, Section III, that the investment proposal is not subject to a procedure under Chapter Six, Section III. Art. 113. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 109, para. 4 The operator shall submit the application under art. 112, para. 1 no later than 6 months before putting the plant into service and/or the facility or parts thereof. (2) When examining the documents under para. 1 The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall ensure that any information received and concluded by procedures carried out under Chapter Six and procedures for issuing, updating or amending a permit under art. 117 where applicable to the establishment and/or facility. (3) The operator under para. 1 is required to implement all measures in the approved safety report relating to the construction and safe operation of the plant and/or facility and in cases under art. 109, para. 4 The measures and conditions in question in the decision under art. 99b, para. 5. (4) The information in the safety report under para. 3 must comply with the information submitted to the competent authority under Chapter Six, Section III, as well as with the conditions and measures in the decisions by which the relevant EIA procedures have been completed. Art. 114 (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency within 14 days of receipt of the documents under art. 112, para. 3 inform the operator of errors and incompleteness and set a period of up to 30 days of their removal. (2) Within 7 days after the expiry of the term under para. 1 or from receipt of the corrected and supplemented documents, the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency shall send the documents for an opinion to the Minister of Health, the Minister of Interior, the Executive Director of the Labour Executive Agency, the Mayor of the Municipality and the Director of RIEW, in whose territory the undertaking and/or the facility is located. (3) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency and the bodies under para. 2 or officials authorised by them may carry out on-the-spot checks in order to assess the conformity of the documents referred to in art. 112, para. 3 with the measures envisaged by the operator to prevent major accidents and to limit their consequences. (4) The bodies of para. 2 send to the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency their opinions within one month of receipt of the documents under art. 112, para. 3. (5) The lack of opinion of some of the bodies under para. 2 within the statutory period shall be deemed to be silent consent. Art. 115. (1) Within the term referred to in art. 114, para. 2 The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall publish an advertisement for open public access to the documents under art. 112, para. 3, p. 1-3 on the Agency's website and provides access to them by the affected public within one month from the date of publication of the advertisement. The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall provide the documents and a copy of the advert to the mayor of the municipality in whose territory the undertaking/the facility is located and, in the case of undertakings and/or facilities with the potential for a major accident with cross-border impact, shall inform the Minister of Environment and Water for the purposes of art. 111, para. 1, t. 2. (2) Within 5 days of receipt of the documents under art. 112, para. 3, p. 1-3 The mayor of the municipality concerned shall inform the affected public through an advert in local mass media and shall provide access to them within one month from the date of publication of the advert. The advertisement corresponds to the scope and content of the advertisement under para. 1. The Minister of Environment and Water shall notify the potentially affected States and provide information in accordance with the requirements of the Convention on Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents. (3) Within the one-month period of public access under para. 1 and 2, the representatives of the public concerned may submit written opinions, comments and proposals on the documentation. (4) In cases where there is a request under art. 112, para. 4, the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency and the Mayor of the municipality concerned shall provide the public with revised documentation pursuant to art. 112, para. 6. (5) Within three days after the expiry of the term under para. 2, The mayor of the municipality concerned shall send the results of public access to the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency, including by official means. information on how to provide it. (6) The order and manner of making public access and the content of the advertisement under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 103, para. 9. (7) In the preparation of a decision under art. 116, the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency shall take into account the opinions on the documentation received on public access. (8) Where on the basis of an opinion under para. 3 or art. 114, para. 4 Discretions or incompletes shall be identified in the documents referred to in art. 112, para. 1-3, the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall give instructions to the operator and shall set a deadline of no more than 30 days for their removal. Art. 116. (1) The Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Environment, within 30 days after the expiry of the term of art. 114, para. 4 or from receipt of the corrected and supplemented documents under art. 115, para. 8, issues: 1. a decision approving the safety report where as a result of the procedure under art. 109-115 found that the operator had provided for sufficient measures to prevent major accidents and limit their effects, which were documented in the safety report and, where applicable, fulfilled the relevant measures and/or conditions in the decision ending the procedure under Chapter Six, Section III, or 2. a decision not to approve the safety report where: (a) the operator has not provided for measures in the safety report or the measures envisaged are not sufficient to prevent major accidents or to mitigate the consequences thereof, or the relevant measures and/or conditions have not been met in the decisions with which the procedure under Chapter Six, Section III has been completed; or (b) the operator has failed to comply with the instructions given and/or has failed to comply with the specified deadline under art. 115, para. 8; or (c) authority under art. 114, para. 2 or a representative of the public concerned has submitted a reasoned objection to the legality of the project. (2) On the basis of the information in the safety report, the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency may, by reasoned decision, exempt the mayor of the municipality concerned from the obligation to draw up an external emergency plan for the undertaking/unity where this is not necessary. (3) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall, on the basis of the information in an updated safety report of the undertaking (s) under art. 116g, may, in writing, withdraw the decision on the exemption under para. 2, indicating the date on which the exemption expires and the date by which the mayor of the municipality concerned must draw up and submit an external emergency plan to the undertaking/unity. (4) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall send the decision under para. 2 to the Minister of Environment and Water, where, on the basis of the documents referred to in art. 112, para. 3 finds that an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential located near the territory of a Member State under the Convention on the Cross-border Effects of Industrial Accidents does not pose a major accident beyond its borders and that the mayor does not need to draw up an external emergency plan. The Minister of Environment and Water shall inform the other Member State. Art. 116a. Upon completion of the procedure for examining and approving the safety report, the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency shall draw up a technical report stating: 1. the reasons on which the decision is based; 2. a description of the consultations held prior to the decision and an explanation of how the opinions received have been taken into account. Art. 116b. (1) Within 7 days of issuing a decision under art. 116, para. 1 The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall inform the operator of the undertaking and/or the facility and the bodies referred to in Article in writing. 111, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 114, para. 2 for his release. For a decision issued under art. 116, para. 2 or 3 shall be notified to the mayor of the municipality concerned. (2) The Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall make any decision under art. 116, para. 1 within 14 days of its issuance through the central mass media, the Agency's website and/or otherwise appropriate. Art. 116c. The decisions referred to in art. 116, para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of their publication under art. 116b. Art. 116 C.E. (1) In the event of a major accident, the operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with low or high risk potential shall immediately notify the relevant operational centre of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and the mayor of the immediate threatened municipality under the Order of the Law on Disaster Protection, as well as the Director of the RIEW, in whose territory the undertaking or facility is located, and shall proceed to the implementation of the internal emergency plan of the undertaking. (2) In the event of a major accident, the operator shall, as soon as the event has been established or no later than 30 days after its occurrence, provide the Minister of Environment and Water with information on: 1. the circumstances of the occurrence of the accident; 2. hazardous substances causing the accident or aggravating its consequences; 3. the available data to enable the impact of the accident on human health and the environment to be assessed; 4. the actions taken immediately after the occurrence of the accident; 5. the envisaged measures to prevent recurrence of an accident; 6. the measures envisaged to limit the medium and long-term consequences of the accident; 7. detailed analysis of the scale of the accident according to the criteria set out in Annex No 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u123	The operator is obliged to update the information under para. 2 and provide it to the authority under para. 2 upon receipt of new data relating to the causes of the accident and its consequences if further investigation reveals additional facts that change the information received or conclusions drawn. Art. 116e. (1) Operators of undertakings and/or facilities with low and high risk potential and mayors of the municipalities concerned shall provide the affected public regularly with clear and understandable information on emergency planning for those undertakings/ equipments and the necessary measures and behaviour in the event of a major accident. (2) The safety report and the list of hazardous substances shall be made available to the public on request. (3) The scope, content and manner of providing the information under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 103, para. 9. (4) The decisions to provide information under para. 2 may be appealed under Chapter Three, Section IV of the Public Information Access Act. (5) The provided under para. 1 and 2 information must comply with the regulatory requirements for access to information classified as public or professional secrecy and/or for the protection of personal data. Art. 116f. (1) The operator of an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential shall review and update the safety report if necessary: 1. at appropriate intervals not exceeding 5 years; 2. after a major accident occurred on the territory of the plant/ facility; 3. on its own initiative or at the request of the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency or the Director of the relevant RIEW, or officials authorised by them in the presence of new data, circumstances or scientific information relating to the safe operation of the undertaking and/or facility, including conclusions arising from the analysis of accidents or quasi-awarenesss, as well as the development of knowledge on the assessment of hazards; 4. in the case of modifications to the undertaking/unit or to a process, or in the nature, physical form or quantity of hazardous substances which could have significant consequences for the hazards of major accidents or may result in classification of the undertaking/unit in a low risk plant or in the case of non-compliance with an already approved safety report of the undertaking. (2) The operator under para. 1 verify, review and update, where necessary, the internal emergency plan: 1. at appropriate intervals not exceeding three years; 2. after a major accident occurred on the territory of the plant/ facility; 3. in the event of changes to the undertaking or component parts of the single rescue system under the Law on Protection of Disasters, new technical knowledge, as well as knowledge about the response to major accidents. (3) When on the basis of a review of the documents under para. 1 and/or 2 the operator shall establish that no update is required, it shall document the data and conclusions of the review carried out and provide the documentation to the Committee on Art. 157a, para. Two on inspection. (4) In the cases under para. 2 The operator shall provide the updated internal emergency plan to the Committee on Art. 157a, para. 2 for control purposes and for updating the external emergency plan by the mayor of the affected municipality. Art. 116g. (1) Within 7 days following the update of the safety report, the operator referred to in art. 116e, para. 1 submit to the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency an application for approval of the updated report stating the reasons and circumstances for the update and describing the changes made therein. (2) To the application under para. 1 The operator shall apply: 1. the updated safety report; 2. updated documents under art. 107, para. 1, t. 2 and 3, where changes require this; 3. a document for a fee paid under art. 71, para. 1. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 116e, para. 1, t. 4 The operator shall submit to the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency the updated safety report at the earliest moment but no later than 4 months before the planned date for implementation of the amendments by applying: 1. a copy of an opinion from the relevant competent authority under Chapter Six, Section III that the planned amendment/expansion of the undertaking/building or parts thereof is not subject to a procedure under Chapter Six, Section III, or 2. a copy of the decision in force to assess the need to carry out the EIA of the planned amendment/expansion of the undertaking (s) with which it is decided not to carry out an EIA with reasons for confirming the safe distances to the undertaking (s) under art. 99b, para. 5, or 3. a copy of an EIA decision to approve the investment proposal for amendment/expansion with reasons for confirming the safe distances to the establishment/ facility under art. 99b, para. 5 indicating the type and quantity of hazardous substances listed in Annex 3 and the activities and facilities in which these substances will be available. (4) Upon receipt of an updated safety report under para. 2, the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency shall conduct the procedure under Article 2. 112-116 and issue a new decision approving or not approving the updated safety report. Art. 116z. (1) Where, on the basis of the information in the GMPA, in the safety report or as a result of the checks under art. 157a, para. 2 The Executive Director of the ESA or the Director of the relevant RIEW shall identify undertakings and/or facilities with low or high risk potential or a group of such undertakings that are at risk of a domino effect due to their proximity, geographical location or list of hazardous substances which increase the risk or consequences of major accidents and shall inform the operators of those undertakings/units thereof. (2) In the cases under para. 1 operators are required to: 1. exchange information on the nature and degree of danger of a major accident in the enterprises/ equipment; 2. update the information under point 2. 1, taking into account the nature and scale of the danger of a major accident in its major accident prevention policies, safety management systems, safety reports and undertaking emergency plans. (3) In the cases under para. 1 operators shall cooperate in: 1. provision of information under art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 to the public and to neighbouring 2. providing information necessary for the preparation of an external emergency plan by the mayor of the municipality, in whose territory the undertaking/the facility is located.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u124	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer and to create a new one in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u125	Under § 9 to § 33, the Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes to be rejected because it is reflected in § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u126	Paragraph 34 is reflected in Paragraph 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u127	Yeah. From § 9 to § 33 including the Commission supports the texts of the importer, but proposes to reject them because they are systematically reflected in § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u128	And § 34 is proposed to be rejected because it is reflected in § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u129	Dismissed as it is reflected in § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u130	Please vote on the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 9 to 34, including. to § 33, are reflected in § 8, and § 34 is reflected in § 7 of the Commission report. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposals for the rejection of paragraphs 9 to 34, including those adopted unanimously, are reflected up to § 33 in § 8 and § 34 in § 7 respectively in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u131	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u132	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of paragraphs 35 to 39, including by importer, which in the Commission's report are from § 9 to § 13 inclusive. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 9 to 13 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u133	Proposal of the MPs Ivan Valkov, Svilen Ivanov, Cornelia Marinova, Zhivko Martinov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 14, 15 and 16: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162 the following amendments are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For violations of this law, individuals, district managers, mayors of municipalities, mayors of districts, mayors of town halls and officials are punished with fines from 200 to 20 000 BGN and for legal persons and sole traders are subject to property sanctions from 5000 to 500 000 BGN. 2. In para. 3 words - 100 BGN - are replaced by 100 to 500 BGN................................................................................................................... § 15. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 162a: Art. 162a. (1) To a legal person or sole trader, who, in the event of or in the event of carrying out his activities with his or her activity or omission, allows unauthorised release of hazardous chemicals and mixtures and/or waste from a production, warehouse or transport facility or installation, including a pipeline which does not fall within the scope of an authorisation issued under art. 117, a penalty of 10 000 to 500 000 BGN is imposed and a fine of 300 to 3000 BGN is imposed on individuals. (2) In case of repeated infringement, the penalty shall be double the amount of the penalty. § 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 164, para. 1 the number.. 100
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u134	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 14, 15 and 16. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraphs 14, 15 and 16, together with their respective texts on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u135	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. A new article shall be created. 164c: Art. 164c. (1) The Minister of Environment and Water or the Director of RIEW, in whose territory an undertaking and/or a facility with low or high risk potential is located, shall prohibit the operation of the establishment/ facility by a reasoned order, including the storage facility or parts thereof, where: 1. the operator has not prepared and/or submitted an GMPA, a safety report and/or any other information required under this section and the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9; 2. the operator operates an undertaking and/or facility with high risk potential without having received a decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 or after a decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. an undertaking and/or a facility with high risk potential does not comply with the decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1; 4. the measures applied by the operator are not sufficient to prevent major accidents or limit their consequences, or 5. in the reports on control activities under art. 157b, para. 2, p. 1 shall contain findings of the Committee on Art. 1. 157a, para. 2 for serious infringements by the operator in taking the necessary action to prevent major accidents and limit their consequences. (2) The order under para. 1 may be appealed by the persons concerned under the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) The appeal of the order under para. 1 does not stop its execution. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 166a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words of activity without authorisation under art. No. 104, para. 1 or no decision to amend the authorisation under art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1s are replaced by an activity without an effective decision approving the safety report under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 or under art. 116g, para. 4............................................................................................ 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For non-compliance with technical, organisational and/or management measures to prevent major accidents and limit their consequences in the safety report approved by the decision under art. 116, para. 1, t. 1 as well as for non-compliance with the obligations under Art. 1. 103, para. 2, 4 and 5, Art. 105, para. 1, t. Art. 3, Art. 106, para. 1, 3, 5 and 6, Art. 107, para. 1, 3, 4 and 5, Art. 109, para. Art. 1-3, Art. 112, para. Art. 1, art. 113, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. Art. 116d, Art. Article 116f. 116g, para. 1-3, the natural person, if not subject to more severe punishment, or the legal person is subject to a fine, respectively a penalty of 10 000 to 20 000 BGN. 3. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 116a, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: No. 104, para. Art. 5 and 6 and art. 116z, para. The following information is available 4. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 108, para. Art. 1, art. 116a, para. Art. 3 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 29 after the words "in the enterprise' is added "in the land' or below the ground'; (b) point 29a is amended as follows: 29a. "Conservation of hazardous substances' is the presence of a certain quantity of hazardous substances for storage purposes, the provision of liability or maintenance in stock. (c) c. 29c: (aa) the point (s) is amended as follows: .) kindergartens and gardens and specialized institutions for social services for children, students or adults, schools and universities, school and student dormitories, musical, language and sports schools and centers for working with children; (bb) in point (b) after the word (s), the comma and the text shall be deleted until the end; (c) at the beginning of the period, amusement parks and amusement parks shall be added; (d) at the end of the period referred to in point (d) the parking lots shall be added; (ed) in point (e) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (d) shall be established. 29e: ..29e. The following are investment proposals for urban development: schools and higher education, school and student dormitories; medical and health institutions; sports sites, stadiums and sports halls; theatres, cinemas, concert halls; railway stations, airports, ports, bus stations. (e) create a t. 29f: It's 29. The main roads are the Republican roads under the Roads and Railways Act and I and II category under the Rail Transport Act. (f) c. 31 the words "or preparations' shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: the undertakings/unities shall have low or high risk potential. (g) create a t. 31a, 31b, 31c, 31d and 31e: 31a. A low-risk facility is an undertaking/a facility with dangerous substances in quantities equal to or exceeding the quantities set out in Annex No 3, Part 1, column 2, or Part 2, column 2, but less than the quantities set out in Annex No 3, Part 1, column 3, or Part 2, column 3, where applicable, using the summation rule set out in Note 4 of Annex No 3. 31b. A high-risk facility is an undertaking where there are dangerous substances in quantities equal to or exceeding the quantities set out in Annex No 3, Part 1, column 3, or Part 2, column 3, where applicable, using the summation rule set out in note 4 of Annex No 3. 31c. It is an undertaking/a facility located in such proximity to another undertaking/a facility that increases the danger or consequences of a major accident. 31 C.E. The new enterprise/enabled facility (s) is: (a) an undertaking/unit which is either put into service or constructed on 1 June 2015 or after that date; or (b) an active site falling within the scope of Chapter 7, Section I, or a low-risk plant/unity, which, due to changes in the facilities or activities which led to a change in the list of hazardous substances as of 1 June 2015, or after that date, becomes a high-risk undertaking/unity or low-risk potential; (c) an active site falling within the scope of Chapter 7, Section I, or an undertaking/a low risk facility which becomes an undertaking/a facility with high risk potential or low risk potential as of 1 June 2015 or after that date for reasons other than those referred to in point (b). 31e. "Accommodating Enterprise/Equipment' is an undertaking/a facility which, on 31 May 2015, falls within the scope of Chapter Seven, Section I and from 1 June 2015 is an undertaking/a facility whose classification as an undertaking/a low or high risk facility remains unchanged. (h) New t is created. 45 and 46: 45. A mixture or solution consisting of two or more substances. 46. The presence of hazardous substances shall be the presence or suspected presence of hazardous substances in the establishment or facility or of hazardous substances which can reasonably be assumed to occur in the loss of control of the processes, including storage activities in one of the facilities in the establishment, in quantities equal to or exceeding the quantities required in Part 1 or Part 2 of Annex 3; (i) paragraph 53a is repealed; (k) c. 54 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) for the purposes of Chapter 7, Section I, any substance or mixture classified in one or more of the hazard categories referred to in Part 1 of Annex 3 or listed in Part 2 of Annex No 3, including in the form of raw material, product, by-product, residue or intermediate product, including a substance likely to occur as a result of a reaction or in the event of an accident; (l) point c. 54a is amended as follows: It's 54a. A major accident is the occurrence of a major issue, fire or explosion which occurs as a result of uncontrollable events in the course of operations of any undertaking or facility within the scope of Chapter Seven, Section I and which results in a serious hazard to human health and/or to the environment which is imminent, delayed, inside or out of the undertaking and includes one or more hazardous substances classified in one or more of the hazard categories referred to in Part 1 of Annex 3 or listed in Part 2 of Annex 3. (m) point 54b is repealed; n) are created t. 54c, 54d and 54e: "54c." It is an internal property of dangerous substances or a physical situation with the possibility of harming human health and/or the environment. 54 C.E. "Danger of the substance' is a characteristic property of a dangerous substance from which, in the physical situation in which it is present, an opportunity arises from damage to human health and/or the environment. 54e. the risk of a specific effect occurring within a specified period or under certain conditions; o) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) 2. Paragraph 2a is amended as follows: It's 2a. This law introduces the provisions of Directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major accident hazards involving hazardous substances, amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82/EC (OJ L 197/1 of 24 July 2012.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Paragraph 12a of the Transitional and Final Provisions of para. 2 the words of the opinion or the opinion or the opinions or the statements or the statements shall be taken into account. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u136	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 40 to 44 by importer which, in the Commission's report, acquire numbering from 17 to 21 inclusive. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 17 to 21, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Annex No 5 is amended as follows: "Acceptance No 5 to art. 111, para. 1, t. 3 Criteria for reporting a major accident I. Any major accident described in item 1. 1 or which results in at least one of the consequences described in paragraph 1. 2-5 shall be reported to the Commission. It's a big accident that: 1. includes hazardous substances in quantities not less than 5 per cent of the limit quantities according to Annex No 3, Part 1, column 3 or column 2, and causes fire, explosion or release of dangerous substances. 2. causes at least one of the following adverse effects on the lives and health of people and on infrastructure in the area of the enterprise and/or facility: (a) death; (b) six injured in the establishment and/or facility (hospitalised for at least 24 hours); (c) one injured outside the establishment and/or facility (hospitalised for at least 24 hours); (d) damaged and unusable due to the accident residential buildings outside the establishment and/or facility; (e) removal of the affected population (evacuation) outside the accident zone for at least two hours (production from the number of evacuated persons and the number of hours must be at least 500); (f) stay of the affected population in protective facilities in the accident zone for at least two hours (production from the number of evacuees and the number of hours must be at least 500); (g) water supply, electricity supply, gas supply, telephone services in the accident zone or in the impact area for more than two hours (the production of the number of persons and the number of hours shall be at least 1000). 3. causes immediate damage or contamination to the limit values for environmental components with the following characteristics: 3.1. permanent or long-term damage to terrestrial habitats: (a) 0,5 hectares or more of a habitat of conservation significance or other environmental importance protected by a regulatory or administrative act; (b) 10 hectares or more of a more widespread habitat, including agricultural land; 3.2. significant or long-term pollution of fresh waters and marine habitats: (a) 10 km or more from a river or canal; (b) per 1 hectare or more of an artificial or natural lake; (c) 2 hectares or more from delta; (d) 2 hectares or more from the coastal zone or the high seas; 3.3. significant pollution on a water-borne horizon or groundwater of 1 hectare or more. 4. cause one of the following property damage: (a) damage to the enterprise? at least 4 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) damage outside of the enterprise, at least 1 million. lv. 5. Cross-border impacts: any major accident involving directly a dangerous substance causing an impact outside the territory of the country. II. Accidents or quasi-indemnities which do not meet the quantitative criteria described in item I, but are of particular technical interest in preventing major accidents and limiting the consequences thereof, shall be reported to the Commission at the discretion of the authority under art. 111, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: The provisions of Paragraph 24, 25 and 26 shall not apply where the operator has drawn up the relevant documents and has submitted them to the competent authority before 1 June 2015, and the information contained therein remains unchanged and complies with the requirements of Chapter Seven, Section I and of the ordinance under art. 103, para. 9. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Environment and Water shall draw up and publish on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water a schedule for the submission of documents under § 24, 25 and 26. The schedule shall be agreed with the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u138	Let's stop here before the proposal. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 45 to 52, including by importer, which, in the Commission's report, acquire a numbering from 22 to 29 including, as well as the name of the division. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 22 to 29 of the Commission's report are adopted together with the name of the division. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph is to report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u139	The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. The term referred to in paragraph 1 shall not exceed the period referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 88, para. 4 shall also apply to opinions on an environmental assessment or decisions which are assessed not to carry out an environmental assessment issued until the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u140	Let us vote on the proposal to create a new paragraph. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 30. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposal to create a new § 30, with its corresponding content on the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u141	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... The law on liability for the prevention and removal of environmental damage (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, t. 7 shall be added at the end, except where the state of emergency is the result of cases within the meaning of art. 3.................................................................................. 2. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." "Basis state' is the condition during the damage to natural resources and services that would have been present if environmental damage had not occurred on the basis of the best available information. (b) c. 23 words within protected areas, under the Biodiversity Act, are deleted. 3. In Annex 1 to art. 3, p. 1: (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." Implementation of water and water use activities, includingSubcutaneous or intravenous use (a) any discharges in surface water of waste water to release hazardous substances specified in the regulations under art. 135, para. 1, t. 9 and 17 of the Water Act requiring prior regulation in the discharge permits issued under the Water Act and in the complex permits under the Environmental Protection Act; (b) removals of substances into groundwater, injection of pollutants into groundwater, water capture and boiling of water for which authorisation is required within the meaning of the Water Act. (b) c. 4 after the words "sizes', the word "soils' is added and the word "soils' is replaced by "soils'; (c) c. 6 the word "preparations' is replaced by "supplied'; (d) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. Carrying out waste transport activities, including import, export and transit of waste within the meaning of Chapter 5, Section IV of the Waste Management Act. (e) c. 10 is finally added under the Underground Capitals Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 34: ................. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-30.u142	Statements? I won't. We vote on paragraphs 31, 32, 33 and 34 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control messages on 31 July 2015 at 11:00: - Debates on the questions of MPs Mihail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova to the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on the demographic perspective in front of the country; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Krasimir Bogdanov, and Stanislav Stanilov and one question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva will answer one question from the National Representative Svetlin Tanchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Penkov Ivanov, and Gunay Heusmen; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valkov, and Dora Yankova and Stoyan Mirchev; - The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer six questions from the MPs Dimitar Gorov, Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev, Georgi Kadiev, Krasimir Yankov, Filip Popov, and Krasimira Kovachka and one question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on three issues from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Christian Vigenin and Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov of a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to two questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, and Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov general; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Lyubomir Vladimirov and Georgi Kadiev and one question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - four questions from the National Representative Maya Manolova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, and to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, two questions; - a question from the MP Borislav Iglev to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; - a question from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Georgi Kadiev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - question and question from the MP Slavi Binev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, and to the Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate. Due to a preliminary official commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will not participate. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. We start with a legislative part at 11:00. I'm in control. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
