ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly on 24 June 2015. 1. Hearing of the management and composition of the KEWRC on the pricing model used by the KEWRC in the implementation of its powers arising from the Energy Act, as well as Regulation No 1 for regulating the prices of electricity. The energy. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. 2. Draft Decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 31 January 2015. Importer: Valeri Simeonov 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, drawn up on the basis of the draft laws adopted in the first vote on 12 June 2015. Importers: Petar Kanev and a group of MPs, and the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27 October 2014; Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, 27 October 2014; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, 27 October 2014; Council of Ministers, 9 December 2014; Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs, 19 December 2014; Petar Slavov, 5 January 2015; Council of Ministers, 7 April 2015; Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, 8 April 2015; Methodi Andreev and a group of MPs, 8 May 2015. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act. Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. 6. A second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Transport is drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted at first vote. Importers: Council of Ministers; Plamen Manushev, Ivan Valkov and Pavel Hristov. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Bill on the closure of the National Grains Service. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on a bill to supplement the Energy Act. Importers: Dimitar Glavchev and a group of MPs 10. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the State Property Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importers: Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income. Importer: Council of Ministers. 16. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday with the starting time.. 11:00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 165 MPs: 146, against 4, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Proposed by the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the inclusion of new points in the weekly programme: First at the time made his proposal Mr. Petar Slavov for inclusion in the Programme of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Commercial Register Act submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs in the Programme for this week is. The next proposal is by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs for hearing the management and composition of the KEWRC on the pricing model used by the KEWRC in the implementation of its powers arising from the Energy Act, as well as Decree No 1 on the regulation of electricity prices. 1 in the program. Proposals of the MP Mrs Cornelia Ninova. It proposes that the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importers Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs should be included as an item on the National Assembly's agenda for the period 24 June 2015. At the Conference of Presidents, I informed the participants that there are six draft laws amending and supplementing the Social Security Code and that the debates on the six draft laws are envisaged, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise today, to take place next plenary week. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing that a bill be put on the agenda to amend and supplement the Social Security Code. This is our different view of the changes in the terms and conditions of retirement. I'm saying something different than what the government brought in. It is justified, real and possible, taking into account several factors. Firstly, let us not continue to deepen the deficit in the NSI budget. That is why we are making proposals that concern the revenue section of the NSI. Secondly, consider the interests of current pensioners who have low pensions. So we propose a way to recalculate them, which would lead to a 10% real increase. Thirdly, to ensure that people at pre-retirement age are able to retire two years earlier if they are short of internship or age, with a 0.4% lower pension that they will receive for the rest of their life. Fourth, freeze the internship and retirement age as they are now. Because what the government has proposed is virtually impossible to achieve the age of 65 for retirement and 40 years of internship means from the 25th anniversary to the 65th that every person has worked every day without a pass on a social security day. With regard to the revenue side, in order to ensure the costs of these measures, we propose to increase the maximum social security threshold of 10 minimum salaries, the contribution to the Fund Pensions (i.e. 2%), the contribution to the Fund (i.e. unemployment) by 1%. In the revenue section, this would guarantee about 950 million, and the measures we offer as costs would cost about 800 million. Of course, taking into account that the 2015 budget has been adopted under certain parameters, we do not propose that they be changed in the middle of the year, because that would be unreasonable and unargumented. We propose that if this law is passed, it will enter into force from 1 January 2016 in the framework of the 2016 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u3	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 166 MPs: 71 against 17, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Procedure, Mr. Slavov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u4	On our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u5	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor in relation to the proposal from the Reformation Block to examine the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. I see that it is already on the agenda for this week, that is, we do not need to vote on the proposal that I have made. But I would suggest that, fellow Members, we vote to become the second item on Thursday, as this is indeed a very important bill, not a long one. I think we'll be able to accept it very quickly. The bill is supported by a committee at second reading and if we manage to accept it this week, you know that there is a campaign going on to submit annual financial statements for all traders to the Trade Register, which will greatly ease them. I have an assurance from the Registry Agency that, within the shortest possible time, it will start to inform people electronically of any irregularities in the application in order to be able to remove them and not have to be reapplied, new fees and so on. My suggestion is to make it the second point on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u7	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there a reverse offer? No. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act to be fixed as point two for tomorrow, Thursday. They voted 152 MPs: 47, against 10, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is Mr. Volen Siderov, who proposes to include a draft decision for imposing regulation on increasing the prices of electricity and heat. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, to defend the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we propose that a proposal be put on the agenda, which is very relevant. We are talking about regulation of electricity prices, something that is currently, even here, as I understand it, is invited by the chairman of the KEWRC to speak. Our proposal is old, it's aged, our proposals are like wine, the more they age, the better they get. That is why it needs an editorial amendment, as it was tabled last year. Then we have given a deadline by 15 November 2014. The Council of Ministers was then the SEWRC and now it is KEWRC to bring the price method the normal rate of capital returns with the prices that were applied as of 30 June 2014. In this way we cancel the increase in the price of electricity. We're doing a big favor for the government, which now wants to postpone the power increase. I therefore hope that a positive vote with I'm not gonna go into any more detail. You all know that at the moment the government and the ruling majority are wondering how exactly to postpone what the KEWRC has already proposed to increase electricity prices. We are helping you with this decision, which we will adopt if it enters the agenda and is proclaimed with................................................................................................ This will prevent the current from rising. If you accept anything else, but not for now, it is not on the agenda, we can also propose it for six months, during which time a national strategy should be made, to review the contracts with the American Maritsi. These contracts, by which NEK is forced to buy five times and ten times more expensive electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u9	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. I put to the vote Mr. Siderov's proposal for inclusion in our programme of this draft decision. They voted 134 MPs: 26, against 33, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mr. Desislav Chukolov, who proposes to include in our program a bill for amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as you have heard, we are proposing that this week's program introduce a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. What do we want to change to this Law? We want to change linen 49, al. 1, where we can delete the words "translations" intended for the Bulgarian citizens, for whom the Bulgarian language is not maternal, including in their language. In fact, we propose that the news be dropped in Turkish. As you are well aware, since 2005, since the creation of Ataka Party, we have been importing, proposing, insisting, we are demanding that this news be dropped in Turkish. We have not yet succeeded, although in 2009 there was a desire of Party GERB to change this, but it did not happen. In this National Assembly again we insist and propose. As you know, different parties have proposed this during different periods. Different parties, of course, those who copied from the Ataka, the Patriotic Front offered this to enter parliament, and now they have forgotten it. I don't see it in the ultimatums, I don't see you insisting on it in front of "Bulyko" Borisov, as the social networks call it, you forgot this. We from Ataka want this to be watched.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u11	Mr. Chukolov, on the proposal, leave the other parliamentary groups. Give it to me on your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u12	Don't talk while I'm talking, a little more culturally. We insist and want this to enter the National Assembly's Work Programme for this week. We sincerely hope you'll support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u13	Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Chukolov's proposal. They voted 153 MPs: 25, against 58, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov to include the Project for a Decision in the weekly Award Programme within one month the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the necessary actions to withdraw the licenses of the electricity distribution companies CEZ, EVN and We're listening, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u14	That's right. Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I offer to your attention a topic which I know is your favorite subject and you have become even more fond of it lately when you enter the media, namely the cancellation of contracts with the three electricity distribution companies on the territory of the country. This thing we offer not yesterday or today, but a long time ago and always passed it lightly and rejected it because I know that it is a weakness for you to press the gray and red buttons. However, you should think that when a company has a lot of violations in the country's territory, we should be guided by the legislation of our country, by the national interest, by the protection of the interest of society, and by the protection of the Constitution, especially art. 19. It says that our country is run by a free market economy. On this basis we offer you a Project for a solution with which you can correct the bad decisions taken somewhere back in the past, which are now returning to us in the form of different protests. We see the increase in the price of electricity, we see the constant demands by galloping the price of electricity. We've also heard the arguments of business. He said that the way in which the price increase from the SEWRC is currently formulated, it really means closing new jobs, maybe closing production capacities. In this way, we practically kill our own economy. We've already killed our population, brought it to the point that one pension is not enough to pay your electricity bills. Now we're killing the business. For this reason, we give you, in your hands, the future of energy, to decide whether you will hold back and be red again, but how will this lie on your conscience?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. 140 MPs voted: 29, against 45, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd like a re-vote. I'm addressing my colleagues from the Patriotic Front. If you really consider yourself patriots, please read the Constitution, at least Art. 19 "Those who are economists and lawyers among you, and give interpretation to your other colleagues. I will also address those who are social parties, the so-called social parties. Do you think the constant increase in the price of electricity is good for the population?! Do you think the people who chose you consider it a good thing?! Then why do you vote abstentions and abstentions?! Who sent you to the hall, did you choose yourself, or did the Bulgarian people choose you?! I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u17	It's a re-vote. They voted 146 MPs: 37 against 45, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u18	Dear Madam President. I am going out in the manner of conduct to make a note that is just and within the meaning of the Rules. In it there are deadlines for the stay of the bills in the committees, but there is no point to oblige the committees to examine them within a useful time. For this reason, many bills, including ours, especially ours, come to be discussed in the National Assembly without the opinion of the committees. It's a demonstration of neglect, contempt, and I have no words to express such disorder as this. Please make a note of committee chairmen not to allow such a thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u19	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. You're right. There are texts in our Rules which determine the period within which a bill, draft decision or other act of the National Assembly should be discussed by the Standing Committees and the accompanying committees to which it is assigned. Each proposal shall be distributed by me in due time. I would like to draw attention to the Chairs of Standing Committees on which drafts have been allocated to comply with the texts in the Rules setting out the time limits for discussion of a draft bill or a draft decision respectively. Communication on bills and draft decisions for the time from 17 to 23 June 2015: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importers "Peter Slavov" and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the leader of the Committee on Defence. A bill to supplement the Water Act. Importers "Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev. The Committee on Environment and Water is the leading one, and the Committee on Agriculture and Food will also be watching it. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It will be seen by the Budget and Finance Committee. A bill to supplement the Energy Act. Importers "supplier Dimitar Glauchev, Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It will also be seen by the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. We're moving on to our weekly program. Before that, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow Members! Among us are people who in the last one month are engaged in highly responsible activity. At first, we didn't have a procedure and we had to take people to the studios and to the parliament. We did not have a meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee for two weeks, not because we were on leave or had nothing to do. And the signal was correctly read. A lot of people who were fit, qualified and could run for this post decided to abstain. We didn't want a competition procedure. And you remember the time when just like that, without procedure, we chose Iskrov. Why do we have to say the same thing now? We proposed a procedure and were supported by several political groups, but adopted it in a short form. We've described the procedure. We asked the Chamber for two additions to each Member of the National Assembly to exercise its legal powers under the Constitution. It was denied. Our other wish, since this mechanism is incorrect, was the candidate who will dispose of the funds that will exercise this enormous power, to explain what the BNB itself intends to do to commercial banks and what it intends to do, given the entry into the Eurozone. It wasn't accepted anyway. To top it off or as confirmation the other day I saw the finance minister lead one of the candidates at BNB. I hope that this will be applied to the rest of us in order to have a level playing field. Is the executive elected, after all, the governor or the National Assembly? I believe that's our authority. I wouldn't want it to be considered a donation or interference. I wouldn't want to, because there are very few days left until the choice, to see someone else get on a horse and take him to BNB to show him how important and important he is. It wouldn't be right. What are we after? The new jubilee coin in BNB to depict a parachute parachutist, an ocean plane or a paratrooper in boxing gloves?! I think this is going to be embarrassing and embarrassing. We shouldn't go that way. That's not what we're after. It is not necessary and should we necessarily choose one of the key figures in our country with an anti-constitutional procedure, which is responsible for all the currency reserves of the country. BGN, which will legally be a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, who oversees the commercial banks?! For information, the bank's balance sheet capital is nearly 11 billion by the end of 2014, and the banking system's assets are 90 billion. lv. We have a total of 22 banks and six banks. According to the International Monetary Fund, Bulgaria is most threatened by a possible bankruptcy that could occur in Greece. Their banks hold a quarter of the bank's capital, or 25% of the total market share. And we want without concept, without giving us a clear explanation to choose a person, whatever his name is, whoever offers it! In Bulgaria, a person appears in two cases: if they tell you that you have been elected for the post and you have to submit documents or if they tell you that someone has been elected for the post and you have to submit documents to legitimize it. The other candidates that we have submitted serve only for this purpose, to legitimize the choice. If I were them, I'd give up this shameful procedure, at least because it's corrupted. Ladies and gentlemen, we can and will choose this governor you asked for, but what happens next? The elected unlegitimate new governor will point out his own sub-governments, they will work out, issue decisions, manage Oversight, conduct stress tests, take or take license decisions, manage national currency reserves, print money, banderols, election ballots and protocols. Until when? Until the moment of truth. And when a complaint to the Constitutional Court is dealt with and it turns out that the National Assembly has chosen perhaps an illegitimate governor and everyone below it, including their decisions, are illegal, do we realize what disaster this means for the entire banking system? The decisions made are illegal, chaos and, above all, the need for some responsibility to be borne. But pay attention, at least one month from the court's ruling, the banking system will not have any leadership, because legitimately, there is no way in one or two days to choose. And by putting at least one or two theoretical attempts at this period of deliberate bankruptcy, criminal attacks similar to those of last summer, who will act with what powers? Note, there was a legitimate guide back then. And you know the score. Can we imagine what disastrous consequences our actions and procedures today could have had that are not in line with the Constitution? What time bomb are we pawning ourselves? Do we think Europe is unaware? Do we think that German Chancellor Merkel, French President Holland, the English Prime Minister, will not be informed by the ambassadors of what is happening in our country? Here, before me, there is a request to establish unconstitutionality and under it is only my signature. When we voted in this House the first time, we were supported and thanked by all the political forces. This was not a political decision, but, in principle, constitutionally, we were supported by 65 people. The second time the result was 77:77. Should I check 47 of those 77 people who supported us, see if they'll sign the constitutional complaint? The result will be clear. Honourable Members, let us leave the government for a policy that has been conducted by us that has not, for example, been approved or has not happened. Let this not be due to preconfidence or the fact that we have broken the basic law of the state, the Constitution, and the problems that have occurred subsequently and as a result of our actions. We still have, even under the current BNB Act, 45 days to choose a legitimate and legally elected governor, whatever his name is! It's an easy way out. An item is placed on the agenda for the election of the Governor of BNB, a procedure with the possibility that every MP, as is under the Constitution, honourable Members, may propose a candidate. And, of course, the three points... With the content of the concept that is about governance, he must be able to show and convince us that it is the worthy man to govern and be burdened with the responsibility that we assign to him. Seven days later, the candidates were submitted, the Commission listened to them, the plenary voted them and we have a legitimate governor who can be named Radev again, for example, and be the nomination of any political power, no matter what, but be legitimate and legal. One week won't slow you down. We are on the verge of deciding whether we have the necessary effort, opportunity, courage and determination to be late for a week and whether it separates us from the rule of law and a constitutionally elected governor. The alternative is unjustified risk, choice of stubbornness, preconfidence and possibility of bank chaos. I would like to draw attention to the esteemed colleagues of GERB "You have appeared legally in the elections, Mr. Borisov has won the elections, there is a majority, he is legally elected prime minister and he is entitled to be entrusted with these responsibilities and obligations, which he has and legally fulfils them. Do we need someone else who will have almost equal powers, skip the procedure or make up a special one for him?! There are days in our work when it is not enough to be just politicians, it is not enough to be MPs. There are days when we have to make important decisions that depend on the future of all those who have sent us here. The choice is in front of you, and you will decide, and your mandate is yours. But our proposal is to use these seven days of our due 45 and make a legitimate choice as governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u21	Moving on to point one of the program: HEARING OF THE MANUFACTURE AND CONVERSATION OF THE KEWR WITH REGARD TO THE PENSION MODELS USED BY THE KEWR IN THE EXAMINATION OF THE LAWS OF THE ENERGY LAW, AS AND REGULATION No 1 FOR THE REGULATION OF THE CENTRES OF THE EL. Energy. Mr. Iankov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! In connection with the beginning of work on the first point of the Program of the National Assembly "Listening to the leadership and composition of the KEWRC on the pricing model, I propose to invite the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova to attend because it is from the executive authority responsible for the sector, all the more so that the use of the model of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation is based on a procedure in which the companies of the National Electricity Company, Energostheme Operator, the three ERPs of EVN, CEZ and ENSE-PRO. Two of the companies are directly subordinate as the principal of Temenuzhka Petkova. My procedure is to invite the Minister of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u23	Mr. Iankov, there are no obstacles to inviting the Minister, but I do not see how he will participate in the procedure, which is specifically scheduled. There is no possibility even to take up or ask questions, as there is no written proposal on the respective order of hearing of the Minister. So her invitation to be here...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u24	Let him hear the arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u25	You wish to attend only to hear the arguments and those that will develop in the procedure to come. Thank you. Now I'll invite the minister. Mr. Delyan Dobrev, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, Alexander Yanakiev Yordanov, Valentin Dimitrov Petkov, Vladko Genchov Vladimirov, Georgi Tonev Zlatev, Dimitar Georgiev Kochkov, Evgenia Hristova Haritonova, Remzi Durmush Osman, Svetla Petrova Todorova, all members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber of Directors and the composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. 130 MPs voted: 129 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the Commission's leadership and composition. Procedure Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, procedure by Mr. Kirilov. On the move you specify that you are likely to have similar procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, given the public interest and the importance of the problem discussed, I propose a procedure, Madam President, that you vote on the debates to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u29	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for the direct broadcast of the debate on point one of our programme today. Vote 127 MPs: 120 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones. We move on to the hearing, which is a procedure developed in art. 110 of our Rules. I'm reminiscing. 2: When the National Assembly proceed to the hearing, the rapporteur of the proposal for a hearing shall make a presentation of the questions within five minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within ten minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within two minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to express their views on the answers of the persons heard within five minutes of asking all questions. Since the request for a hearing is a collective body such as the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the expectations are that the response on behalf of the Commission will be given by its head Mr. Ivanov, after which the MPs will be able to ask two questions from a parliamentary group to whom the members of the Commission or the management wish. Anyone to whom a question has been addressed will respond promptly after the question has been raised. In the end, the parliamentary groups on the already established tradition, in view of the number and size of the groups, will have the opportunity to express their attitude towards the persons heard. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Delyan Dobrev will introduce us with the request for a hearing. Five minutes, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! In the Forty-third National Assembly, just a few months ago, at the end of February, we changed the Energy Act, with which, in addition to reforms in legislation and the positive effects sought on the deficit reduction in energy, we also voted on the election of the regulator from the National Assembly. There were more than enough candidates to be heard. Subsequently, in plenary, we elected a composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, with representatives of almost all parliamentary groups represented, without any of them having the upper hand in the Commission. Even two or three parliamentary groups cannot form dominance in the Commission. This initiative was launched at the 40th National Assembly, but, unfortunately, with the resignation of the government and the respective termination of the mandate of the 40th National Assembly, we could not bring it to the end. At the 40th National Assembly, we made an attempt, but then the ruling majority rejected this idea. In the forty-three it became a fact and we chose an independent regulator. With this choice of independent regulator we can be proud because units of countries in the European Union choose their regulatory bodies from parliament. In most countries, the regulator for energy and water regulation is elected by the Council of Ministers, as it was in Bulgaria until the last changes in the Energy Act. There are even cases where the regulator is appointed by the Minister of Energy or appointed by the President of the State. Bulgaria is one of the few countries in which the regulator is elected by the National Assembly to ensure its independence. With this we can all be proud and this professional regulator in the last few months has shown that it is doing its work impartially and professionally, for which we can only congratulate them. I'm doing this introduction to show that right here and maybe right now is the time and place for us to do a hearing on his activities. We have chosen it, we are responsible for the decisions of this regulator and we have the right to ask questions to the regulator without interfering with its activities and without any way to impose certain policies or decisions on the regulator. This hearing has two main reasons: the first is the high public interest. The society in the last few weeks has been excited by the proposed initial decisions of the regulator for changes in electricity prices and although they are within 1 to 2% for bits or within the annual inflation expected for this year, the effect on business is slightly greater. The pricing model is different, in my opinion, much fairer, but this information is still not sufficiently clear in society, although the Commission, by law, holds open and closed meetings. The open meetings may be attended by all, including media, and they are not one or two. The minutes shall be public and shall be published on the website. With legislation, we have tried to make the maximum public aware of the decisions of the regulator and of its actions. However, the National Assembly stands and the direct broadcast on BNT and BNR will ensure that a maximum number of people are familiar with what is happening in the Commission. The second reason for today's hearing is the government's stated intentions just a week ago for state energy reforms, for reducing administrative expenditure....................................................................................that we are all convinced that it should be done....................................................................................................................................................... And thirdly, in the final adoption of the regulation with which business will be relieved by the burden of green energy, according to the guidelines of the European Commission, which enable such reliefs, which the regulation is not yet a fact, but within the next few weeks will become a fact, and I hope it will also be notified by the European Commission so that it can enter into force. In view of these two reasons, I think we have submitted the proposal for a hearing of the regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. In response to the questions asked, the answer is the Commission President Mr. Ivan Ivanov. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with the procedure adopted, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is before you today, the MPs who chose the regulator in this composition. The fact that there is a broad public debate on pricing and price model, as well as at the set prices for the new regulatory period, which are really only as a project, requires undeniably information to the Bulgarian society. For me, there is no higher tribune than that of the National Assembly to hear all the arguments that the Commission has led in making decisions on heat and electricity prices. What Mr. Dobrev said is true. At the beginning of this year the Bulgarian energy sector was in an extremely severe crisis 2015 is the last year and the last chance to implement significant reforms in energy, if we want it to stabilize financially, to serve the population and business in a stable way, with predictable prices and predictable quantities, to enter the liberalized electricity market from the beginning of 2016. It is a commitment that Bulgaria has undertaken before the European Commission and I believe we are able to implement it. The adoption of the amendments to the Energy Act of 6 March 2015 was the first step that allowed the reforms in the Bulgarian energy sector to begin. They were in a few directions. The first of these is related to limiting the purchase of electricity from thermal and plant power plants, with the purchase of only the high-efficiency electricity that is carried out in a combined manner. The remaining amount of these plants must be realised on the free market. The second essential prerequisite for reforms was the fact that in the same amendments to the Law it is explicitly noted that Bulgaria as a member of the European Union will benefit from the Single Platform for the sale of carbon emissions and the funds that are collected will go directly through the Ministry of Energy in the company, the public supplier who suffers the greatest damage from the promotion of renewable energy sources. The decisions proposed by the regulator and which were actually taken unanimously by the regulatory authority must be the next step towards reform of the Bulgarian energy sector. The fact that the government firmly states the intention to find additional reserves to allow the proposed electricity prices to be reduced, we believe that it is a really new and essential circumstance. It requires that this debate be held in the Chamber of the National Assembly and perhaps a decision be taken by the Chamber of the National Assembly, then by the end of the week the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission at its meeting will take its decision as an independent regulatory authority. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Moving on to the first round of questions. By the size of the parliamentary groups of GERB, the first question will be asked by Mr. Delyan Dobrev. I recommend that you point directly to a particular member if you ask the question. If there is no roll call, I will assume that the question is addressed to Mr. Ivanov. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u34	The question is to Mr. Ivanov. Dear Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, my question to you is: what are the changes in the pricing model proposed and adopted, in the process of adoption by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in 2015, compared to the models used in the past? Please explain to the MPs and the Bulgarian society how you allocate the burden of our obligations under European Commission legislation, green energy, high-efficiency cogeneration and whether this new distribution of burdens between the free and regulated markets achieves greater justice and not only achieves greater justice, but also ensures that there will be a level playing field between one and the other market and takes a step towards market liberalisation? One question about the model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u35	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Ivanov, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dobrev, the question is extremely important because it allows to show what is the difference between the price model used so far and what we offer as a price model in the next regulatory period. You have noted for a reason that an essential feature that we are seeking to realise is the introduction of greater fairness in pricing, greater justice in tariff policy. And that justice, except through the direct price of electricity, must be introduced through the obligation to society. I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that after 2 November, when the Bulgarian Electricity Exchange on the platform will start working, there will be an additional "obligation" to society, which must be universal, with the exception of legal or regulatory amendments or restrictions. This addition in the current price model was extremely unevenly distributed. The Bulgarian domestic consumers and the Bulgarian small business, which was on the regulated market, were victims. They paid an additional debt to the society............................................................................................. At the same time, those who went out on the free market paid an add-on and continue to pay because they did not complete the regulatory period, only 19 BGN. What he has made as a decision and wants to be a Project of the decision on prices, currently the current composition of the regulator, is the creation of a single added obligation to the society of 40 BGN. at a megawatt hour. I am immediately making the clarification, because it is extremely important that the European directives give the opportunity through a regulation which is currently being prepared, the energy-intensive manufacturing companies in the Bulgarian industry and I stress the production companies in the Bulgarian industry can benefit from reducing the reduction of this supplement, which will reduce the change in the price of about 1%. Why would there be such a change anyway? Because the addition to society is formed by three sectors in Bulgarian energy, which are at preferential prices. Undoubtedly with the greatest weight these are renewable energy sources and the electricity produced by them, secondly, these are the two privatized plants in the Marishka Basin, and thirdly, this is the cohesion in the Bulgarian thermal and plant plants. The European Directive only authorises reduction of the green energy additive, and it reduces it in such a way that the large manufacturing companies of the Bulgarian industry pay only 15% of the amount of this supplement. This is the first major change in our new price model. We will comply with the Regulation and the model then will be both fair not only for our entire society, but fair in terms of this part of the Bulgarian industry, which has a serious investment in the final product of electricity and in accordance with the tendency to preserve jobs and the importance of this part of the industry. I would also like to make a second major change for me. Until the end of this regulatory period, the so-called costs which had to be covered by the three electricity distribution companies and the national electricity system operator were covered by electricity produced by the nuclear power plant Kozloduy, at a price of BGN 30. the megawatt hours and during NEK were directed to the three ERPs and to the ESOs. This created the feeling that if some of this energy is outside the necessary technological costs, it can be realised even in violation of the Free Sale Act of 70. 75 BGN. In the new price model, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has also introduced on these quantities of electricity an obligation towards society and this is in line with the Energy Act. Thus, the price of energy, which compensates technological losses, is virtually equal to the market price, it becomes BGN 70. It is only from this action that an additional 160 million will take place in NEK as a public supplier. BGN, which is a significant contribution to its exit from the financial hole in which it was located. I take this opportunity to say that, along with other measures, for which there will probably be questions to me and to my colleagues, the National Electricity Company will come to profit at the end of the regulatory period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a question from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Bojinov will ask the first question on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u38	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Ivanov! The competent authority has carried out a regulatory audit for the previous five years of undertakings holding a licence for the activity There have been serious infringements and very serious deviations from licensing obligations. After the adoption of the audit, acts have been written for established administrative infringements which have been served. Penal decrees are written on the basis of the acts. The signatures, I stress, the signed penal decrees have been served. The number of acts does not coincide with the number of penal decrees signed. I will not comment here on this fact, nor will I comment on who and in whose interests has not signed a number of penal decrees. My question to you, Mr. Ivanov, is this: did you, as chairman of the KEWRC, issue an order, appoint a working group to conduct a legal analysis based on the accepted audit reports for the examination of systemicity, significance and re-establishment of violations? You know exactly what that means. My question is yes or no? Did you give such an order or not, and if not, why? My question goes on, Mr. Chairman, in the following direction. When you worked on electricity prices, which are of great public interest and importance, did you have in mind the conclusions and findings in these three audit reports, because what they say is intolerable and unacceptable, and it cannot be taken as a given from which you can determine prices? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u39	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. For an answer, the President of the Commission Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, you asked for a yes or no answer. No, I have not signed such an order because the conclusions of the three audit reports are quite comprehensive and, in its previous composition, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has issued penal decrees, administrative sanctions regulations. I sign the Commission's opinions, the posting of persons in the three main areas of Bulgaria for the judicial cases which lead against the regulator both CEZ and EVN and Energo-Pro, which challenge the criminal decrees, but the Commission, defending its position, protects the public interest. After this opportunity is exhausted, Mr. Bojinov, be assured that the Commission will take action to further protect the public interest. Since we are also discussing the issue of the new price model.. within the framework of the new price model we are extremely strict, I would say we are extremely restrictive with regard to the demands of electricity distribution companies. This can be established by our report, it can also be established by the draft decision that we have set up. Real electricity distribution companies must for the first time make a much greater contribution of funds to the public supplier NEK. I believe that the regulator has indeed acted impartially, independently, protecting the public interest not only in terms of electricity companies, but also in relation to all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We continue with the next question from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Ramadan Atalay, please ask your question to the chairman of the KEWRC Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov, your presence in the Chamber today is seen as an attempt by the National Assembly to give you another tribune so that you can explain and explain to the public, to the MPs, including the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers how and how you chose the model on which you set the electricity prices. We do not accept the attempt to intervene the executive in your work. My first sentence today, I begin by saying that it is the duty of the National Assembly and of all institutions to restore confidence in your institution, if we want from now on everything that is happening in the field of energy to be adopted normally. We can talk long and wide about the model, we can talk about everything that is happening in relation to the price period, but my question will be precise and clear, Mr. Ivanov. Do we need additional guarantees for the independence of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to tell us what will change the situation for business, domestic consumers and the NEK deficit with the model you have adopted? If you find precise words and explain to the public, to the business, including all manufacturing enterprises what you are aiming at with this model, if you are guaranteed independence, then we will have achieved the goal for which we are gathered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, your speech reminds us of a great goal which, I believe, today's composition of the regulator has set itself to restore the trust of the Bulgarian society in the decisions taken by the regulatory authority. In order to achieve this, in every action of ours, in each decision, we are guided by the principles that were laid down by the change in the Law of 6 March this year - independence, impartiality, professionalism, integrity, consistency, publicity and transparency. These seven principles, I assure you, honourable Members, the regulator has stood for the third month. At any given moment, each of you can get acquainted with the decisions. If he is looking for a meeting on the problems of the regulator, he can always be welcomed and have a conversation. At the same time, I strongly state that the reports that have been drawn up and they are in a volume of over 800 pages have only been prepared by regulatory experts and subsequently examined, discussed and approved by the Commission. There was no external interference, even less political, in the work of the independent regulator. I declare it to you and I guarantee it will be as long as this composition functions as the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I would like this to be heard clearly by all colleagues because any attempt at political interference in the activities of the regulator is counterproductive to both the regulator and those who do so. Mr. Atalay, as far as the changes that are taking place through our Price Solution Project are concerned, some of them have already been dealt with in the justice of our decisions. You are focusing on something that I will specifically focus on.... what will be the financial situation of NEK and in what financial situation did we find NEK when we took over the functions of regulator? Dear Members of Parliament, NEK has indeed been and is still in extremely difficult financial condition. I say this in a firm way to warn that the delay in the reform will lead to the further sinking of NEK, which will eventually end with its bankruptcy, which will be of serious harm not only to energy but to the Bulgarian society. We have found NEK with the following parameters: long-term old liabilities over 3 billion. 300 million. BGN, of which: 1 billion 300 million. lv. because of the costs of the unrealized project "Belene"; about 1 billion on the repeatedly appreciated project "Tsankov Stone"; liabilities to various energy companies "3 billion total." 300 million. lv. In the last 2014 alone, NEC has accumulated a current deficit of 644 million. lv. What did the regulator do with the new decision project? First of all, on the basis of the amendments to the Law of 6 March this year, we have completely changed the policy regarding the purchase of electricity from the factory heating plants. According to NEK's report, last year's purchased electricity is worth 650 million. lv. In our proposal for a price decision is now 500 million. That's 150 million saved on NEK. 130 of them for not buying more energy, which is not highly efficient or not produced in a combined way, together with this, 20 million so far. We're still looking for additional reserves. In this energy sector, it is saved by the fact that some of the heating plants have declared larger quantities for heat, respectively highly efficient electricity than that which they actually consume or need. As an emergency task, we have literally placed until today, tomorrow, to present evidence, contracts that show how much heat is used by these plants. Secondly, NEK will be cured by the serious rise in funds from European carbon emission allowance trading. Almost daily we monitor what Bulgaria offers on the European market of these quotas and what I can tell you from yesterday is that Bulgaria has been making revenue of 54 million since the beginning of the year. EUR for the allowances sold by the end of the year is expected not less than 60 million. euros even more. In fact, we have put in place revenues to be made in NEK, because this requires the change in the Energy Act and with the Cross-border and Final Provisions in the Air Cleanliness Act to take place precisely in the public supplier, who most severely loses from the fact that Bulgaria is realized, in accordance with the European rules, encouraging measures for renewable sources and the production of energy from renewable sources. NEK will also receive revenue from this.. 325 million. lv. Finally, since the introduction of the add-on to society commitment as it has been introduced so far, and the coverage of the technological costs of this supplement, NEC has increased its revenues from selling energy worth 346 million levs. In general, the calculations show that NEK, in terms of last year, will save a total cost of 702 million. BGN, which exceeds those 644 million. lv. deficit last year. That is, we are definitely expecting that in a reasonable and competent management of the National Electricity Company and compliance with the parameters of the NEK model itself will come to profit at the end of the regulatory period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u45	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next question... [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay spoke with the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mr. Ivan Ivanov.]] Mr. Ivanov, please pay attention to me! Since you do not have an answer limit under the rules, I cannot put one on you, but I ask you still to stick within 2-3 minutes and still really concentrate on answering specific questions. With the second question, you will be able to take this answer as well. The Reformation Block Group, only for a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u46	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to remind you of art. 143 of our Rules of Procedure, which states that when legislation, speech or vote is tabled, the public representative with a private interest in the issue discussed is obliged to declare it. I say this in view of the fact that in the media space there are some information that about 20% of the MPs have serious interests in the Bulgarian energy sector. I would like to remind you not to miss to declare this, because otherwise the Committee on Conflict of Interest needs to be referred to itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. This is not a procedure that we need to vote on. More like a reminder. Just to remind you that in fact the declaration of private interest is also done in a vote. We are continuing with a question on behalf of the Reformation Block. Mr. Martin Dimitrov, you have two minutes to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u48	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! My question is to Mrs. Svetla Todorova, who is the only economist in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Representatives of the government, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Energy, have made a public commitment to all of us that even in one month they will take a serious reduction in administrative expenditure - 10% of all state energy in 2015 and 10% more in 2016. If the two measures are implemented before July 2016, this will mean a 20% reduction in the administrative costs of state energy. In addition, the State Financial Inspection Agency (ADFI) was committed to checking all companies over one megawatt. This we have given it as a legal opportunity of investment costs so as to see whether the rate of profitability that has been voted on is being implemented and there is no payment of amounts that should not be paid following the adoption of group decisions on the investments made without a lack of verification of the individual ones made. So my question to you is as follows: in this firm commitment of the government, do you think that there is a reason for the decision of the independent KEWRC to be postponed by one month, and why not, if the cabinet fails to handle it within this period, and more time to allow the government to solve these problems on the basis of both the mandate and the legal changes that we have made as changes to the Energy Act, so that the model on which the KEWRC is working is another one with less costs of state energy, with less costs and for sectors in the background of the checks that ADFI is making? Do you think there is reason for delaying the price decision? I'm asking you as an economist who, following economic logic, should give the specific answer, would I say even more than a month if it wasn't enough for the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u49	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Please order the Commissioner to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be perfectly specific. Any delay in the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation will result in additional costs in the system, which must then be compensated. At the moment, if prices currently in operation continue to be applied, it will mean continuing the accumulation of a deficit in the system and should therefore be compensated in subsequent periods. I can't tell if it has to be postponed by a month or not. This is a matter that will be resolved by the Commission. I would like to emphasise that I am not the only economist in the Commission, there are other members with such education. On the other hand, it is clear that the reforms that are being undertaken are difficult. It is clear that business must bear some burden which has not been foreseen by these undertakings so far. So it's not an easy question. It really is a matter of balance, but if there are real reforms, let them be real. Let things happen that are real and then make sense of the delay with this one month. If nothing is done, if you just give some time to change things between the different market participants, then I think it is not a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u51	Thank you for the Commissioner's reply. We proceed to the next issue in the order of the size of the parliamentary groups Mr. Iskren Veselinov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Come to the stand to ask your question. Will it be to a specific Commissioner or to the President?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u52	It'll be for the chairman. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, for us from the Patriotic Front, reform is not just a matter of price. The reform and, in particular, the independence of the Commission, which we have regulated in the previous Law, aimed primarily at making the Commission truly independent in terms of making these decisions, which it is yet to make in relation to the bad decisions inherited from different governments and governments, which, after all, with the long-term treaties, are the great evil of Bulgarian energy, enslaving the population to pay some not too fair electricity prices. My question relates to a provision in the Energy Act, according to which the KEWRC exercises control, analyses, periodically examines and is entitled to request an amendment and supplement of the pricing mechanisms laid down in the long-term contracts. This happens when they are concluded contrary to European Union law or European Union policies, respectively. In Bulgarian energy, as is known, there are many such contracts. Bright examples of them are for example the two TPPs in Maritsa 1 (Maritsa 1) and Maritsa 3 (Maritsa 3) to which we pay over BGN billion annually and, as we see in their financial reports, report 430 million. lv. profit in total. There are a lot of other examples in both Heat and Zeleni power stations and so on. My question, in fact,.. and this is largely our expectations of the Commission in the coming months, how it fulfils its obligations under art. 21, para. 1, t. 6 of the Energy Act, i.e. are such analyses being carried out, is such control being carried out, is the law and, accordingly, the European Union's policies being followed, and do they provide for such measures to lead to a change in the long-term contracts, which I think the whole society expects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Ivanov, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, the Commission is involved in a dialogue with the European Commission on this issue. Since last year there has been a letter of inquiry to the European Commission. The reason is that in order to apply this text from the Energy Act, it is necessary for the European Commission as a competent authority to rule on the conformity or non-compliance of a contract with European law. After exchanging several letters involving the Commission with specific answers on specific issues that were subsequently asked by the European Commission, we are also waiting for the final reply of the European Commission. We will fully comply with the answer and take all the necessary measures resulting from this response. I would point out that this applies both to the correspondence held with regard to the two plants...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In every respect, when there is a violation of European law, we will be absolutely strict and we will carry out the rules of the law. However, as you know, we need to get the final answer from the European Commission. We're expecting him. There are some information that I cannot confirm that there will be an answer to at least one of our inquiries to the Commission as early as next July. Immediately, of course, we will inform the Bulgarian society about such an answer and the measures that we will take. You can count on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u55	Thanks for the answer, Mr. Ivanov. We continue with the next issue by the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr. Georgi Nedev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! My question relates to the Commission's attitude towards energy and water regulation towards extending the current regulatory period. He partly overlaps with Mr. Martin Dimitrov's, but I would like to ask Mr. Ivan Ivanov a question, suggesting that the answer be contained in one of the three hypotheses that I will expose. The first hypothesis: the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission insists on a one-month extension in order to take account of the changed circumstances before the final decision. Second hypothesis: the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will rather benefit from the extended deadline to improve its decision without significant changes. The third hypothesis: The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission does not prefer an extension from the point of view of the emerging monthly deficit in the National Electricity Company, which will further aggravate its situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u57	Thank you for the question in the form of a hypothesis. Here you are, Mr. Chairman of the KEWRC, to answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Nedev! You almost asked a question in the form of a test to choose one of the three options. The truth is this. The extension of the term of reference is, in the first place, the extension contains some benefits and some damage. The benefits would be more significant than the damage on a definite condition: if the measures taken, which were announced after the meeting with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, give the expected results. In this case, I believe that with regard to state-owned energy companies, there is a great responsibility for BEH, which should provide us with the amount of administrative costs allocated to state-owned energy companies. To an even greater extent, possible reports from the Agency for State Financial Inspection will have an impact which, if it reveals significant discrepancies between the signed contracts and the quantities of electricity which some renewable energy companies attach, then we will take appropriate measures. My informal information is that it is really working in the direction of detecting such violations, which may prove to be too serious. If these distortions are for a large amount of electricity, it will also have a serious impact on reducing the proposed electricity prices for businesses and, to a lesser extent, of course, for bits and bits. This can compensate for the possible damage I will call it from the extension of the regulatory period. Because the extension of the regulatory period on the one hand means the extension of the accumulation of deficit in NEK, the extension of the reforms in Bulgarian energy, the extension of the period in which we are still far from the liberalized market, and means the continuation of injustice in the responsibilities and burdens which the Bulgarian society must bear in relation to the obligation to society. And that's why my answer, hopefully to you, is largely conditional. We, because of the high public expectations, will discuss our decision in depth and detail due to the stated firm intention of the government, but this can only be done after the National Assembly has ruled on the transitional provision in the Energy Act which you are about to consider, and by your decision in a certain way we will rule a day later on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u59	And thank you for your answer. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. Mr. Volen Siderov has declared a wish. Please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I ask my point, I would like to say that until now I have not witnessed the more pathetic and helpless behaviour of a chairman of the Committee on Water and Energy Regulatory. Mr. Ivanov, first of all, stop making an essay out of this tribune. You so far in the so-called questions that have actually been asked, have used the time only to explain how independent you are and how much work you have done. You haven't done any work so far. Secondly, you are not independent because you yourself are descended from a political force which concluded precisely these contracts with US power plants. [[Applause by "Attacka"]] in 2001 and under these contracts now the Bulgarian state pays electricity ten times more than it costs. Stop fooling the public that NEK is in deficit because of Belene. They are long gone and Belene is long gone and Tsankov kamak is long in history. NEK is in debt and is in deficit because precisely the Bulgarian state in the face of your government, when you were part of this government and of Mr. Kostov's parliamentary group, then signed a contract with these plants, under which he undertook to buy expensive electricity. Then, in the management of GERB, mainly in the triple coalition and then in GERB, it was made so that the electricity of renewable energy is also bought at 10 times more expensive than it costs for example produced by the nuclear power plant. So NEK is in deep deficit because of today's colonial policy of several Bulgarian governments, part of which you were. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You are not an independent body, you are political appointments. In KEWRC there are currently representatives of all parliamentary forces, apart from the party "Attack" and this is a political formation, a political Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u61	Mr. Siderov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u62	My question is: why not use your powers under art. 21, para. 1 of the Energy Act, which gives you the right to request changes in pricing and a corresponding change in long-term contracts? Why don't you? Do not justify yourself with the European Commission, because you are now entitled to art. 101 of the Treaty of Accession of the States of the Union to cancel these contracts, as they contradict competition. You know that very well. Do not justify yourself with an answer you are waiting for from the European Commission. You could have done it by now, but you don't, because you are not really the Commission for Regulation, but the Commission for Colonial Governance of Bulgaria. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u63	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Siderov, I will not take any part in the historical flashback that you have made, and I will not go into a historical flashback for you. What I would like to say to you, honourable Members, is that in all my actions from the first day until now, and so it will be in the future, as President of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I have used the principles that I have just listed. The first and most important is the independence of the energy regulator. My colleagues from the Commission can confirm that there was no political element in any action or speech. This, of course, does not prevent political spells from being cast on my behalf by the National Assembly's stand. As for the text that you quoted, I have already replied: the regulator is not empowered to rule on compliance with European legislation. The authority issuing and whose opinion will enable the regulator to review the contracts, not only those I mentioned to you, and including renewable energy sources, is the European Commission. If she answers that illegal State aid is involved, we will react immediately. This is the second time I have said this to all of you as a second answer to a question of similar content. The same will be done in all cases when the Bulgarian laws are broken. That is why, awaiting the results of the investigation, which makes the Agency for State Financial Inspection, in the event of found discrepancies and violations of the Bulgarian legislation, we will rule immediately next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The ABB Parliamentary Group is next. Mr. Kiril Tsochev has the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners of the Energy and Water Regulatory Committee, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, according to art. 31, t. 7 of the Energy Act when setting prices, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory is guided by the principle of, I quote: Article 35, para. 5 makes it clear that, I quote, the way to compensate for the costs arising from public obligations is determined by the Commission's methodology for the distribution of these costs transparently among all end customers, including those using electricity from imports. My question to you, Mr. Ivanov, is: are these costs distributed fairly between consumers of the regulated and free market, according to the Commission's price decision on energy and water regulation, and is there a risk that preferences for large electricity consumers will be paid by consumers of low voltage and households? Before I hear the answer to my question, I would like to declare from this high tribune, because in recent times in the media it is being published that only "Attack" do not have representatives, I declare that we have deliberately not proposed our candidates and in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission ABB has no candidates of its own.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u67	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsochev, your question directly corresponds to the second part of Mr. Ramadan Atalay's question and I will use the case to respond fully to both, albeit in a very short time. Historical injustice has been accumulated with regard to burdens to compensate for the cost of preferential prices in these three sectors. You mentioned them in order. It happens that with the decision of the regulator, which I will eventually make for the next regulatory period, this injustice is eliminated. Some claim that in fact the business takes on a very large part of the added obligation to society and almost as sea sirens whisper that the price of domestic consumers should be increased. I definitely disagree. First, if we look within 12 months at how prices for domestic consumers have been changed, you will see that from 1 July last year they were increased by 2.5%, from 1 October, last year, by another 10% and what we offer is about 15%. I'd like to point that out. And it is precisely by virtue of the principle of justice that we cannot categorically adopt a decision that would damage domestic consumers in the new price period. As regards the distribution itself, the European directives explicitly note this segment of business, which must have a reduction in this supplement. I have already said, these are the production companies in whose final product the price of electricity is more than 10% and it is in certain sectors of the industry. The rest of the business must also assume its responsibility for even distribution of the weights, and there are different villa settlements, closed residential complexes, malls, there are also different administrations, municipal, district and national. I firmly believe that the model proposed by us is actually the fair model. As regards the second part of your question, I will immediately point out that it is within the next month that the small business will be burdened by the fact that the business, which is energy-intensive and which will have a serious reduction in the demand for public debt, will immediately point out that it is within the next month that, in the event of new material circumstances already taking place and additional reserves found, we will endeavour in a certain way, which will be written in the final text of the regulation, to reduce the burden of this part of the business, both middle and small, in so far as it has come out of the free market. We will respect the principle of justice, be assured! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The following are colleagues who are not members of a parliamentary group. I'll just remind you that you all have one question in total in two minutes. Mr. Enchev will obviously take this opportunity. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u70	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! Before I ask you the question, let me give you some information that you may or may not have forgotten. On 22 January 2013, the Albanian government revoked CEZ's license after Albania was plunged into darkness after a series of blackouts of electricity and water supply. Then CEZ claimed this was due to unpaid accounts by Albanian consumers, but later it turned out that it was a lack of commitments, more precisely unfulfilled commitments by CEZ to invest serious funds in the infrastructure of Albanian electricity distribution. On 24 June 2013, CEZ concluded an out-of-court agreement with the Albanian government, with the government obliged to grant a 102m compensation. euros in annual contributions by 2018 and thus the dispute between CEZ and the Albanian government was ended. Albania has regained its ownership of electricity distribution companies. Given that in 2009, CEZ bought 75% of Albania's ERPs for 102 million. euros, you could say that the Albanian state came out very well of this unfavorable deal for it. In short, by 2016, the Albanian government will be able to repay its obligation to CEZ in annual instalments and will own the electricity distribution network in Albania after 2016. My question to you, Mr. Ivanov, is as follows: do you approve of such an approach of the Albanian state and under certain circumstances if the three electricity distribution companies in Bulgaria afford such behaviour in breach of the contracts, will you undertake such a procedure? That's the first question. The second question for you. Again, I remind you of something our colleagues must have forgotten. On 30 June 2014 the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission was in the administration of Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski [[the President signals that time has run out]] , was subjected to serious pressure by the ambassadors of seven countries - these are the US, Great Britain, France, Japan, Czech Republic, South Korea and Austria - because of the intention to reduce the prices of the purchased electricity from TPP 1 and TPP 3 - the two US temes. Have you been subjected to such pressure by foreign ambassadors since you took up this post? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u71	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Ivanov, you can answer combined, although there were more than one questions. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u72	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! A previous composition of the regulator, led by Mr. Boyan Boev, ruled with a request for the revocation of the license of the three electricity distribution companies. Evidence of non-compliance with the basic provisions of the licence was subsequently requested where the licence could be revoked. This composition of the regulator could not prove the need to withdraw the licence. Those are the facts, and that's why I'm enumerating them. What was done by the next composition of the regulator was to make criminal decrees against all violations committed by the three electricity distribution companies. There are four of them, but the fourth one is not mentioned, it is ERP Golden Sands. To your question, whether, in the case of a situation that was in Albania, I would take or act in the same way, I would respond directly, if it were to rule that one of the three ERPs violates the licence in an unacceptable way and scheduled conditions for the withdrawal of the licence, the regulator will implement this decision immediately. I cannot take away foreign rights, on the one hand as a regulator, on the other, when there are no clear violations that fall within this particular column on the withdrawal of the licence. The rest that is sanctioned by the regulator is related to violations for which we file claims and pronounce ourselves with criminal decrees and corresponding fines. Mr. Enchev, did you have another question?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u73	That's enough, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u75	That concludes the first round of questions. Moving on to the second round of questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB party Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivanov, honourable Commission! Personally, I believe that the approach adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly is absolutely wrong, first of all, for the election of a committee to be chosen by this National Assembly, which will thus guarantee independence with the mandates it has, and second of all, the model that you have chosen and based on the changes to the Energy Act that took place in February this year, with the termination of the mandatory buying-in of the energy that produce the heat efficiencys, with the plant plants, ending the further preferential prices that must be given to future renewable sources. Not to list all these measures that we have taken, thank God, with consensus from the entire National Assembly, and which have given some basis, so that the price does not fly very far. Unfortunately, in previous compositions of the SEWRC such conditions were created that the system lost its liquidity, began to accumulate deficits. This inevitably reflects on the investment and repair programmes of companies. They were deprived of a lot of financial opportunities so that they could implement these programs, which began to give rise to great fear in general for the entire energy sector in Bulgaria. I believe that the model that is currently chosen is very good in terms of stopping the accumulation of future deficits. Of course, the compensation for the old deficits is not, I would say, fairly put, but that is correct, because then the price for consumers would have increased many times. I think that business, as well as all domestic consumers, other than taking some kind of increase in the price of electricity, would cause them a bigger problem if... They know this model is unstable. My question to you is: is this model sustainable and ensures that the price that is now accepted for everyone will be able to continue its size and in subsequent regulatory periods possibly with an increase in inflation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. To answer Mr. Ivanov's question, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Nikolov! Before answering your question about the comment you made on the price model, I would like to inform you that yesterday was held an energy conference organized by the Bulgarian Energy Miniforum with the participation of almost all major Bulgarian energy experts. All energy experts up to one supported the model, saying that this is the first model that has really been made entirely professionally, without any political intervention and in full consistency between the reports that have been drawn up, which analyse the state of all energy through individual energy companies, and the draft solutions. Because, as they explained, in the previous regulatory periods, reports are being produced by experts in a kind, after which the Commission voted on some very other decisions, which are clearly under some external pressure. The Commission is not subject to external pressure, I will not bend, I will defend this model. It is indeed sustainable because it rests on clear principles that I have already said just now, and they must be preserved. Regarding the future of our activity, let us not forget that after the introduction of the electricity exchange in the country the regulator itself will be free of one of its functions to determine the price of electricity, but its role will continue to be important for determining the supplement obligation to society and the distribution of individual segments in this supplement, as well as, of course, the definition of the part of the industry that will be of reduced value of the supplement. The regulator will continue to determine the prices of network services. These are the prices for access and transmission to electricity and electricity distribution networks. In both cases, we will continue in a completely principled way to carry out our duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There is a question from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, come in, you have the floor to ask the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mr. Ivanov. The issue has already been addressed, but I will now try to be a little more specific. Dear Mr. Ivanov, on 20 June 2014, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission filed a complaint with the European Commission concerning non-compliance with European Union law. The purpose of the complaint is the long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity from the Maritsa East 1 The reason for the complaint is that long-term buy-in agreements do not meet the criteria laid down in art. 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In general, the State aid element consists of the obligation of the National Electricity Company to purchase a guaranteed amount of electricity, and it, notice, at a price covering the variables, mainly variable and capital costs of these companies. Companies are guaranteed a high rate of return and all risks are transferred to the National Electricity Company. The mechanism provided for for pricing and guaranteed buying-in of electricity also contradicts the principles of the Third Energy Package, which must ensure the elimination of barriers to competition in the energy market. The new regulatory period provides for the impact of the energy purchased by these power plants in significant volumes. It is planned to buy electricity for 490 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. It's from the Maritsa East 3th. Colleagues, that's a total of over 920 million. lv. The cumulative relative burden of the two US plants on the fee liabilities to the society of BGN 40 is around BGN 10 in total. Ten leva of this fee is formed on the basis of mandatory contracts for buying energy. My specific question to you, Mr. Ivanov, regarding the extreme influence of these long-term contracts on the model and price of the regulated market is: what is your opinion? Do you maintain the allegations in the complaint to the European Commission of the former Head of the State Commission on the alleged State aid procedure? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] ? What is the concrete effect of the widely proclaimed agreement between the government of Mr. Boyko Borisov and Minister Petkova with these US power plants on the upcoming price model and does it include the future credit that needs to be withdrawn? Mr. Ivanov, we did not understand whether the procedure for withdrawing the license of the power supply and energy supply companies was terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u81	How many questions are there, Mr. Boychev? Choose one question to answer Mr. Ivanov. I didn't count them, but I think they're not less than three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u82	I asked very clearly: what is the attitude towards long-term contracts and what is the impact of Minister Petkova's signed agreement on the upcoming price model?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u83	Thank you for your clarification. For an answer, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u84	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Boychev! I also congratulate Minister Petkova, who is in the Chamber, even more so, her name has been mentioned in the question. To the first part of the question, I have given a number of very comprehensive answers, and it is that the Commission is not a body which decides on compliance with European legislation. We are in an active dialogue with the European Commission, and after the last letter with comprehensive answers given by the Ministry of Energy, three of which were addressed to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we expect the final decision of the European Commission, of the Directorate of Energy. That's all I can say. I'm going straight to the second part of the question that's important, and I want to focus on it. Unlike everything that happened before, when the treaties were criticised, but nothing was being done as a result of active negotiations held with the owners of the "AES Maritsa East 1" and "Contur Global Maritsa East 3" at the beginning of April, it seems to me on 6 April that additional agreements were signed with the two power plants. They predict a reduction in the price of the available energy for the Maritsa East by 14% and a decrease in the same price for the Contur Global Maritsa East by 17%. The financial effect of the additional agreements thus signed is 49 million. lv. Saved by NEK in respect of Maritsa East 3 and 48 million lv. in respect of the Maritsa East 1 Therefore, during a single regulatory period, NEK's energy costs from the two US power plants were reduced by 97, by almost 100 million. lv. Within a 10-year period when the long-term purchase will run, NEK's savings will amount to about 1 billion. lv. I would like to point out that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has received Annex No 9. The first of the two agreements -- this with the AES Maritsa East 1 -- we only approved two days ago -- on Monday. In this way we give the green light for the financial finalisation of the agreement. We will also do the same with the supplementary agreement with "Contour Global Maritsa East 3." This is a real action that reduces the burden of long-term contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u85	There is now a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Ramadan Atalay is preparing to ask his second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, thank you for trying to answer the first part of my first question, because in the second part related to NEK, you have made an extensive clarification, for which I also thank you. On this issue, I expected you to say in percentage, even if not in percentage, how much will be the increase of BGN 18,93, how much will be the obligation to society from the business in 2000, 10 000 and 30 000 megawatts to be heard from the stands by how much the price for the business will be, depending on how much electricity it will use. Here's my second question. We've been discussing the model for a long time, Mr. Ivanov. I ask myself: is the model for regulating the price of electricity, the model that you have chosen, the right one? Is there another model that you can explain today that is more acceptable than this one right now? I also ask you the following question: is there political pressure on you to postpone the regulatory period, because suddenly you are very independent and it bothered me a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u87	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Ivanov, we're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Atalay, what the Commission should follow as a chronology requires, first of all, to see what reserves can be found further on the basis of those reserves that are currently being structured, to see to what extent the discount that can be made can be spread from the level of 30 gigawatts of electricity consumption per year from a company down to companies that have smaller annual consumption. I would like to point out immediately, and I will defend it in the Commission as well, that it is not related to business, because also the law firms that go out on the free market are part of the business, it is business, and only the production activity in certain sectors that are energy-intensive and this energy efficiency is proven with the participation of electricity as part of the cost of their final products. Manufacturing in the industry, energy-intensive! Therefore, I cannot give you specific values, but the Commission's experts are constantly working with all new incoming reserves. We really believe that we will be perfect in the price decision when it will be voted on and determined. On whether there are other models, yes, Mr. Atalay. However, this is specialized matter, and I cannot develop these models here, but one of my intentions is that after this unaltered storm has passed around the electricity prices for the next regulatory period, we will try to make a comparative analysis with the experts in the Commission when implementing other models and to take into account, respectively, the merits and disadvantages of each of them. We are currently following the model that was previously chosen. The only thing we have done is invest in this model much greater objectivity, equality and professionalism in its realization. The last question concerns political influence. Before that Mr. Velizar Enchev, I think Mr. Zhelyo Boychev asked if I was being pressured and influenced. I cannot be pressured to say this very strongly because people who would like to put such pressure know me and know that I will not bend. I believe that the Commission, at least until very recently, has been working in complete sync. I notice that some political forces are trying to exert pressure. There is a really good debate about the Bulgarian energy sector to bring it to the field of political struggles related to the upcoming after four months of local elections. The Commission will not allow such a debate to be held on our territory. He'll stay on a high-level level. I have not been pressured by foreign ambassadors or Bulgarian politicians, and I hope this will continue this way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u89	There is a question from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to Mrs. Haritonova. Dear Mrs. Haritonova, the government has announced four measures that require optimization of expenditure in the sector. It is precisely in relation to this request that there is a proposal to extend the period for announcing the new electricity prices by one month. My question is as follows: do you think that this period, which has been proposed within a month, is sufficient precisely for these reforms in the sector to happen and for these to be the new circumstances to be reflected in the setting of new prices? Do you think it is better to extend this period, for example, to six months, so that what is planned can really happen? That is, we say so "Let's give it a chance, let's give time for reforms to happen and then think about new electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u91	Who's gonna answer that? Here you go, Mrs. Harritonova. You're the one who's asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, in relation to the question asked to me, I would like to give a certain opinion that by betting some month on whether it is one, whether it is three months or six months as an extension of the price period, we are betting a serious difficulty in the energy sector. When I say this thing, I would like to stress the law, which entered into force on 6 March, the heat efficiency, the public supplier, the National Electricity Company as a public supplier, is buying the energy from the heating companies produced in a highly efficient combined way to the quantities determined by the previous regulator's decision. Almost everyone, let me not be extreme, almost all the heat efficiency has run out of these quotas, which means that if we, specifically for thermal energy, do not adopt a decision, the Commission does not adopt a decision on June 30th that will enter into force on July 1st, mass heat efficiency in large cities will stop. This will make it difficult for the Bulgarian citizens who use warm water, respectively. Yes, indeed in July are the renovations of heating, but there are still hot water users. Electrics is something else now. The four measures that the government has pointed out if these measures are being implemented, because we are talking about measures related to the audits of the Agency for State Financial Inspection in the RES sector, naturally, within the end of this month or by the middle of July all audits will not be able to be completed, but the smallest of the large sites benefiting significantly higher prices such as power plants, photovoltaic plants using a price of BGN 485. At megawatt hours, if they manage to do this thing yes, this will automatically reduce the price of obligation to society. Here very often I think that Mr. Ermenkov says that there should be a change not a price of obligation to society but obligations of society, but it is written in the law. This thing will be reduced and given that this ingredient is somewhere in the order of BGN 15. You do realize it's going to be sensitive, don't you? The regulation with the relief of the burden from renewable energy sources on the final price, i.e. in the participation, is the regulation that will ease the industry. Everyone here is saying that it eases the industry. It does not relieve the other business simply called business. It eases the energy-intensive industry. It is estimated that the Regulation is already uploaded to the Ministry of Energy and it is written that more than 30 gigawatt hours will be reduced the price of the green supplement in the price of the Now, in the media and in our conversations, it becomes clear that some other lower thresholds can also be put in place, which, however, will not be these 85%, written in the Ordinance. They will be, conditionally speaking, for example, 30 "40" 50 per cent for those lower thresholds. When it is seen what will happen, it is necessary to make an estimate of how these reductions will affect the prices paid by the industry. The other thing, at the moment, the general opinion of the energy sector is that the model is working and really distributing the burden not only on the regulated market, but also on the free market. Officially we have an application from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which to date is the principal of the Bulgarian Energy Exchange, the so-called independent Bulgarian Energy Exchange, because it is licensed under this title that on 2 November it will begin to act. They have a contract with the Norwegian Stock Exchange and it will start operating on November 2nd. Come on, let's say it's not November 2nd, it's November 10th, but such an exchange will actually work for the first time in Bulgaria and we have to be very careful. Perhaps asking for a six-month extension here said Mr Penev: three or six months, these three months or six months, respectively, will burden the energy companies. I told you, it's not just NEK, it's the heat pump, it's the electrical system operator. The special electricity sector will be heavily charged, so some measures must be taken to compensate for the load that can be obtained from an extension, but the view is that for part of the heat station, we now have all the conditions. We should also make a decision on part of the energy sector, naturally and part of the natural gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u93	Thank you. It's the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Honest Veselinov will ask the second question on behalf of this group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u94	Honourable President, honourable Members, Commissioners! Along with the pricing functions, let's call them, the KEWRC also has a function related to the control functions, which are, of course, directly related to the first. There are public doubts about investment costs, for example, which are made in some companies, the costs of maintaining networks in the ERPs, management costs, which are sometimes extremely high, external services are asked with related parties. For example, we have information about an ERP that has external services for over 900 million long-term contracts with related parties in the same group. My main question is how does Mr. President of the Commission assess the possibilities for controlling these processes? Does he think this control is effective? In particular, I would like to extend its response specifically under the Renewable Energy Act, where the KEWRC must provide information on the generation of renewable energy from renewable energy, which is a basis in practice for pricing for the next forecast period. Thus, the objectivity of this information is very important in the formation of including the prices that we expect to be established. Is KEWRC currently monitoring the objectivity of the data provided by the energy companies for green energy production and the method by which they are calculated, based on invoiced quantities, based on actual indications of commercial measuring instruments or any other method, because the doubt is that much of the green electricity invoices remain quite uncontrolled and this reflects on citizens' accounts?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u95	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Ivanov, we're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I will address these two questions in a consistent manner. The control carried out by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on electricity distribution companies shall be carried out by obligation whenever companies apply for the next regulatory period. I have already noted that the Commission was extremely restrictive in terms of the costs claimed by the energy companies, to a lesser extent restrictive and in terms of the costs claimed by the electricity distribution companies. I'm only going to use one example to illustrate this. All three electricity distribution companies asked for an increase in the so-called... costs.................................................................................................... At least an increase requested ESK 10,6%, then CEZ, and finally Energo-pro asked for more than 13% technological costs to be recognised. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has determined 8% for CEZ and EVN and 9% for Energo-pro due to the specifics of their network and the area they serve and the decreased population in these areas. If you ask why it is these percentages that we have determined, it is because we have stepped on a clear, scientifically justified value of these costs, determined by highly qualified and respected specialists from the Technical University, and we have stated to the electricity distribution companies that the other part of the costs that they claim are essentially commercial costs related to theft, non-respect for energy and the like. Your next question was about controlling and the amount of electricity purchased from renewable energy sources. I will immediately point out that the contracts for the installation of such renewable electricity generation devices themselves are actually fixed the maximum value of electricity to be purchased at preferential prices. It depends on the type of renewable source of wind, sun, water, biomass, depending on power, depends on technology. In the contract itself are recorded the price-forming elements. If this contract in a particular segment is violated, if we are informed by the Agency for State Financial Inspection, we will, of course, take appropriate measures and you will be the witness to that. As for the involvement of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I will make two points. Firstly, the Commission has a very limited composition. These committees in the rest of the European Union function as financially independent. In Bulgaria, the Commission collects 12 million. lv. from energy charges where licences, authorisations and other documents are required by the Commission and only one third of the 4 million is granted to us. We have 35 unattended positions in the regulator administration. If these positions are occupied by a serious increase in the Commission's budget for the next year, we will be able to carry out on-the-spot inspections, but otherwise the Commission's expertise is busy preparing the reports.. I told you: only for the price model the reports are over 800 pages, with cases relating to electricity distribution companies, with certain on-the-spot checks on complaints by citizens. That's what we can do. I would just like to point out that there are experts from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and we will also, in other words, be part of the solutions and reports that ADFI will provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. This is where we'll stop for a break until 12:00. Dear colleagues, in this holiday in the Club of the National Representative will be opened an exhibition painting of the artist Valeri Bodzhov at the invitation of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. The exhibition presents 36 paintings of landscapes, genre paintings and still life. All MPs are invited to attend the opening and see the exhibition. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u98	Colleagues, we are continuing the hearing with the Chair of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Georgi Nedev will ask the Commission for the second time. Here you are, Mr Nedev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Commission! From the talks held in two parliamentary committees and the outcome of the vote it becomes clear, Mr. Ivanov, that with high probability the National Assembly will unite around the idea of extending the regulatory period. I return to that question again, but this time in another aspect. My question won't be tested, it'll be specific. Given that the proposed legislative amendments become a fact, what will be the Commission's action on energy and water regulation to enable power generators involved in the regulated market to operate? Mrs. Haritonova partly touched on the issue of some of them. Does the Commission have a vision? Personally, how will you approach it, because there are literally two days until the time you have to make a decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u100	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Mr. Ivanov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Nedev, if the National Assembly gives a ruling after the first and second vote on the proposed changes, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will hold a meeting on Friday, at which it will take a decision, taking into account all the circumstances...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as energy companies are concerned, I would like to point out immediately that some of the decisions that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will take will be in effect by 30 June. I mean that, as required by the three-month deadline to update the price of natural gas, the Commission will rule on Friday on a decision on the price of natural gas for the next third quarter of 2015. I believe that on Monday, the Commission has reason and in principle there is nothing to prevent the adoption of a decision on the price of heat and energy produced in a highly efficient combined manner. I say this because, otherwise, if this is not done, there will be a bad situation when the price of natural gas will be reduced and the energy that is being bought will be at higher prices because it will remain with the prices fixed before 1 April. The same is true for domestic consumers for their hot water consumption during the third quarter. The Commission will rule with a decision regarding the price of electricity, which should normally be taken on June 30th, but we will decide whether we will accept the opportunity that will give us a possible National Assembly. I do not want to go into detail, but the decision to extend the regulatory period, I have already pointed out, has some advantages and they are linked to accelerated actions to seek additional reserves. Since the question has repeatedly been raised: if the round of companies in the industry, which are manufacturing companies and energy-intensive, is extended to lower levels of electricity consumed per year below 30 gigawatt hours, it is obvious that these reserves can only in this volume reduce the additive for this subsequent category of companies. I am strongly opposed to increasing the deficit in NEK at the expense of other concessions. As they say, this film has already been seen, and such actions have led to this technical failure of NEK. The Commission will not allow this. Only the additional means will lead to the relief of the added obligations to society in consumers in that category with consumption below 30 gigawatt hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, for your answer. We continue with the next in line the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. Mrs. Tasheva, you will ask the question on behalf of the group within two minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, a few minutes ago you said before the break that if you get a black-and-white judgment of a court that proves an undisputed violation of the licence, you will start a procedure for its withdrawal. I would like to remind you that, under the Energy Act, Articles 56 to 59, you do not need a judgment. You are the ones who need to start the procedure, and therefore you need an audit report, a constant protocol. You have two audit reports. One ended in 2010, the other audited from 2008 to 2012 the activities of the ERPs, of their distribution companies. The reports came out in May 2014. There were found monstrous violations of the license contract and three Bulgarian laws, resulting in 818 million being drained. lv. from the Bulgarian user (s), business and so on. Why didn't you start the withdrawal procedure so far? That's my question. One more thing to add, if I may. You boasted of the high value of the scientific approach in determining the technical losses, respectively 8% for both ERPs, 9.5% for You said that he worked a very highly qualified scientific team at the Technical University that assigned them. As you know, in Greece there are 6%, elsewhere there are up to 7%, in Romania they are lower. These are the highest technological losses of the ERPs in the European Union, which Bulgaria allows itself to recognise. My question is: because I know you're taking the department to Technical University, did you have anything to do with this highly qualified scientific team that determined such high technological losses?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva, for the question. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, what you are demanding is that the current composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission be carried out by a previous composition led by Mr. Boyan Boev during the period of the government of Plamen Oresharski, supported by you. This was done, but it was immediately stated to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission that they cannot interpret the violation of European legislation. For this reason, these actions were stopped by that composition of the regulator. If it could happen the way you say it could, I ask the question: why didn't the regulator in charge of Boyan Boev take the licenses? There's been more than a year in which this composition has functioned. Why didn't you take the licenses? Look for Mr. Boev and he will confirm my words. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u106	Please don't enter the dialogue room! Proceed, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u107	It is unnecessary, where the regulator cannot be an interpreter of decisions, to insert the regulator into a similar situation. The regulator is governed entirely and solely by the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and the sub-normative acts as they are. Did you have a second question? No. [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the right to answer one question. We proceed to the next question from the ABB Parliamentary Group. Mr. Belemezov, you have the opportunity to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! In an effort to better regulate the energy market in Bulgaria and to optimize the processes for the management of this market, different changes have been made this year as of course will be made by the end of this year. I would like to point out that amendments to the Energy Act were adopted in March 2015, with the new Article 162 of the Energy Act replacing the obligation of the public supplier and final suppliers to purchase electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration of heat and electricity, in accordance with a Commission decision on energy and water regulation to set an individual price for installations. The final result should be a reduction in production costs, respectively the costs of NEK and the final suppliers of the purchase of the so-called brown electricity. These changes are somehow in line with the aspirations to regulate the energy market towards market liberalisation. I would like to point out that, at the moment, the free market for electricity also supplies industrial consumers using high and medium voltage energy. With the finalisation of the stage of full market liberalisation, companies that consume energy from low voltage and also households should join this segment. It is assumed that the fully released energy market will require new rules for trading and realization of energy on the exchange. My question to you is: Mr. Ivanov, are the objectives set by the amendment of the Energy Act concerning the so-called brown electricity and how does this affect the financial situation of NEK as a public supplier? Has this analysis been done at the moment? Since this issue is also consistent with the full liberalisation of the market, I would also like to ask you: how does the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission see its role and functions after the introduction of the so-called Energy Exchange? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u110	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Mr. Ivanov, this will be your last answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before I answer Mr. Belemezov, allow me, Mr. Chairman, to answer in two words the second question Mrs. Tasheva asked me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u112	Since it is a last statement, you can also summarize it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u113	Thank you for that understanding. Mrs. Tasheva, I have nothing to do with the collective that has pronounced itself in terms of technological losses. He is one of the really well-educated specialists from the Technical University who were subjected to very severe criticism by the three electricity distribution companies who blamed these professors whose names I don't even know. All I know is the name of whoever's in charge of this group, but I don't work with him in any way. They were criticised for setting a very low level of technological losses. However, you made a major mistake by saying that of the countries of the European Union in the region of Southeast Europe Bulgaria has the highest technological losses. There are four member states of the European Union in the region of Southeast Europe. These are Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Greece. Only in Greece, Mrs. Tasheva, are lower technological losses. In Romania they are 9%, in Slovakia they are 8.5%. You have heard that in Bulgaria there are 8% in two of the electricity distribution companies and only in one because of the specifics that really exist there are 9%. I can spread out and explain why, but I can do this in a Commission meeting because there is not enough time to do this in front of the plenary. I'm moving on to the questions Mr. Belemezov asked. First, on the impact of the amendments to the Law of 6 March on thermal and plant plants and their purchased electricity. In the last regulatory period, according to NEK's official reporting data, energy was purchased for 650 million. lv. This energy is in two segments of high-performance energy combined with a preferential price, and the next segment is energy that is purchased at an individual price. But notice, for most of these plants the difference between preferential and individual price is only a penny. This really is a decision that I could in no way explain how it was adopted. What the Law of 6 March replaces and which we implement and I am convinced of the right of this decision to purchase only the highly efficient electricity produced in a combined way, because there must be at least 10% of the primary energy resource, which would otherwise be used to produce heat and electricity separately. Secondly, the financial effect. It is as follows: 130 million. lv. are the funds that save NEK because it is released from the buying-in of energy which is not highly efficient. In addition, NEK's financial payments for high-performance energy are reduced in a combined way, but we have currently accounted for 30 million. lv. a reduction, and I assure you that after the last checks that we want to document from the various heat efficiencys, the required heat load, which corresponds to highly efficient electricity produced in a combined manner, probably within the coming weeks, will increase this financial resource, which we will save NEK. Be assured that we will do everything necessary in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since this is the last answer to a question you have asked, I would like to take this opportunity to assure you that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in its actions is indeed guided by the public interest. This is proven by all the decisions we've made so far, and we're going to make them from now on. I hope that we will also have the confidence of the plenary in the consistent defending of the principles for the protection of Bulgarian energy and the removal from the severe crisis that it is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u114	And I thank you, Mr. Ivanov, not only for this answer, but for all the answers, as well as for the participants, to your colleagues from the Commission. We're moving on to the attitude mode. We start with the GERB Group. Just to remind you that the time in which you can take attitude is up to five minutes for each parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the regulator! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I can say that we are satisfied with the debate that is taking place today, for two reasons. Although it has been widely criticised whether such a debate is needed in the National Assembly, we believe that this debate has been very useful because people, society, have once again understood what the real situation is. Whether we like it or not, it is what it is, namely about three billion and three hundred million debts that the National Electricity Company has, at all, in the whole system, plus every year around 650 million deficits, which accumulates annually. I welcome and thank my colleagues from the regulator for the job well done. I believe that the model, which they have applied and made it public, really responds to the real and not to the wishes that we have politicians, and sometimes in the past, and have made such a model, which is truly objective. That's the way it should be. Without going back, of course, back to who is guilty, who is right, and who is crooked, is ultimately of public interest, and this must be known by every citizen, we should not only try to keep the price of electricity as we politicians want, but as should be based on financial and economic justifications. It is in the public interest that the sector...... is one of the vital industries in our economy to be in good financial and economic condition, so the public interest should be viewed from there and not just from what the price of electricity will be. And the second thing I believe and am satisfied on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, and I think that no one can challenge this fact is that, indeed, by the adopted Law of February 2015. We have done our job as MPs and we have chosen a regulator that is truly independent. That's the way it should be. I call on the whole Commission, not only the desire made by Mr. Ivanov, the intention for the future work of the Commission, but all the members of the regulator to continue to work the same way. After all, whether this month, with which you may possibly be able to extend the entry of the next regulatory period, will give its cardinal results, of course, time will show. Let's wait for the State Financial Inspection Agency's reports. Let us wait for the measures that can be taken by the Ministry of Energy. Of course, we must look for every reserve, but ultimately their decision to be such that it protects the public interest on both the price of electricity and prepare both society and business to enter the so-called liberalised market. Because this is the future we need to follow. I wish you a successful job and, of course, I hope that there will be additional reserves next month, so that we can allow the regulator to change its decision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov, for the attitude. We're moving on to the next speech. It should belong to a colleague from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, you are an entirely independent institution, and my personal opinion is that the model you are proposing should be the model that needs to be adopted. Of course, we have the right, because we are here in Parliament, politically speaking whether we like this model or not. But I can assure you, Mr. Ivanov, that mostly what we don't like about this model is this. First, we know that for the entire price period, the forecast is approximately 32 billion. Seven hundred million. Kilowatt hour. For the regulated market, what is approximately 15.4 billion. Kilowatt hour. But notice, ladies and gentlemen: half of that 15 billion. 400 million. kylovatsa de facto belong to whom the TPP 1 and TPP 3 belong. You mean where the expensive energy is! And that price is 40% more expensive than the one NEK passes as a public supplier! This one first. Secondly, we do not understand, except that it is in relation to the regulatory period 2014 - 2015, I am talking about the one that was not during the service government of October, but from the previous composition of the SEWRC, de facto Mr. Ivanov, you are increasing the quota of TPP 1 by 51%, of TPP Maritsa Iztoksa by 46%, of high-efficiency cogeneration by 17%. The quota of renewables and hydropower, notice, ladies and gentlemen, is increasing twice! I leave aside that already TPP Maritsa Iztok 2 is out of the game and so on that nuclear power plant is down from 1.71 to 1,021. That is, what we do not like, of course, is that we continue to work mainly with the two main sources of the problem in Bulgarian energy. And we all need to understand that. These are both U.S. power plants and renewable energy sources. Nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! And here the third question is as follows: although the European Commission is being called upon, and perhaps this is one of the main reasons why Mr. Boev should be pressed to resign, because you know that there is a block of TPP - Maritsa Iztok 1 - must go out on the free market, therefore, to decrease the price by 30%, and from TPP 3 a block to go out on the free market and to decrease the price by 20% for unlawful State aid and for excessive State aid, unfortunately we do not have any result and we do not know what will happen. Did you really answer? The second is for renewable energy sources. Audits have been carried out, and this is being ignored on purpose. There have been over 2,000 violations. You don't pay attention either. You, Mr. Ivanov, had to prove systemality, significance and consistency in order to get to the seizure procedure why not the license! Only, ladies and gentlemen, why can't we go along with this procedure? Because in the Bulgarian legislation there is no function of the special manager what he performs. And when we from BSP left Bulgaria in the latest amendments to the Energy Act offered functions to the special governor, you of the majority rejected it! Well, then how do you get it?! Then who's protecting who? And something very important. I understand from the Deputy Prime Minister that he wants to introduce a fee, as in other countries. That's exactly what the previous government tried a year ago with the previous National Assembly to introduce a 20% fee on RES. Who's protecting the RES? Who canceled that fee? President Plevneliev! [[Radio.]] Who chose President Plevneliev, I ask? That is, we really need to think about and ask ourselves this question and respond to our renewable energy sources. Because this model, which we are being offered, of course, is the Commission's, they are proposing. And in the end, this debate here is unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen, because every three months the Commission can propose a different model. Then what is the problem and why are we really continuing with this debate? So here the debate should be as follows: how to help the Commission in its work, how to increase the Commission's budget and not go back to those times, because we are talking about deficits and the deficits were scary. There are commissioners here who worked in the mines and know when the scariest thing was the silence in the mines...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u118	Please finish the sentence!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u119	And what was undertaken so that Bulgarian energy would work!? Some GERB representatives advise them not to go to the miners in order not to be beaten up! Thank you. [[Replyes: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u120	And thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I let you finish the sentence. It's been a long time, but that's within normal limits. We'll continue with the next speech. Mr. Atalay, you are today in the role of representative and spokesperson of the DPS Parliamentary Group on the topic............................................................................................. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where there is order and discipline, it is known. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I do not know after this speech, which Mr. Stoynev made, whether we are useful to society, whether all political forces are aware of whether today our main idea and thesis to build trust in the independent regulator will be obtained after all these things, how much BSP has done, but I will say a few words about them too. The first basic thing, fellow Members, about the messages that we have sent to society today and the answers that the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has given us.............................. we have reached the senses of everyone who will benefit from the conditions that the final client will receive, the energy that will pay, the business production that will pay. The Prime Minister finally understands that he can't go to a protest on just one side. He should be that responsible prime minister who should be responsible for the whole society because, as Mr. Ivanov said, what the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is doing is for the public interest and not in the interests of the business, not in the interests of the final client, not in the interests of GERB, not in the interests of the DPS, nor of BSP. Colleagues, I will express satisfaction with the answers Mr. Ivan Ivanov gave, and I will welcome him that for a very short period of time he has separated himself from his political nature and has grown a little more than his political party, which he presented here a few months ago, but let us give some advice to his political power, that when speaking statesmanically, there should also be a stately attitude. Mr. Ivanov, you said this model was balanced, stabilizing. And one more thing: does it allow us to have a transitional period to the liberalised market? I think that will be achieved, too. If you haven't achieved it, see if this model gives us such an opportunity. Colleagues, today's attempt to transfer responsibility to the National Assembly as an anvil and someone with a hammer to beat us, I am convinced that it will not work. It didn't happen for several reasons.............. we are bringing order to things that the executive couldn't do in the past period. The executive power could not create the regulation, could not cut 10% of the costs in the energy system, ADFI could not do all this work, the ministers of Lukarski, represented by the entire palette of four parties that manage today, did not do their job and therefore let the National Assembly be at that height and give a month of opportunity to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to release the regulatory period or not implement its regulatory period on 1 July. This is an obligation and an opportunity that we will give to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Ivanov, on July 1st you have the opportunity to enter, and also by July 31st you can accept the opportunity to wait at least one month to see what can happen in the executive authority...................................................................... Dear colleagues, the business should be calm today that those who will use up to 2000 megawatts will have 30% help from the German model, as applied in Germany; up to 10 will benefit from 50%; who will benefit from more than 30 thousand. The megawatt will benefit 85% discount, so business is also paid attention. Mr. Ivanov, you can do this right now so you can calm down the business and from the 1st you can also enter the regulatory period. The desire of some political forces to postpone by three months or to reach the local elections so that they can fulfill their political programmes will result in another 300 million obligations of the National Electricity Company. Everything that is currently happening with RES and other than brown energy, even during the time of Mr. Oresharski's law, the law that we adopted had to certify brown energy and introduce not Robin Hood, but an obligation of every electricity producer in Bulgaria to bear its obligation to the public. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Then, gentlemen of the BSP, with some of the other people with whom you introduced 20% obligations, you knew that either the President or the court would cancel it, so you entered 20%. And the differentiated approach that we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have offered you is also about the state approach for which you are appealed today, please listen to this and be all in its order. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u122	Thank you, Mr. Atalay, for your attitude. There is a follow-up with regard to the responses.. Mr Nayden Zelenogorski, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. You have the floor, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, honourable commissioners, MPs! We are also satisfied with this discussion, the answers of Mr. Ivanov and the members of the KEWRC. In general, the Reformation Block cannot support the increase in the price of electricity at this time.. neither for the population nor for the business. We believe that it is premature and that we need more time, as well as the KEWRC, to improve this price model. We would like to see the results of the optimization of the costs that are being discussed and see what will happen after the energy exchange in Bulgaria is introduced. In this sense, a six-month extension is absolutely legal and normal. I would hope that my fellow executives, especially the Minister of Energy, will be a little more active with regard to cost optimization and control over everything that is happening in state energy. Why? Why not now? Not now, because just now the economy has taken its breath and notes GDP growth of 2%, we also have investment growth about three times, we have the chance to give the business a chance to enter a more serious condition. Unfortunately, with such an increase in electricity prices, this will be much more problematic. These obligations of NEK of 3.7 billion. are one not yellow, but a red lamp. There are also 2 billion for NPP Belene and 1 billion for Tsankov Stone, here are 2 million for flower watering, huge advertising budgets in which, let's say, Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant advertises its goods, provided they are a monopoly [[noise and lines]] , huge sponsor budgets, 20 million. lv. loss of year at the rest stations in energy. I have a feeling that in Bulgaria there are two countries - one country is the state of state energy. Let me tell you, it may sound surprising to you, but here I have a reference to the average salaries in state energy that the average salary is BGN 3100. It is higher than the salary of the MP, and all of the senior management of state energy receive more than the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister and the President. I say that costs should be optimized. I claim that it is unacceptable that the average salary in BEH should be BGN 4053. I claim that it is unacceptable in the state TPP the average wage to be 3800 BGN, in Bulgargaz 3600 BGN, Bulgartransgaz BGN 3660, in NPP, with all due respect, is BGN 4300. I'm sorry. In Bulgaria, the whole society must bear part of the responsibility of Bulgaria to clear things up and move forward. I insist with the Minister, unfortunately, Mrs. Petkova is not at the moment, on 30 July to report to Parliament what happened this month and a half, to what extent measures have been taken and what optimization of expenditure in state energy has been made. I would also hope that the Prime Minister, who said: "In this country no one will receive more from the Prime Minister, to look at the higher management of state energy and to put order. Excuse me, however, the public needs to learn this news because, after all, state energy pays 780 million annual wage costs and assists them. Finally, unfortunately, there is little time left, I would hope to introduce clarity in energy. I call on the Court of Auditors to entrust targeted audits to all state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with over 50% state or municipal participation in energy. I demand that the MPs reach political agreement on Bulgaria's application for entry into the European Energy Exchange. And if this deadline is decided to be extended by three or six months, finally every month, the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova to report here what we have optimized, what measures we have taken, to what extent the control of state energy works. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u124	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! Every debate is a good thing, but when no concrete proposals come out of a debate, there is no point in it. In no case can I be pleased with some of the arguments I have heard, both I and my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, that this is the situation and we need to raise the prices of electricity because there has been a deficit in NEK. This deficit in NEK, as has already been said, has been accumulated mainly because of several things: the TPP Maritsa East and 3, the RES and the entire system of 20 years to be stolen outrageously in energy. What are you offering us, anyway? Instead of looking to solve problems with radical and bold measures and solutions, to continue to raise the price of electricity, to pay for consumers and business, instead of this deal and this carelessness to continue. In our view, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, must postpone the decision to change the price of electricity until the necessary reserves are found and removed. The household subscribers and business representatives do not want a new increase because they see no reason to pay for the mistakes and fears of Bulgarian politicians. Several urgent measures are needed to restore justice and stop price growth. According to the Patriot Front, some of the measures are as follows: 1. Stop the agony with the TPP Maritsa East. 1 and TPP Maritsa East. 3. They cost us 1 billion a year, and they're realizing a profit of only 430 million. This profit is actually the cause of 2/3 of the NEK deficit. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to ask the European Commission for an urgent response whether much higher prices for which electricity is purchased under contract from the plants of Maritsa East and 3 and RES, do not constitute unlawful State aid in the light of the legislation of the European Union itself? A positive response from the European Commission will allow for re-negotiation and reduction of the prices in question. 2. To terminate the buying-in of RES energy that are introduced with a single power license and are connected to a higher power. For example, they were introduced with a power of 5 megawatts and sold 10 megawatts. There's over 100 of these RESs. To terminate the buy-in until it is clear what real power is. 3. Do not pay the electricity of those RESs for which serious discrepancies have been found in the readings of their meters and the amount of electricity charged by the ERP for payment by NEK. These discrepancies were identified in the audit checks carried out by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in February 2015. 4. Do not buy electricity from RES that are not put into service. There are cases where RES do not have permission to use, they do not have construction permits, but they buy electricity from them, that is, expensive electricity is bought, produced by a plant that does not exist on documents. 5. Until a complete and detailed inspection has been carried out, the payment of electricity from photovoltaic power plants which account for more solar energy produced during the winter months than during the summer months. There are similar facts. We have to be absolute imbeciles to think that in winter there is more sun and there is more electricity produced than these photovoltaics than in summer, only it has been a practice for 15 years. 6. In the case of electricity distribution companies, the so-called "ERPs', there is a drastic discrepancy between direct costs of maintenance of the main activity and the so-called "the services'. The ratio reaches 2:1 in favour of the services. This is practically draining the ERP's profits at the expense of the electricity price of the end-user. This has also been established for some of these ERPs with audit reports as early as 2011. 7. Electricity thefts shall not be recognised as losses of electricity distribution companies. The problem with the restriction of the theft is the ERPs, not the conscientious payers of electricity in Bulgaria, only this is a practice as well. We all see it, but it doesn't stop. 8. To check whether the costs of large state-owned enterprises producing electricity are optimized. There are also reserves here to limit spending by millions. 9. This is not so much a proposal to the Commission for energy and water regulation as to the Ministry of Energy: the export of electricity to be charged with at least 10% of the public debt fee. Here the reserve is between 70 and 100 million.. much more than will be realised at the prices offered for an increase, which is about 50 million. These are just some of the things that need to be done. Everything else is a blank debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u126	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Time's up. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u127	We continue to insist on the postponement of the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u128	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u129	Dear President, honourable Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! First of all, I would like to express satisfaction with the answers Mr. Ivanov gave to the questions that our parliamentary group has asked today and on behalf of the parliamentary group to state full support for the action of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission so far. Our view is that the Commission shows a complete understanding of the processes in energy at the moment and the actions to overcome the current deficit in the system are adequate and timely. I would just like to remind the honourable MPs who voted to trust the current composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission that, taking office, President Ivan Ivanov firmly stated that in order to overcome the accumulated problems in energy, all the producers must have a participation to the consumers of electricity. Then many may not have realized what it was about, now words have a specific expression. By supporting the Commission's ideas in the President's face at the beginning, we now believe that we are obliged to support the actions that correspond to them then, supported by us. The other would be misunderstanding and populism. I have one remark and perhaps it is more to the Ministry of Energy in terms of the price model that the Commission applies and will eventually be applied to the new regulatory period.Yes, preferences for the business, energy-intensive industries, but nowhere did the Ministry mention once, our attitude to the fact that these energy-intensive industries are actually doing nothing to lower this energy efficiency. I appeal to the Ministry of Energy to take into account both preferences, but they must be bound by appropriate action to increase energy efficiency in the future so as to meet the requirements for a gradual reduction in the energy efficiency of our industry, which is among the highest. Regarding the recommendations for the Commission's work in the future development of energy, I fully express my support for what Mr. Karakachanov has made clear to us, but I have the following opinion that the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory in today is working in strictly defined legal frameworks and, however much Mr. Ivanov or his staff, the composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, to change things in general, this cannot happen now. Again, I appeal for support for the actions of the professionals, the Chairman of the Energy Commission at the moment, so that we can be the factor that will raise its credibility in the future. And the rest is largely our business. I will not dwell on the particulars that Mr. Karakachanov well clarified. With this, I would like to wish the Commission success. Yes, there will be problems, as controlling the Commission's actions is now becoming direct from the National Assembly. It will be difficult and there will be many such moments, but ultimately we expect the result to be positive as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u130	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Mr. Volen Siderov has the floor in relation to the debates on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, this was not a hearing. This hearing had to shed light on the problems of Bulgarian energy, in fact cast darkness, cast more ambiguity, for which both the charming Eastern dialect of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, which he has not shown for so many years, but this is not a problem now, so is the defense or conspiracy of the ruling parties who stand behind the Commission instead of asking for her resignation. Yes, we from Ataka, want the resignation as you have ordered here, the entire KEWRC. Hey, guys, do you have any white paper? Give them a white sheet to write their resignation, as the National Assembly has voted you, and now to announce your resignation, as you have proved your bankruptcy. What happened to clarifying people who have been watching and listening for three and a half hours? A few days ago, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission gathered and decided to raise the price of electricity. Here, I would especially like to point out the hypocrisy of some coalition partners, the Patriotic Front. A moment ago, their representative tried to make it clear that he was not from the ruling coalition and their two representatives in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission also did not vote to raise the price of electricity. All up to one members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission unanimously voted for a high electricity price a few days ago. With the Commission's overindependence, the government intervened and said: "Wait a minute now, let's listen for a month, let's see and when August comes, when most people are on vacation, then you will raise the price of electricity. This, however, has already been played in previous departments by one coincidence again of GERB, GERB-1. Then, just in August, when people are at sea and it's summer, when electricity isn't such a problem, the price of electricity goes up. The delay, for which there is such an amazing consensus, aims precisely that the price will rise in August and not now on July 1st. We will see this with our own eyes, as August 1 is very close. There is no understanding of what this delay will improve the situation of the Bulgarian consumer, the Bulgarian business, because raising the price for the Bulgarian business again goes to the consumer. The business will calculate its expenditure in the final product and again the pensioner will pay with his lefties! And as for the NEK deficit, it is 4 billion, Mr. Ivanov, not 3.3 billion. I quote your Prime Minister, today's Prime Minister of Bulgaria, who said the deficit is 4 billion. These 4 billion have already been completed by the loan, which you voted here without the attack. You voted him in this room a few weeks and months ago, and out of 16 billion 4 billion will go to fill the hole in NEK. Isn't that right? That is, we, the Bulgarian people, the taxpayers will pay the profits of the insolent profiteers from the two US companies and the insolent profiteers from RES tata. Who are the RESs? First of all, these are foreign countries. There is talk here and someone tried to say something, but didn't finish, I help you these are foreign countries: Saudi Arabia is the one of the largest owners of photovoltaics in Bulgaria, the richest Arab state, one of the richest countries in the world, earns from the expensive electricity in Bulgaria; South Korea also benefits from the expensive electricity in Bulgaria; Austria and EVN one of the ERPs, also owns photovoltaics and, imagine, sells electricity to itself. The hole in NEK will not be filled in the way Mr. Ivanov tried to explain. This hole in NEK will be filled with the loan you have already voted in this room. In this way the Bulgarian people will pay twice at the same time the big profit of foreign companies, and also the loan, which has already been voted here. Let me say two words about the RES. On our proposal in December 2013 here, in this bad parliament, the one that was very bad was voted 20% on RES. It was proposed by Ataka and the House is being voted on. Who canceled it? The Constitutional Court! Why? Because President Plevneliev asked so, he also referred to it through his people there and with the people who are now on a ruling coalition, this decision was repealed. So a relief or 200 million that were going to enter NEK was returned to the RES again. I told you about some foreign countries, but now I will add that there are Bulgarian oligarchs who own the RES. Some of them relate precisely to President Plevneliev. So here the circle closes, here it is clear to everyone, there is no need for a specialist to understand that in Bulgaria the looting of the people has been going on since the NDSV government sold the ERPs to three foreign companies [[the President signals that time has run out]] , then at the time of GERB in 2011? 2012 grew like mushrooms a lot of RES. All this is the great plunder of Bulgaria. To conclude, I will conclude with a single call for fulfillment of a promise. In 2010, the then prime minister, by a coincidence he is again prime minister, of the question will he break the contracts with the ERPs, he says: "I am considering it will be terminated, whatever the cost of this. This is in 2010.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u132	Thank you, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u133	It's 2015 now, and I think there's plenty of time to think about it. It is time to take the licenses of these criminal companies and really regulate the current so that it can be paid by Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u134	On behalf of the parliamentary group of ABB Mr. Kiril Tsochev, five minutes for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u135	Dear President, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, honourable Members! Let me, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, thank the President and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for having responded to the National Assembly's invitation and participated in today's discussion. Hearing and clarifying the Commission's motives to propose a new model for the forthcoming price period in the regulated sector, not only within the parliamentary committees, but also in plenary, we assess as an opportunity for greater publicity, for further transparency in the preparation and decision making of a broad public interest. How much and how we have convinced this society today that we are a true national representation that, when discussing important issues, we are representatives of a national community, not a mathematical sum of representatives of a certain number of political forces, this will appreciate our constituents. What we have today involved our attention, these and the arguments we have heard, once again and with even greater force, have confirmed the following. Firstly, the Bulgarian energy sector is in severe condition as a result of a number of actions and omissions resulting from the making of non-professional decisions leading to the accumulation of disproportions and a severe financial deficit in the sector. Secondly, the catastrophic economic results are due to the misunderstanding or unwillingness of energy and the electricity system to be regarded as a system, as a whole, the indicators of which are determined not only by the functioning of the individual components, the production of energy from renewable sources or nuclear, or hydropower, but by the development and management of the system as a whole. Thirdly, energy recovery does not only go through price increases. The changes in them are necessary, they are a legitimate phenomenon. However, changes must be accompanied by vigorous action to reform the system. Fourth, more than ever, it is clear that we must work in accordance with specific programmes with a long-term energy strategy, and not solve energy problems in a piece and in a conjunctural way. The explanations we have heard from the Commission show that the proposed model eliminates errors in the old price model, that it allows financial stabilisation of the National Electricity Company and other state-owned companies, halting debt processes between companies, ending cross-subsidisation in the sector and making decisions to introduce market liberalisation. A willingness to respect the principle of fairness and to remedy historical injustice accumulated in pricing shall be declared. There is talk of a fair price, but will the price be fair that corresponds to the cost of producing and delivering energy to the end-user if the system is generally managed and regulated poorly, opaque and unpredictable? At this stage, we have no reason to doubt the competence and independence of the Commission and we welcome the stated readiness of this Chamber to stand up for its proposals and regulatory principles. But once again, once again, we insist: the government through the Ministry of Energy to offer public attention for discussion, and then the National Assembly for validating long-term vision and Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Energy by 2030, with a vision until 2050. As a beginning and as an expression of respect for the national representation the Ministry of Energy can review and submit a Report on the implementation of the existing Strategy with a horizon by 2020, adopted here at the National Assembly, in 2011. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u136	Thank you, Mr. Tsochev. I thank the President and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Colleagues, we'll continue with our program further. From now on, the sitting is not broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Please turn off the cameras and microphones accordingly. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that an exchange of items on the agenda, namely item three, is the Second Voting of the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, become point two, and point two "Project for a decision on the extension of the duration of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria, become point three. Please put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u138	Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u139	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a reverse proposal, as the second point will take literally a few minutes. It has been transferred this way since last week and is not voted on, but it is actually about the Commission, which is carrying out a revision in the sector........................................................................................... How long are we gonna delay this decision?! Colleagues, we don't have to waste time on procedures right now! We could have voted on this decision by now. Therefore, I ask you not to support this proposal. Debates on the Labour Code are very serious. There are very serious texts that can't be torn. Most likely, the real debate on this bill will take place tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u140	I put to the vote the proposal made for the displacement of points two and three in our weekly programme. They voted 114 MPs: 78, against 20, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote, because most of my colleagues did not actually understand that they should vote against Mrs. Angelova's proposal because we are blaming the work of the Temporary Commission. She needs an extension of the deadline, and for this thing a decision of the National Assembly is needed. It'll take a few minutes. I say again: the amendments to the Labour Code are extremely heavy and we cannot tear them apart. In fact, today we will finish the time by reading the report by the President of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u142	It's a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u143	Yeah, I know it's a second vote. The texts and amendments to this Law are very serious. Therefore, please very much: vote against the proposal of Mrs Angelova in order to adopt the decision to extend the period of validity of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u144	Colleagues, re-vote. Vote 127 MPs: 80 against 36, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mr. Ademov will introduce us. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make a procedural proposal before this: in connection with the discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code in the Chamber, to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u146	We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Report on General Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code adopted at the first vote, No 502-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2015, and the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, No 554-01-24, submitted by Peter Kanev and a group of MPs on 6 February 2015. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Labour Code. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u148	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the name of the Law by the importer. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u150	There are no speeches. We are voting on § 1 of the importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u151	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kircho Karagyov, Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Atanas Merdjanov for the creation of a new § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as The activities of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation shall be provided by the Secretariat in the Chamber of Secretary and Technical Secretary of the Administration of the Council of Ministers and two advisers appointed by the representative organisations of employees and employers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u152	Statements? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u153	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Although the Commission does not support our proposal, I will share with you the reasons that have led us to submit this proposal and try to persuade you to support its adoption. In fact, I will motivate the report already reported by the President of the Commission § 1a and the related § 1b. Tripartite cooperation is based on dialogue and constructive solutions. It is essential for timely correction of shortcomings in the developed draft regulatory and abnormal acts. It is also key to agreeing to conduct reforms at a cost acceptable to our society, for economic justification protected from conflict grounds. It is also conditioned for the development of a consensus culture in social relationships. Tripartite cooperation in Bulgaria dates back to 1992 and has had serious development and progress, but at the same time shows weaknesses in terms of transparency and publicity of the whole process of social dialogue. According to the International Labour Organisation, several key factors influence the effectiveness of social dialogue. The first is respect for the fundamental right to freedom of association and collective bargaining; the second I draw attention to the last two recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, which are fundamental motives for us as importers of these proposals. The National Council for Tripartite Cooperation is the highest tribune, if I may say so, of tripartite cooperation and is a body for consultation and cooperation at national level on labour and directly related relations, insurance relations, as well as on the issue at the vital level. The legal framework of the tripartite cooperation in Bulgaria is contained in the provisions of the Labour Code. The organization, activity and function, the framework and financing of both the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and the Industry, Branch and Regional and Municipal Councils for Tripartite Cooperation shall be governed by art. 3a,............................................................................................................... Along with the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which we have just voted on and which enables an agreement between trade unions and employers' organisations to adopt regulations, and the agreement may be proposed by the state and its implementation to be carried out by the state, we, as importers, propose to create a new para. Article 6 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3a. The text has already been heard or you have it in the Commission's report. 3g. In this way, we believe that the legal and technical arrangements will be ensured, and not only the technical provision of the activities of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Appropriate institutional support from the state will also be ensured. Next offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u154	Wait, we haven't exhausted this offer!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u155	Yeah, we're not done with that, but I don't want to take the floor, and I'm going to say two words about him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u156	You tell us how the Rules of Procedure are incorporated into the Labour Code. Explain this as a normative technique.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u157	Well, basically, this is our proposal, which we believe will be institutional support for the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and will have reason to happen by inserting these texts into the law. We think they need to be present in the Labor Code, why? Because the answer is that collective bargaining needs to be validated in order to have publicly available information and publicity of the work of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation in order to increase the awareness of employees about their rights and obligations. And I ask you to support these proposals of ours because they will help improve social dialogue and increase awareness of tripartite cooperation in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u158	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Gokov, Karagyozov, Ninova, Boychev and Merdjanov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 15 against 40, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u159	Proposal of the MPs Gokov, Karagyozov, Ninova, Boychev and Merdjanov for the creation of a new § 1b: ?? 1b. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 3g: Art. 3g (1) The State shall promote and support bilateral cooperation between trade union and employers' organisations at all levels of their activity in matters and in the manner set out in art. 2. (2) The representative trade union and employers' organisations shall endeavour to develop and improve bilateral dialogue at all levels of their activity aimed at: 1. strengthening mutual trust; 2. mutual respect for interests; 3. validation of collective bargaining; 4. developing mutual cooperation and achieving mutually acceptable solutions along the path of dialogue and agreements; 5. raising the awareness of employees about their rights and obligations; 6. activation of employees for a higher contribution to the labour process; 7. development and validation of corporate social responsibility. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u160	Statements? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u161	Dear colleagues, in this text we propose to introduce principles of tripartite negotiation. As you can see, the texts are very common, but they lay the basis for an equal treatment in the Trilateral Council. We have seen decisions that, in some cases, ignore the views of the trade unions, in another case, of employers. With these principle texts, we create some rules of equality and mutual respect for the three countries - trade unions, employers and a state. We have also done so on a proposal from the participants in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. A written proposal was made to us as importers by the trade unions and on their behalf, between first and second readings, we do so. It is consistent with the opinion of the participants in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u162	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 109 MPs: 16 against 34, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u163	According to § 2 the proposal of the MPs Todorova, Gancheva, Zaharieva, Vassilev, Gechev and Toshev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u164	Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u165	Thank you, Madam President. The Patriotic Front Group will support the importer's text to give a 7-day term for registration of employment contracts. Moreover, this text, thus submitted by the importer, places employers, workers and relevant state institutions in a state of equality, as it is a 7-day period and for termination and registration of terminated labour law relations. Moreover, a large number of employers who carry out their activities in small settlements practically parade a lack, even accept, of an Internet provider to enable these people to handle the possibility of electronic registration of contracts, they cannot do this thing. They have to spend some, not a little money and practically fall into the hypothesis that it is almost every day that one person travels to the relevant regional directorate of the NRA in order to make a registration. I therefore appeal to my colleagues to support the text of the importer under § 2 because the 7-day period is the working period. He is a good term, and what is more, he does not turn the state into an evil stepmother. When violations are committed and non-compliance with this 3-day period, which is currently in effect, unfortunately employers will also have to pay serious fines without being guilty, only no one will ask them if there is an Internet provider in the small settlement or not, and why he, for subjective and objective reasons, has missed this 3-day period. The correct solution is to support the text of the importer. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, when the general bill was being examined, it was put in an extreme situation - almost all of the members had no opportunity to get to know the report in advance. Therefore, many of the decisions, personally, I do not believe that they have been precisely taken by the Commission for this very reason, by hastening to change such an important Law as the Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u166	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? To speak, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u167	My fellow Members, when it comes to text by importer, you understand, the importer is me and my fellow Members from our parliamentary group, and as the proposals are quite many, I would like to ask perhaps in a slight violation of the regulation, not to take the floor again and say a few words on what we have achieved with the vote now, possibly at second reading and adoption of these proposals. Firstly, you know that two weeks ago, when we were discussing at first reading in this Chamber, I said that we must find the balance of labor. This is extremely important, and I would like to thank the leadership of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and Mr. Ademov personally, at least from the version I see proposed that they managed to find this balance between labour and capital. Personally, my fellow Members and I are assessing what we have achieved, however, by proposing these texts. Three things were absolutely important to us. I do not dramatize the fact that the Commission has not accepted the extension of the deadline of three to seven days, this will not kill the Bulgarian business, but there are just some rules in the game and since one party has the right to seven days, I do not see why the other party should be hit by three days. It's not fatal! But I think that first the topic of retirement is the most important thing in what we are going to vote on today. We're clogging up a clogged system. I'm not going back three or four years ago why this was done. The situation must have been different then, others were the bargaining and the conditions, I do not comment. But the truth is that what we are doing today with the employer's right to settle, when you do your years of internship and pension, to release an employee or worker, is a good thing. Understand, the system is clogged. There is nothing social in this story because some of the colleagues on the left and on the right have planted: "Ama, you are taking away the worker's right to work! " Mostly the unions are against it. The employee's right is both to work and to rest, and there's nothing more normal than when you did your internship and pension years to retire. If the employer wants to, he'll leave you. Secondly, for the vacation schedule, I'm not going back again. I'm sorry, but I have to take the floor on all subjects, Mrs. Tsacheva. It doesn't make any sense. I'm gonna waste your time. I would like to thank you again for accepting and finding a balance where, on the one hand, we release employers from these 50 million pages a year, a senseless food chain for corruption of control bodies, on the other hand, defend workers' rights to the use of leave. Because I'm being remarked, Mr. Ademov, that I'm getting a little out of line text by text to save time for all of you, I won't take the floor again. Three, the micro companies. This is the main topic of relations for the so-called business environment. We all underestimate, but there are 334 thousand companies in Bulgaria. Six hundred thousand people are working in them, 1.8 people are in one firm under two people. These companies are freaked out by all kinds of bullshit and shit, starting with regulations, concerted accounts, accounting reports. It's a food chain, not to tell you what it's about. Adding that around 500,000 people work in small companies, my proposals are actually for that 1 million. $100,000. The guy. It's the backbone of small and medium business. Whenever we start making programs and preparing for elections, for us politicians, this is the political gum we are talking about. Let us also help from now on I have many other proposals, and I also rely on your cooperation. As far as I know, the vote at the first reading precedent was in this Parliament with 148 votes for.......... no objection............................................................................ I want to thank you again. I do not wish to speculate on the time and violation of the regulation of the Parliament which has been given to me, but the truth is that our parliamentary group has strongly supported us and will yet support us on proposals relating to small and medium-sized businesses. That's the truth if we want to move forward. Once again, thank you, and I promise you, I won't take the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u168	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. You won't get it, but the rest of the co-conspirators will. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u169	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, strictly and only on the subject of the seven-day period. A few more arguments in the direction of why we propose these seven days. Because we think it is acceptable and because it will also unify the time limits of seven days and will not create instability in employment if it is passed from three to seven days. There's a lot of motive. The three-day term often brings in companies in violation, especially small ones who do not have their own departments or resources or accounting, or another external service company performs the service for registration of the employment contract. One such seven-day term will save the National Revenue Agency the complications and will avoid further burdening operations that aggravate both the work of the institutions and the work of employers, so the seven-day term is good. There were arguments that this increase in the deadline was not necessary because employers had an electronic signature, but I do not consider this argument to be valid because of 340 "350 thousand companies, if we make one reference, they do not have more than 10% of them have such electronic signatures. And more arguments. The three-day period was introduced a long time ago, the idea being that the registration period should be short and that it should have a disciplinary objective on employers in order to get used to the obligation to register these employment contracts. Since then, it has been a long time, and today, if we take stock, we can say that this idea has done its job, and employers have become accustomed to the obligation to register contracts. Currently, it can be argued that the three-day period is short and with the delay, non-compliance with this deadline becomes a formal reason for breach of labour law. For most of the cases of infringements, it is objective reasons, and I will point out again, most often in small companies where administrative capacity is lacking. And another argument by the opponents of this proposal that we are violating workers' rights. I will even literally say what a colleague in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy said: If the employer is willing and loyal, what is the problem in the first days of this contract to be sent to the NRA? Why only prolong this agony for the worker and the employee? Of course, agony is very strong, even inappropriate at the very least because the employee's rights do not arise from the registration of the contract at the National Revenue Agency, but from the act of signing it itself. From the moment of signature, the worker and the employee have all the rights and obligations arising from the very nature of the contract The registration of these employment contracts in the National Revenue Agency does not protect the interests and rights of workers and employees, but the interests of the state to pay insurance, that is to say defend the interests of the budget. In conclusion, I would say that we strongly support the proposal to increase the registration period to seven days, although the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee accepted the GERB's proposal to drop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u170	The line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, just a few counterarguments against the arguments that you have expressed. There is no symmetry between the seven days you are talking about, at the end of the employment relationship and these seven days you are offering now. Why is there no symmetry and there shouldn't be? Because labour relations start after two documents are in place. One is a notification from the National Revenue Agency, the other is a contract of employment. When there are these two documents, then the labour relations will begin. The sooner this happens, the better for the worker, because his labour law and social protection starts from the moment the employment contract starts. From there on, everything else I think is unnecessary and it is no coincidence that the Commission has proposed what I have just read.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u172	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u173	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dr. Ademov, I am far from wanting to argue with you on these matters. However, I will say a few thoughts on this issue. For example, the payment of insurance comes from the date of signature of the contract, regardless of whether the contract is registered three days after that. As for symmetry, you understand that in the legislation in Bulgaria there are meaningless, some different deadlines and people are constantly mistaken at least at the beginning of adoption of this legislation. I'll give you an example of the seven-day deadline. If a person quits work and the next day starts working with another employer, the next employer has a three-day registration period and the previous seven-day registration period. It gets a little interesting what's going on. Again, it's not that important. I think even if the three-day deadline stays, it wouldn't be such a big deal. The arguments with which the proposal for the seven-day term is rejected, I think they are not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u174	Any other MPs? Procedure Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u175	Mrs. Chairman! Colleagues, I propose an extension of working hours until the adoption of a new § 16 of the bill under review. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u176	Back proposal, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u177	Colleagues, we have very important committees. I suggest we don't do these experiments. The law is long enough, interesting and heavy, and discussional. Against me is the chairman of one of the committees, Grozdan Karadjov is here. Four ministers and one attorney general at 2:00 a.m. are waiting for you to begin. The Economic Commission also has important things at 2:00 p.m. Come on, please, let's not give it away as Komsomols. It's okay. There's a consensus under the law. Don't worry, he'll be admitted tomorrow. In return, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u178	I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the time. They voted 119 MPs: 15 against 42, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. To speak the word has Mr. Slavov. [[Relations and noise in the hall.]] Please, colleagues, Mr. Slavov has the floor. The theme of the extension of the plenary session ended with the announcement of the outcome. Please, no more debate from place to place!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, from the Reformation Block, we will strongly support the proposal for an extension of the notification period under art. 62. I would like to point out to you that this is not only about the conclusion of a contract, but also about its amendment, that is, the employer himself may have to run to the NRA quite often and make such notifications. Especially for a small firm, it doesn't matter how much time they have to do this thing. You know, in a small firm the manager, respectively, the accountant deals with at least five or six other things and wonders which requirement his Law imposes in a short time to meet, to do first. I also draw your attention to the fact that there are sanctions for non-compliance with this deadline. The Labour Code explicitly states that infringements under this provision cannot be treated as minor, i.e. a minimum delay within one day may be severely sanctioned by the Revenue Agency authorities and, in fact, a small private business seriously to suffer from the Law on something minor in practice, which has put it in a rather strict framework. Let us give extra breath to small businesses, especially micro and small businesses and extend this period from three to seven days. The extension is not really important and significant, but it will be appreciated, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u180	First line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u181	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Slavov, I hear arguments about how in a small company the manager should keep running around. Obviously, since she's young, there won't be an employee in charge of the appointment. It used to be a personal staff, now it's a footage, whatever you want to name it. Agree that a small company will not employ workers every day or change the terms of the contract. During the first reading, it was mentioned that the average number of employees of companies is between five and six people, up to nine people. Of course, if it is a large company, where the turnover is large, it was state-owned, it was private, there are the relevant employees appointed precisely for this. The three-day deadline has already been imposed. In this way, the hypotheses are also avoided when, in the form of a seven-day registration period, people who work seven days are then released. This also happens when serving in restaurants, restaurants, in construction. Let us not open an opportunity to abuse this deadline. Small companies do not employ people every day or do not modify their contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u182	Vladislav Nikolov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's absolutely pointless change, mate. I'll explain. If you make a reference to the NRA, the notifications after appointment, i.e. the release of the employment contract, ninety-several percent are released electronically. To extend the term of seven days does not make any sense, moreover, that the worker starts work when the Code of Labour is respected... when he receives his contract of employment and the notification in writing that he has been appointed. It's by the Labor Code. We're just gonna slow the worker down for seven days. It doesn't make sense. It makes sense to get fired, and the deadline is seven days. It is therefore thought out and there are various reasons why this seven-day period can be used. The three-day term, first of all, people are used to this deadline, second "I think it is long against the background of what is happening in Bulgaria in the last three or four years with the entry of the electronic signature. Absolutely pointless change.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u184	Third line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, as you can see, at the second paragraph, we are going into debate. I said this Law is important for a reason, but my line is to my colleague Slavov. Colleague Slavov, I realize that this amendment can only be realized and made sense by people who have been directly involved in the real economy. It's the only people who can make her realize. But what I'm replicating you for is that you had to very accurately and clearly explain to your colleagues that, in fact, small and medium-sized businesses are the backbone of a working economy once. The second thing is that the vast majority of employed workers under contract are precisely in the small and medium business, as said by colleague Petar Kanev. The statistics here are out of the question. It is not true what colleague Vladislav Nikolov said, because the contract of employment comes into force from the date of its signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u186	That's not true, that's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u187	It's the law! Believe me, I'm not talking to you. It doesn't matter when you sign him up with the NRA. The contract has a first binding clause: the date of signature. Believe me, this is a mandatory clause which is also regulated in the regulation which is being drawn up by the Council of Ministers on what an employment contract should contain. But I'll talk about it a little later when we get to art. 114a. We will also support, again, the deadline to be seven days. I don't see anything scary or why we have to get into such a complicated debate on something that won't cause any trouble for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u188	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I suggest for a moment that we put ourselves in the position of these people from the small and medium business and really think about all the things they are engaged in, with all the legal requirements for them, with all the declarations they submit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u190	Except to think and to read because the lines say things that are simply not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u191	I'll get to that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u192	Okay. I expect you to comment on Mr. Bayraktarov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u193	Putting ourselves in their shoes, let's really think that it doesn't matter one, two or three days for such a small and medium-sized business. Consider even in the situation a small-town business where there is no territorial directorate of the NRA, the person obviously does not have an electronic signature, he has to travel to the big city to register there notification, then return. It must do so in any modification of the employment contract. So things aren't as harmless as they might seem at first glance to the man in the big city. Furthermore, it is not said that since the deadline is seven days for the submission of the notification, it must be waited exactly seven days and then submitted. If it is really important for the employer to start this day, he will go and register it on the first day as long as there is a chance. But if there is an objective inability to do so and it has to be delayed, as I have called your attention, as it is now, for example, by four days, it will be severely sanctioned as this violation is not considered insignificant. I'm paying attention to you again. So let's really give it a little longer term. I don't think that's really a problem. I think you all understand the meaning of this provision that we cannot, on a back-to-back basis, write employment contracts. When the Labour Inspectorate came to check, for example, and said: "Where is your employment contract for this employee? " That is the point of this provision. Whether it's three or seven days, it's important to submit a notification to the NRA. This confirms that the contract is indeed concluded when it is claimed. Indeed, there has been a dispute between colleagues here, which is certainly the date of conclusion of a contract, but the admission to the place of employment of the employee in question is explicitly said to occur after the notification has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u194	Personal explanation of Vladislav Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u195	I'm out. I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-06-24.u196	Okay. Colleagues, there are more people who want to make speeches. It's 2:00. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
