ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of Parliament, before the beginning of today's plenary session, let us congratulate our compatriots Muslims on their great feast, Ramadan Bajram! Let's wish them health and prosperity! Let us all, with our deeds, continue to be an example of tolerance and mutual respect together! To be united in the difficult path to the creation of the present and responsible and wise for the future! We have to do this as a message for future generations, and they have to be carriers of human, responsibility and solidarity in our society! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]] Today we continue with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FIRE. On yesterday, we voted to § 17 included. Mr. Hristov, please proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Before I go any further, please, on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 to put to the vote the admission to the Chamber of Assoc. Georgi Kostov Deputy Minister of Agriculture, and Eng. Tony Krastev...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u3	They've been admitted since yesterday. They're allowed in, aren't they?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u4	Yeah. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u5	Previously on One Message: On the basis of art. 82 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, importers of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, vc. No. 554-01-132, they said they were withdrawing the bill. These are the MPs Stefan Danailov, Chavdar Georgiev, Georgi Gokov, Yanaki Stoilov, Dimitar Gorov, Stoyan Mirchev, Georgi Svilenski and Mariana Boyadjieva. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u6	The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 1 the Union or the Union shall be replaced by a comma and after the word the Municipality shall be added by the manager of the municipal forest structure under art. 181, para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iii) 2. The creation of para. 4. The term referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 may be extended in the event of circumstances impeding the inspection of the clearing. The extension shall be carried out in writing by the relevant regional forestry directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u7	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u8	§ 10 is proposed by the MP Rumen Zhelev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 after the words. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and 2. In para. 7 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." forced cuttings. 3. The creation of para. 8. The use of wood in forests which are owned by more than one natural and legal person may only take place under written notary consent of at least half of the property owners.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 10 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 19. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The Commission's version of § 10 by importer, which becomes § 19 by its report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u10	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal, which consists of the following: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: A new paragraph 3 shall be set up: "Minimum 50% of the sale of wood under para. 1, t. 2 of the forestry territories state ownership is carried out by sale from a central warehouse.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u11	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u12	I propose art. 116 drop out. The motives are as follows. In view of the enormous public importance of forest resources, I propose art. 116 of the Forest Law to remove the possibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u13	We are currently discussing your proposal in art. 112 for the creation of a new para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u14	My motives are as follows. Dear colleagues, the sale of wood from central warehouses has proven to be a practical measure in both Romania and Turkey to remove wood from wood warehouses in the forest to more public places, such as central warehouses, where all the harvested material is brought and the disposal of it becomes much, much more transparent. The central warehouses are not made in larger settlements, but in open central areas in the forest or nearest the nearest settlement. This measure is convinced the experts who have consulted me could be introduced in a gradual way, with only large and medium-sized wood being included at the beginning. I do not propose the introduction of this measure immediately. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: 30, against 62, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u16	Proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is as follows: I propose art. 116 drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u17	Mr. Enchev, come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u18	I propose that Art. 116 be dismissed with the following motives. In view of the enormous public importance of forest resources, I propose that in this Article of the Forests Act the possibility of concluding long-term contracts for the award of timber and the sale of wood to root should be removed. First of all, long-term contracts do not solve any problem of the state, as you know that the use of state forests grows annually. Secondly, long-term contracts represent hidden concessions which, at higher corruption levels in the country, will lead to even lower control and more serious abuse than in short-term contracts. A witness to this is the recognised opportunity of the state or, more precisely, the recognised inability of the state to control the performance of the concession for the ski zone in Bansko in the National Park of Pirin, you remember that there were also protests; as well as the problems with long-term mining contracts in the cities of Trun and Etropole; not to mention hunting concessions in the Rhodopes, Strandzha and Stara Planina! I would also like to remind you what Romanian practice is. Romania's investigations prove the danger of significant abuse and the promotion of illegal logging in the monopolising of the forest sector by large companies that would only meet the requirements for long-term contracts. And something else like a motive that I think is very serious and should convince you to support this measure. It aims to ensure that forms of concessions which have proven to be extremely ineffective in the conditions of extremely weak state and administrative control and political dependence of state enterprises and control companies, which, as you know, lead to the uncontrolled overexploitation and plundering of state forests by state-owned companies with political protections, as have been demonstrated in the cases of state-owned enterprises and control companies, which, as you know, lead to the state-owned overexploitation and plundering of state-owned forests by state-owned companies with political protection, as have been demonstrated in the cases of state-owned companies, Botevgrad. And finally to say that even if there is no political will to drop art. 116 of the Forests Act, as you are likely to vote against the Forests Act, the Commission should consider the possibility of a temporary moratorium on the application of this Article until it is ensured and proven that forest control is effectively applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 112 MPs: 33, against 58, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u20	A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, and this is the following: Paragraphs 10a (c) and 10a (c) shall be created: 10a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the number 2. A new para is being created. 4. The procedure for the conclusion of contracts under para. 1 shall be carried out by the relevant State forestry or hunting holding. Procedures for the conclusion of contracts for the sale of technological wood may also be carried out in state-owned enterprises under art. 163..................................................................... 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126, para. 6 and the expression "prohibition" shall be replaced by an exception to allow for a period of up to three months. .................................................................................. Art. 147 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u21	Statements? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposals really aim to discipline the forest sector. They're in different directions. Firstly, since you did not support the proposal of Mr. Enchev, who proposed art. 116 related to long-term contracts to be dropped, at least support the proposal that we are making. It is related to a correction of art.116. It is about reducing the deadline for the conclusion of these contracts from 15 years, as is now stated in the Law, to 10 years. The reasons are that on state property, no matter what it is, procedures are conducted for a maximum of 10 years. When they are over 10 and in this case we are talking about 15 years, another law is transferred to the Law of concessions. I'd like to stress that again. This law does not have rules of application, that is, we give the forests a concession for 15 years with a tender procedure. The exceptions in the forest sector have become too many, which does not create transparent rules. All the cases that Mr. Enchev presented as already occurring in the sector really lead to serious abuse or a situation that currently has some companies with influence in the forestry sector. We propose to prevent this and the treaties from really being for 10 years. Another thing we propose is that the contract procedures should be carried out in the respective State forestry or hunting farms. Why? Because there are no rules. One year these procedures can be carried out by large forest enterprises. The next year, however, we are more comfortable and we are transferring them to other forest enterprises. Excuse me, but every year, according to what the principal has decided, procedures should be carried out at different levels, as in 2014 were conducted by state-owned forest enterprises. Also, there's no order. If there are no rules, then write in the Law imperative what you can and when you can and what are the conditions for one, the other or the third. We also propose, given the moratorium that was introduced by the National Assembly, this moratorium, as we can see, did not decide much of the questions, but in some short period of time we respectively limited the exports of wood. What is the problem, exceptionally, for the Minister of Agriculture to authorise the export of wood, where the market situation, the conditions of the internal market, respectively, allow this. There's plenty of information. The sector is state-owned. This information may accumulate and make the right decisions in order not to impose a moratorium when suddenly there is some serious problem and we have to adopt a moratorium very quickly in the National Assembly. And the last thing we offer in this paragraph is the complete cancellation of art. 147. Notice this article says that tenants and tenants of land properties in forest areas, state and municipal property may require temporary restrictions or prohibition of access to areas used by them where necessary to carry out their activities under contract. What are these contracts going to be, and when do they have to be, and who's to say we've been banning access for three months? Since these are still tenants, it is quite clear to me that these three months are not respected. Once given the permission, it becomes timeless. And the one who's...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u23	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u24	Look, you're probably going to replicate me now, but there's been a lot of complaints that there are fences, that there's no access to the forest areas. I'm sure you'll tell me other cases, but at least the media reflects absolutely everything related to the forest sector and with sound-likeness. So you should probably fight with them, because what I say I know from publications in the media. It's a subjective decision. The head of the forest enterprise suddenly decided: "We are surrounded for three months. For the state territories it can surely be respected, but these are tenants who cannot be controlled when and how they need three months and whether these three months are three years or during the entire term of the contract. And I do not see what the reasons might be for asking such a decision, provided that the Law is too general. When the contract is made, what kind of contract will it be? If possible, what will be the options for this contract? If you answer me, I might agree with you which options may be available to allow for a three-month fence in these territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u25	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I waited, I thought Mr. Enchev would justify his proposal, because these texts again concern the issue of exports of raw wood. His proposal does not entirely solve the issue, but it is an attempt to still add a certain value, to allow only state-owned enterprises to carry out such exports.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u27	I haven't presented the proposal yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u28	It's all about what they're talking about here. Yes, you will, but I am using it as it is the place to note that with the adoption of this Law the moratorium which was established for the export of raw wood is removed. And this issue stands not only in the area of forests. Many career materials are produced in Bulgaria. Most of them are exported without any treatment. A relatively large amount of grain is produced in Bulgaria and the dominant part of it is exported without producing any food products, and with this grain then we import expensive meat from abroad. And if we continue we will see that we are increasingly becoming an economy of primitive resources, because we do not even require primary processing of part of the material in the form of beams, boards or anything else, so Bulgaria is exhausting its last resources. Agriculture is liquidated in the first years, industry is destroyed, now much of what is left to be earned are now natural resources. Let them also destroy themselves, and then we can continue to liberalize ourselves, talk about how without an economy, income, pensions and so on. This is the result of the Law yes, some regulations on the control of wood mining are introduced. This is necessary, but in which Parliament will finally form a consciousness that we must create regulations that lead us to a productive, to a processing economy, to create added value, if not entirely, at least part of what is obtained by concessionaires, from others, to include such requirements in the contracts. There's no such policy. There's no such thing as consciousness. We cannot do it only by law, but in every law we must pay attention to these issues. The only thing we can do here is to support this, again I say, a compromise, partial proposal by Mr. Enchev, but I note that with what we do as legislative activity, we hardly contribute to a profound change in the way our economy is developing in forests and in the rest of agriculture and in the field of materials extraction and in other sectors. I appeal to you to address these questions. They're also questions to the government, but, again, if we don't overdo it, there's nothing special good waiting for us. We will stand as beggars to wait for some European funds to come and think that with this we will raise the economy, we will make Bulgaria a developed, modern and prosperous country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 40, against 44, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u30	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 126 is created a new para. 7. The export of raw timber obtained from forests owned by the State may only be carried out by the undertakings under art. 163 "..".........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u31	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u32	Dear colleagues, this text is perhaps the most discutable, but at the same time it is perhaps the most unifying one, because it is about state interests. What do I suggest? suppose the export of illegal trade. I propose the new para. 7 to read: The export of raw timber obtained from forests owned by the State may only be carried out by the enterprises under art. 163.................................................................................. Here are my motives for this proposal of mine. I propose to introduce a requirement that raw wood harvested in state forests be exported abroad only from state forest enterprises. Thus, by exercising its constitutional right to property, the state will increase not only its revenues, but will, above all, limit the mass corruption practice of illegally acquiring wood that is harvested to be transported to the border by power-sponsored logging companies and fences directly from the forest to the border. I specify: it is not about the return of socialism, it is not about restoration of old economic relations. We are talking about the revival of state beginnings in such a vital sector, which is being deforested before our eyes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have waited a long time for my fellow Members to speak so that in my speech I can cover most of them so that I do not get up every time and save time. I'll start with Mr. Enchev's proposal: at least 50% of the sale of wood...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u35	We've been through this, Mr. Zhelev. We're already on the final offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u36	On the last proposal: art. 126 The wood obtained in state-owned enterprises should only be exported from state-owned enterprises. The state forests in Bulgaria are currently 73 "74%," i.e. the main part of the harvested wood in the country is located right in the territory of the state enterprises under art. 163. The municipal and private forests are mainly for local populations. In this way, we kill the private initiative completely and put everything back into the hands of the state. With the amendments to this Law, I said yesterday, we are introducing a number of restrictions aimed at improving forest control. We introduce disposable plastic brands; we introduce forest plans and programs without which we cannot perform naked logging; we restrict the naked cutting in the cutting forests with natural renewal; we introduce GPS for the cars; we introduce video surveillance of the objects under art. 206; we take away licenses for one-off violations of individuals; we take away licenses and we fine companies for one-off offences and so on. But we still have to give the business a chance to breathe. One must impose sanctions to the extent that the sanctioned person can take over. He should be fined as much as he can take. If we have to kill him, we don't have to kill him entirely. I believe that Mr. Enchev's request is too strong. With regard to this, the Minister forbids exports by exception for up to three months, I have not met a more corrupt text since I have been in this National Assembly. I wish I could be the minister and know exactly when I'd decide to ban exports before that I'd settle with companies. This is absolutely impossible and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement the people representative Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to support this text because even Mr. Zhelev did not convince us at all with the measures taken that, you see, state property will get its realization. You said 73% of the forest fund is state. When you were an independent agency, you had the opportunity to accumulate between 40 and 50 million. lv. in the state budget after all the alimony took place. As a result of the reorganization at the moment, according to the Finance Ministry, the State's dividend for 2014 from state-owned forest enterprises is only 200 thousand. BGN, where two of the enterprises are losers. How does a state forest fund in the Southwestern enterprise, for example, with the largest resource it has, be a loser? Why?! Because they don't get wood because private initiative is important. Okay, we're in favour, but let the state also be able to exploit what it has as government property. True, state property remained in very small quantities and forests are one of those feathers in which private initiative is directed rapidly. Finally, you will say that there is no need for state forest enterprises, and private tenants or everyone else will control, store, brand. This is another topic that you have already entered about the measures you are taking. Apart from that, the Forest Executive Agency is on a budget subsidy. In order to be able to implement state policy in the public sector, to stop the auctions, which are in most cases known: 10 years old, or 1 year old, or 5 years old, the state must be able to process the wood and mine it, must be able to export it and realise the opportunity to obtain the revenue, to be able to make investments in the forest sector. Everything else that you are talking about is measures that do not lead to absolutely any positive outcome in any direction. I call on you, colleagues, this proposal is extremely resonant and will create one of the first steps for better governance of the forest sector by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u39	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Deputy Minister Kostov wants to clarify what this is about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the case-law, the wood from state-owned forest enterprises to be able to be exported only by them, I will give you the following example. All of you can buy wood from state forest enterprises. Here comes the season when you buy firewood. You can buy timber for other purposes. Do you have the right to carry some of this timber, even one log, out? You do, of course, because he's your property. The State's interests are protected by the sale and conclusion of a transaction under market conditions where this material has become owned by the natural or legal person concerned. We live in Europe in the 21st century, in the European Union. From now on, any such regulation reminds me of a time before 1989.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u41	Thank you, Deputy Minister Kostov. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor because, at first glance, the proposals made look really good. I will try to take you back 20 years in time when some of these measures worked in exactly this proposed way. What the Deputy Minister said in 1995 some of these measures worked this way were even more serious. Then there were auctions, there were people with huge bags of money, but what is really the subtext that I'm trying to explain to you today? If you allow, colleagues, only state-owned enterprises to export the wood, first, you create a corrupt environment because the state-owned enterprise has the full right to reinstate a relevant legal entity to carry out this export on its behalf. Simply put, this means creating an opportunity to create circles of companies.. what happened in 1995, 1996 to 1999. The forestry has passed into the hands of an economic, political, mafia group that we are trying to get rid of today. And with this text, which at first glance seems very good to give the raw material the opportunity, because raw wood is a raw material, to process in the country, to open jobs, to create added value, what Mr. Stoilov is talking about, but this is a completely different process. So I came out to tell you this as a man who went through this road, a man who did this kind of work. I say think about it. That's not a good option. The good option is to have very serious control that limits the maximum exported raw material because wood is a strategic raw material. To create conditions for this raw material to be processed in Bulgaria, not to try to create from some seemingly nice texts an opportunity to create new hoops. Imagine what would happen. If you are one of the people of the head of the state enterprise, you have no problem. But if you're not, what happens? That's why I'm telling you, legally, you can't limit this process. Not to mention he's bizarre. We need someone to go and negotiate the export of the outside counterparty. I won't get to what Mr. Zhelev said about creating a monopoly. This is the creation of the new hoops, which we must not allow. That happened once. Now we have to get rid of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the People's Representative Valeri Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! I feel like we switched roles. It makes no sense for the opposition to want state-owned enterprises to become profitable at the moment. Aren't there drivers?! Two days ago, the Prime Minister complained that he was short of money. A moment ago, the colleague Bachvarova explained how one of the richest state enterprises in resources is lost, which is logically absurd, but it is an accounting reality. Do we have to convince you to stay money in the state?! You're in charge, it's your responsibility. We're not talking about any monopoly here! Just now, my colleague Bajraktarov spoke about the 1990s. The entire wood processing industry has been destroyed. Units are in business right now. I would like to ask one of the major specialists to announce how much investments are in the woodworking industry over the last ten years and what investments there are. To list businesses, they are pretty clear what they are, what they are processing at the moment, what the exports of processed products are and which markets they are going to. It is clear that raw wood is being exported. It's natural in this way to suffer the forests. What's keeping you from making state-owned enterprises profitable right now? On the issue of monopoly. Excuse me, but we're looking at some electricity distribution companies that have a monopoly and who win by all means. Only this monopoly is right, and the other one is harmful. How do we divide these monopolies?! So one can capture the meter and write you what they want, and the other can't become a monopoly to export and the money to the state. But when the opposition tries to convince the government of this, something is wrong in the country itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u46	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I will remind you of these state enterprises, which you are talking about at the moment: The factory "Georgi Dimitrov" produced the so-called PAP plates; The factory "Vasil Sotirov" produced kitchen furniture; The factory "Gocho Ivanov"; the plants in Peshtera. [[Reply of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] But you're missing one small detail. These factories were working with imported wood. It was imported from Comi ASSR because it was twice cheaper than Bulgarian wood.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u47	Is that bad?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u48	Twice as cheap! Explaining factology. I said this model once worked and created the hoops of companies by transferring the forests into the hands of a political mafia structure that we are trying to get rid of today. Once again, there is no legal obstacle to the state-owned enterprise giving power to which it wants a legal person and to carry out the exports on its behalf. And you know what? Not only will there be no profit, but some of this profit will be used in the form of an external service cost, what you insinuate and give an example of energy. You have, by the way, a very good expert in this area, which was among the BSP. Look for him. He'll explain all these things to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u49	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u50	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! There are a few questions here about what you're talking about. On the issue of external concessions, which have been acquired by the Bulgarian State and which have been addressed, I would like to explain to you that there have not only been such concessions in Comi. Concessions were also found in Central Africa. Until 1989, specific types of wood were brought in. Until then, the furniture industry worked with these concessions. The fact that one of you has only heard of Comi is another topic. A second point to which I would like to draw your attention to why there are no concessions now? Who on the Bulgarian side will come to an auction in Congo to win a concession for exotic wood? What is this enterprise that's going to appear? Perhaps the bullfighters of the northern collar of the Rhodope Mountains will appear to win such auctions and bring in the ships with the wood?! It's not serious stuff. The issue is in this amendment to have viable large business units that can appear in auctions, earn and deposit money in the state budget. I'm really sorry, but this issue is entirely from the ruling party's portfolio. And to tell you the truth, by 2009, these enterprises have contributed 50 million each. lv. annual in the state budget. You're explaining how we're gonna grant someone else a concession to do it. But where does the profit go? What about these charities where they take the concessions and export?! Where's the profit going? You explain the negotiation. Who goes to negotiate with foreign counterparties? Who does business? There were companies that were engaged in the commercial activity and carried out a single state policy in the industry.. both in the furniture industry and in the timber industry and in the processing. Who now pursues political activity? You won't get a price for that. The lowest prices offered are from the Bulgarian market. How effective is it? Zero. Please look a little deeper at the question, not at who will give whom a concession and how many bricks you will load into a truck. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches? Deputy Minister Kostov wants to take an attitude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry I have to take the floor twice. Some things have been said that do not fully correspond to reality. I must say that the Southern Central Forest Enterprise is at a loss for 2014. This is due to the fact that the former director of the company left 9 million. lv. in KTB. Therefore, the entity is at an accounting loss. The management of the undertaking with this accounting loss was neither at the time of the current government nor the appointment of the director was carried out by the current government.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u53	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u54	There was a question like that. As far as the efficiency of state forest enterprises is concerned, the balance was as follows: the State gave 135 million and received 100 million. In fact, it was a budget statement. At the moment, the state is giving 20 million to support the Forest Agency, which has a sign of less if we take it out of the budget; and it receives dividends, it receives forest roads, an accumulated investment fund in forests of 60 million. lv. and all the other investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. To speak, the public representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you'll excuse me for wasting a little of your time. At the beginning of March, we voted on a moratorium. Against my market logic, I supported this moratorium with the idea that with it we are imposing an obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to introduce measures to limit the uncontrolled logging and uncontrolled exports of wood, as the media reported from morning to evening. I would like to say to you that, for the period when the moratorium was imposed, the price of wood for However, the wood that was exported to Turkey, to Greece, which is poor wood, is not processed in Bulgaria and which is for fire. This is what we have achieved with this moratorium. The prices of wood in Bulgaria for processing are medium European and there is a shortage of wood. The investments in the sector are tens of millions and perhaps hundreds, Mr. Zablyanov. I'm saying it's responsible because I do woodwork. Due to a shortage of wood, I have to import raw wood from Romania. The wood shortage for the wood processing industry is clear and everyone knows it. To say that we allow uncontrolled exports of wood that can be processed in Bulgaria is not true. Take a look at the reference. A very small percentage of the wood that goes abroad is not processed, it is suitable for processing in Bulgaria. The proposal to return a business enterprise is your old dream? You offer it repeatedly. What's usually going on? We are making an economic undertaking, by the way, to reinstate the economic activity of the State which is a bad owner and has proved it will definitely not be supported by this ruling majority. What are we doing? We make a business enterprise, we buy equipment, after three years we decide that it does not work well; we sell this technique and maybe when buying someone takes commissions, when selling someone also takes commissions. The current ruling majority will not put the state back into a sector where there is established market relations. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u57	A line? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u58	I allow myself to say it with an apology and regret, and with respect to you, but you yourself have stated that you are in conflict of interest. That statement of yours...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u59	That's why I don't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u60	Yeah, and that's why you don't vote. Your very statement shows that you are in a severe conflict of interest that is not in favor of the state. You yourself claim to export or rather import wood from a neighbouring country. I ask you very much in the future to make such statements before the vote... Your own statements show that the Commission you led was essentially manipulated in the interests of private interests. I'm not saying that you did, but subjectively I need that impression in me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u61	Any other lines? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I witnessed an absurdity. In fact, the state in the face of the President of the Commission said that it would not let the state win, process wood, pour some money into the state treasury at all. Why? Because there are private interests there! That's what we've all witnessed here today, from this tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u63	Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! This is what we're talking about. If Mr. Hristov is in conflict of interest, it makes no sense to continue reading the report. Our proposal is to change the rapporteur because I think things are obvious. The second thing I want to say: if this is how we're going to drive it, that is, anyone who has any personal interest in it, whether it be commercial or someone else, to take a portfolio from the state and distribute their commissions, we are not a parliament here! We are some other meeting that deals with coordination of private interests and their introduction into legislation. Our job, once again, I would like to remind you, is to defend the public interest, the interest of the state, in the first place. If someone believes that the state cannot participate in the market, go to a superliberal state such as the Netherlands and check the percentage of state enterprises and their participation in the domestic turnover of the country to understand what it is about, including in sectors such as utilities, transport and so on. I'm sorry, what we're being offered right now is absurd that state-owned enterprises can't profit from their own activities and give it to someone else! I can't understand the opposition's letter to Mr. Borisov that we should write to get him acquainted with the situation. He said he didn't have enough money. That's what I heard two days ago on TV. He is short on money, while some gentlemen explain how the state budget cannot receive money because we will spoil the competition. What kind of competition are we gonna spoil?! Don't you know there's no competition there?! Don't you know that prices there are otherwise determined?! And that's a butaforite competition and a butaphorical market!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My duty as MP is to declare the possible existence of a conflict of interest. I have done so in writing in all the Commission meetings in which I have not voted, and I do not vote in plenary. As regards the reading of the report, I propose that Commission Vice-President Tsveta Karayancheva continue with its reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u67	You don't have to do this, but okay. Are there any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 91 MPs: 28 against 50, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u68	Paragraph 11? a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the A proposal from the MP Borislav Milanov and a group of MPs. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u69	They're withdrawing the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u70	The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148 are created. 12 and 13: s) Freight vehicles transporting wood and non-woody forest products, as well as mobile sites under art. 206, shall be fitted with correct and functioning devices for positioning and tracking their movement (GPS). The procedure for granting access to vehicle traffic information shall be determined by the Regulation under para. 11. (13) When the vehicles under para. 1 pass through agricultural territories, the person to whom a document under para. 2, p. 1, 3 and 4 sends it to the mayor at the respective locality before the start of the activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which is edited by the Commission and in the report is § 20. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 20 of the committee report was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u72	Under § 12, there is a proposal from Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u73	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which shall, after editing the Commission in its report, become § 21. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 21 of the committee report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u74	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev "In Article 165, para. 5, t. 4 shall be amended as follows: the acquisition of wood up to 25, but not less than 10% of the annual use for the respective territorial unit under the conditions laid down in the ordinance under art. 95, para. 1 and in coordination with the Minister of Agriculture and Food or a person authorised by him to work with the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u75	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u76	The reasons for this proposal are as follows. These measures aim to cross the possibilities for corruption schemes leading to illegal logging and, secondly, not more important, the logging to be separated from the wood trade, as at the present time in the Forests Act, unfortunately, enables state-owned enterprises to obtain up to 25% of the annual use with their own workers. There are still state enterprises, I say again, unfortunately, in which there is not a single brigade to perform this work, which, naturally, allows traders to blackmail businesses, and the latter to feel like renters making their wages out of using in the state forests. It seems to me that it is quite logical for the Commission and for you to accept this proposal. I hope that you will vote differently from the vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u78	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, from experience and in contacts with the forest authorities in the Rhodope region, which are entirely of the opinion that the MP Velizar Enchev offers, and I am on this platform to support it. I'll tell you why. You know, when businesses do the auctions, there are places that are in bad areas. We have created situations for which at the moment I spoke that the Law is not working, an enterprise is a mailbox to distribute interests, really, and feed some officials with good status. The forest authorities offer from 10 to 25% what has been auctioned and do not want the companies that were in the tender to be produced in a business way. This is how the plan is implemented, and so more revenue comes into the country. I will ask the Deputy Minister, I will surely ask him a question when he does an analysis of last or previous years under the plan that has been implemented or in the auctions that have been played in the hard-to-reach areas, is there a performance by the companies of what they received at auction? I won't! There's really no way! I want to share that these things are extremely useful because the people representative Velizar Enchev believes and we support him, including if you sit down and talk to the forest authorities, you will see that it is in the interest of the state. Another, honourable Members. You must be contacting and working in your constituencies with the forest authorities. What does the law create? The company chooses the company and then it goes as a master on the farm and says: "Give me this and this forest! Since these are people on whom wages are to be paid, we have made dependents through these mailboxes of enterprises all forest employees. I therefore call again on you to listen to all the proposals that are being made. They are in the interest of justice, in the relationship to forest management and in the relationship not to have corrupt practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Until now, the current law art. 165, para. 5, t. 4 supplied wood production of up to 25% of the annual use can carry out state forest farms independently for the respective territorial unit under conditions laid down in the Ordinance under art. Ninety-five. And now the law gives every state forestry right to yield up to 25% of its annual yield on its own. It's a matter of choosing the farm whether it does it or not, but it doesn't forbid it. Now with the text that Mr. Enchev proposes, we oblige them at least 10% necessarily to get with their own workers. They should definitely sell the wood in a temporary warehouse. That's 10 million cc's, that's 10,000. km. How do you load and overload, sir? Can you imagine visually how this thing works? The state must definitely export! What about the small and medium-sized business that we all know is the backbone of the economy and that we all care about so much? If they want the farms, no one's stopping them from doing it now. What are these mandatory texts? Ten percent and no movement?! No one prevents the state, in the face of state forest enterprises, from winning, and now they're winning. The forest system has never been in better financial condition than it is now. It's interesting how people who have hardly entered the forest begin to explain how things are there. I am strongly opposed to the proposal submitted and we call on the audience to support the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u81	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. - What's the line? Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u82	None of the opposition can and does not want to be against small and medium business. On the contrary, we only want one country to enter the Bulgarian forest, which is currently in possession, precisely in the hands of the big business.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u83	Any other lines? I won't. Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge, Mr. Zhelev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u84	I do not support Mr. Enchev's claim that the forest is owned by the big business because it does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u85	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 29, against 50, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u86	Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: Paragraphs 12a (c) shall be created: 12a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 163 para. 3 is amended as follows: The areas of activity of the state enterprises under para. 1 and their offices shall be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food. ...... 12b............................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165 the following amendments 1. para. Four is canceled. 2. para. 5 becomes para. 4 and the following amendments and additions shall be made to it: (a) in the introductory phrase after the word (b) c. 4 a comma shall be placed after.25 and the expression no less than 10 shall be added. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 12. propose to the Council of Ministers to establish and close the territorial divisions of state enterprises and to determine the area of action and their headquarters. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u87	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal that we have made, namely the areas of activity of state enterprises and their seats, to be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Our proposal is indeed to raise the status of these enterprises, both forest and hunting, as these appointments currently take place with a decision of the board of directors. Clearly, people in the industry know very well how these appointments work. Therefore, the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture for a decision of the Council of Ministers, we believe that there will be much more weight, responsibility, publicity, so that society, seeing as a decision of the Council of Ministers, understand how these appointments are done, on the one hand. On the other hand, the responsibility to be taken on a much higher level, as is the Council of Ministers. Our proposal is to support the proposal made by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. We appeal to you for a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Danev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 23, Against 47, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u90	Proposal of the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172, para. 1, t. 10 at the beginning is added to the responsibility and the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u91	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission proposal to create a new § 22 together with the content of the paragraph, according to the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposal to create a new § 22 together with its content on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u93	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the text of the importer for § 13, which is supported by the Commission, and becomes § 23 in its report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 23 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u94	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In § 14 t. 2 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. In para. 3 after the word "suppliership', the expression "supplied for the protection of forest areas owned by natural or legal persons or their associations' shall be added and the term "supplied' or municipalities in which these territories fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u95	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 25, against 41, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which in the Commission report is § 24 and is supported by it. In turn, 86 MPs voted: 72 against 13, abstention 1. The text for § 24 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u96	There is a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198 is a new para. 4. The contracts for the appointment of forest inspectors shall be concluded with a remuneration of not less than three minimum wages.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u97	Mr. Enchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u98	At the end of the meeting before the break is actually the most important question about money. I propose all this because the forest inspectors in Bulgaria are unjustly damaged in financial terms. I propose that the forestry inspectors of the Regional Forest Directorates receive three basic salaries and additional material incentives, according to the effectiveness of their control activities, since at the moment, honourable Members, forestry workers in the farms receive twice as much monthly income as inspectors, and you cannot expect from the people who are the real policemen, if I must express myself figuratively, of the protection of the forest, of the wood, to receive such miserable wages, which currently vary somewhere, as I have received official information from a high-ranking ministry official, about BGN 600-700, but with the additions. Their salary is essentially between BGN 400 and BGN 500. You can't have a guy with 500 levs. to protect state property for hundreds of millions! I know there's no money. I know what I'm proposing is difficult to implement and execute. I can see that. I am fully aware of the problem of the government, but let's find an opportunity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u99	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zhelev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is often a repeated thesis lately that forest workers in enterprises receive twice as much as forest inspectors, which, to date, does not correspond to the truth. Their wages are almost even. A forest inspector gets really 600 and 650 BGN. This is the salary of the forest guard in the state enterprise and any territorial unit. Furthermore, I welcome, but it is de facto impossible in practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u101	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. Mr. Enchev, will you take advantage of your right? No. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 24, against 42, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We're breaking the bill. We'll continue the next session. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov will be the first to respond. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u102	Let's say good day to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period 10-16 July 2015: - a request from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, on the policy of the Ministry of Health of Emergency Medical in the country, should be answered in the plenary session on 24 July 2015; - a request from the National Representative Dora Yankova to Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, on the construction of a geothermal heating system in Zlatograd, should be answered in the plenary session on 24 July 2015; - a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev to Ivaylo Kalfin - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy, on demographic policy and measures to deal with youth unemployment, should be answered in the plenary session on 24 July 2015. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Radoslav Stoychev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Silvia Hubenova and Dimitar Bajraktarov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on two questions from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Irena Kotseva, Galya Georgieva and Petar Bekov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Vassilev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the poor representatives Dimitar Boychev and Semir Abu Melih. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Welcome to the procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u103	No, Mr. Chairman, it's a procedure in the manner of conduct. Please tell Mrs. Tsacheva that I object to her decision to return all questions of parliamentary control without justification. I'm taking occasion from the last case, and I'm referring to art. 91 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which says that the Prime Minister is asked questions concerning the government's activities. I would like to express here my arguments why I am using an objection procedure, which I will also form in writing, of course. I asked the Prime Minister the question concerning the adoption of a decree by the Council of Ministers. He was returned to me with the argument that it was Mr. Goranov's job to minister of finance. Prime Minister, allow me to take this opportunity that you are here to meet a problem that I find serious and ask for your solution...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u104	Is this the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u105	The procedure is in the manner of conduct, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u106	...through my arguments why I don't agree to get my question back. Mr. Prime Minister, from 1993 to today all governments...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u107	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u108	Okay, I'll remodel it. Ms. Tsacheva, in absentia, I do not agree with you returning the question, because it is within the competence of Mr. Borisov, because from 1993 until now all prime ministers have submitted decrees of the Council of Ministers,...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u109	There's no answer, she's gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u110	...which solves the aid for transport costs...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u111	She's gone, she can't answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u112	Please don't call from the gym. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u113	...for the supply of bread and essential goods for settlements in mountain areas and with a small number of residents up to 500. For the first time in 2015, colleagues, here in the budget we set this aid of three million and six hundred thousand. The Council of Ministers must adopt the order for the distribution of these funds in order to have bread for people in mountain settlements. From the shorthand of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Borisov, it is clear that you do not reach agreement with each other. You transfer the responsibility of the Bulgarian Post Offices to supply the people, Mr. Moskovski refuses, Mr. Kalfin says: It is not within my competence [[the President signals that time has run out]] And Mr. Goranov, we'll see about that. To this day 1646 small settlements are without bread, 375 companies are waiting for this help to deliver them bread... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u114	Time, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u115	If anyone can tell me whose jurisdiction this is, if it isn't the Prime Minister's, please answer me. Mr. Borisov, I'm using the case, I'm giving you all the arguments and written materials about what I'm saying I'm right. I ask you to make a decision because my challenge to this issue in Parliament will go to October, and until then, in these small settlements, there will be no living person. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] I am giving you these materials in the hope that when you resolve this matter more quickly, you will also disprove my doubt that you are holding this issue for the purpose of local elections, so that in October you can influence these people for other purposes and otherwise. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. If the President of the National Assembly Tsetska Tsacheva has not heard from you, I will tell her. The first question is to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and he is from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on the participation of academics in the work of the Bulgarian government. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! It is obvious for everyone the need to modernize the management and development of a high-tech Bulgarian economy. It is only so that our country can receive its due respect from its partners, and our people can receive a worthy present and future. World practice has shown that the most successful mechanism for realising this goal is the search for original solutions in the economy and stimulating innovation. This can only happen in close interaction between the government and those who create new knowledge. At the end of your previous term of office on 9 January 2013, you, Prime Minister, announced that you invited the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Rectors of the leading universities to attend every Wednesday at the Council of Ministers to receive timely expert assistance on the topics on which the government is working. It receives, as they say, both strategic analyses and forecasts and expert opinions. At the same meeting you commissioned the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to develop material on the point of Good Neighborhood with Macedonia. The developed document was used by all the governments of the service and political sector, which ruled in the coming years. Your decision has given rise to a good practice which has been suspended due to the termination of your previous term. In this regard, I ask you to answer: will you restore your practice from the previous term of office to invite the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Rectors of the leading universities to the meetings of the government? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u118	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Dear Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u119	Dear Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stanilov! A lot of practices have been interrupted, some good, some bad. Every Wednesday at the Council of Ministers, we invite regional governors, mayors. Through you, after asking the question, and from this tribune, please pass on to the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Rectors, and we will also send them a letter that they are welcome every Wednesday at 10:00 so that they can listen and use their expert and intellectual potential. It just hasn't occurred to me, thank you for sharpening it for me. From this tribune, I invite them. You tell them. We will also send them a letter telling them to have it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u121	Your brief answer, Prime Minister, satisfies in the literal sense of my question to you. He should be interested in such activity. I just want to say that in other countries this is a regular practice. In Hungary under Constitution, the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is a member of the government with similar rights as a regular minister. He's always there. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which has been developed at a very high level, its organization has come from the time of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, is in direct aid of the government. Our Academy of Structure is the same as her. I believe that attention should be paid once again to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and to those universities that will receive the government's intentions to make a new Law on Higher Education, Madam President of the Committee on Education and Science, to have research universities in Bulgaria, those who can do so in order not to waste money, I believe, Mr. Prime Minister, that in the coming years you will pay particular attention to the financing of this work. I think that if you really do this, I will follow this activity, much will win both the government and the country, and of course all your constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u122	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Mr. Prime Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u123	No, but I want to say something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u124	Let us thank you then for participating in today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u125	Can I say a few important things in response to Mrs. Ninova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u126	The rules don't forbid it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u127	Mr. Iankov's procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u128	There are rules, Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I'm using the ability to conduct a procedure. Through you, Mr. Glauchev, I return to the President of the National Assembly a written reply received from the Minister of Interior, as the information is not properly provided. Minister Bachvarova will be acquainted with how are duplicated data specified for 2015 as different numbers. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "What does this have to do with the way we conduct?."]] There is no answer to the question on the grounds that an assessment of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior is still being carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u129	Thank you. I'll pass it on to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u130	Let Mrs. Tsacheva know that when there are questions from the ministers, to examine them how correct they are and whether they answer the question of the MP. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u131	She certainly fulfilled her obligation. [[Extending loud noise and lines from GERB.]] Prime Minister, you want the floor? The word is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u132	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ninova! I'm using the procedural technique that I'm entitled to a statement so I don't break your rules. We have that money in the budget. I have now assigned to the Minister of Finance: will there be any inquiries at all, because they say there are no such inquiries at the moment. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Wait a minute, consider this an answer to your question. In a few days, I will send you a written answer on what we have decided. If you want, you can ask it to me the next time I come to the blitz control you're holding. If you'll allow me, with all due respect, I'll take it very carefully, I don't remember when that happened. When I get home, I'll check it out. I am taking this opportunity to introduce the parliament to the so-called "Three Pack" plan for the rescue of Greece as a timeline and action of the government. I think this is the place. I'll take the liberty of reading a few things to be extremely accurate. A few days ago, there was an Ecofin. For those who do not know, this is the meeting of the finance ministers in Brussels. There was proposed a mechanism to relax the bailout 7 billion plan for Greece. Of course, all the things you learned from the media were spoken there. Our position there was against. Subsequently, with only us left against, we set a number of requirements that would put us in the 28 countries that would support it. The European Commission has also done what is necessary in written e-mails and in the talks I have had with the European Commission several times, they have accepted that there are absolute guarantees. Since terminology is strictly financial, I have called with me the Finance Minister, he to answer as an argument what this means. Bulgaria, participating in this plan, has no chance of losing, paying or removing money from its own budget for the rescue of Greece. We are simply taking part in a mechanism, and right now, with what the European Commission is giving and guaranteeing, this mechanism can be used. Our "no" has been heard very clearly among all European countries. Everyone's fear is that by giving that 7 billion. Once again, I hope that those who applauded them have understood what they have done to their country and whether it will be able to fulfill them at all. Everyone's fear is great. Even greater fear of me and yours should be, as neighbours of Greece, is that if the anarchy and the deterioration of the situation and the crisis there continues, it is not controlled, it is a direct threat to Bulgaria and to the business, to our borders, to the migration pressure, to the smuggling and to the finances, if you will. I think I've been given absolute guarantees, but very finely written, so fine that I have to stare. The finance minister will read the official e-mail we have to us by the European Commission to know it and to know what our principle position is. Come, Goran, read. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u133	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u134	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u135	I'll stand by him so he can read the statement. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u136	It's important.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u137	This is the place, and these are the people you need to hear so you can comment if you have to. Let us not be more holy than the pope I suggest.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u138	Colleagues, I presume you don't mind? The subject is really very important and up-to-date. Minister Goranov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A non-standard procedure, but we wanted to present the official position of the government on the subject of bridge financing from the so-called financial stability mechanism of all the Member States of the European Union, which will be used as a guarantee mechanism for bridge financing of the Greek State, so that it can meet within the maximum time limit the obligations it has to the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. This guarantee mechanism provides for the general European budget to be a guarantor in the case of a possible defolt under the allocation of EUR 7 billion. 160 million. Euros. This is the proposal for the next few weeks before the Eurozone countries use the large financing mechanism for the third package that the Hellenic Republic will use to stabilise its banking system and finances, to stabilise its economy in general with the package of measures voted on in the Greek Parliament. In the beginning, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria expressed very strong reservations about the use of this mechanism, as a common European mechanism and not such a mechanism of the countries of the Eurozone. In the case of communication in the format of EFC, in which Bulgaria is represented by the Deputy Minister of Finance, we have expressed a firm position that whatever measures are taken and that this mechanism should be structured should not lead to future commitments of Bulgaria for direct financial assistance to the Hellenic Republic. The stated firm position by the Bulgarian side provokes a debate between the Member States and the Member States of the Eurozone, and the Commission. We have regulatoryly strengthened commitments that, even in the event of a default procedure under this advance bridge loan for Greece from the European Financial Stability Mechanism, the Member States of the Eurozone will fully compensate for the losses for the European budget as a result of the activation of a similar guarantee free flush of Greece. Until the last moment, the United Kingdom stood firm that these commitments had to be legislative, regulatoryly firm. We stuck to that position. Today, after intensive communication in the last few days, we have confidence and will support the use of this mechanism for the last time. It is also the Commission's commitment to change the regulation on the basis of which this mechanism operates to use it for the last time and never again Member States of the Eurozone, to not be able to use this mechanism as a support tool before it is agreed with the Member States outside the Eurozone and before there are guarantees that they will not be involved in financial support for countries of the Eurozone. This gives us reason to support, with clear guarantees that we are not directly affected, the common European position and the difficult arrangements reached at the Council meeting of 12 July this year. You know that the Greek Parliament has met the requirements of the European Council. In this sense, Bulgaria will not be an obstacle to granting the bridge loan to Greece of 7 ml. 160 million. EUR in case of clearly recorded legal guarantees that the Bulgarian State and other Member States of the European Union that are not members of the Eurozone, in the event of an unfortunate development in the Hellenic Republic, will not be directly affected and the additional guarantees will also be made to the European budget by the Member States of the Eurozone. After these firm and legally secured guarantees to the Bulgarian state, the government believes that there is no obstacle and risk to activate this mechanism and Bulgaria to join the positive decision of the United Kingdom and other countries outside the Eurozone to provide bridge financing before the third rescue package for Greece is activated. It will enable a defolt to be avoided to the European Central Bank, which, in terms of legislative procedures, would be inevitable if by July 20th the Hellenic Republic did not pay the dues it has to the European Central Bank. I stand before you with the clear confidence that we are not taking any financial risk by supporting the use of this bridge financing mechanism, which we are talking about for three weeks, for which countries outside the Eurozone are guaranteed by the Member States of the Eurozone. This is what we wanted to tell you in order to close the debate on whether Bulgaria should participate and whether our interests would be affected by such a decision. We have full guarantees that we will not be affected, whatever the development in the Hellenic Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I will literally read the text that protects the member states outside the Eurozone, adopted because of Bulgaria: The Member States of the Eurozone have announced their intention to fully and promptly compensate each country outside the Eurozone with the amount that this State has paid to cover losses arising from financial assistance granted by the European Union to Member States of the Eurozone under Council Regulation 407/2010. The loan of the European financial stabilisation mechanism is guaranteed by the general budget of the European Union. In the event of a default on this debt service loan taken by the Union, the Commission may require the submission of funds in addition to its own assets pursuant to § 2, 3 and 4 of art. 12 of Regulation No 1150/2000 implementing Decision No 2004/436/EC's own resources system of the European Community, taking into account all the cash surpluses The Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and its detailed rules of the Commission Delegated Regulation provides for instruments for the protection of the European Union budget, including the recovery of debts by way of deduction of claims and payments where necessary. Underlined means the exclusion from the funds of the Greek Cohesion Package in case of necessity in order to protect the other member states. And I believe that as neighbours of Greece, to remain the only country in Europe to fail its neighbour would not be European, perhaps Balkan, but I ask for your understanding of these guarantees, made especially for Bulgaria, to show for whom once again our neighbours, if they have the valor to come out, to apologise for the insults they have sent to us in their political, populist and now clearly for all the. Populism there failed with a bang. The conditions Tsipras accepted are heavier than the conditions that were under Samaras. Their arrogant behaviour has led to the most severe, applied to a country, in practice, requirements that have been made so far. Therefore, I think it is right to show how far ahead we are in democracy, how much more European we have become, not to stumble them, because without our voice this package cannot be triggered and there will be an avalanche of problems that will subsequently appear in Greece. And that would permanently make our neighborly relations worse. When the Greek people explain to them that they will not receive their money because Bulgaria has tripped them or stopped them, I think that this will cause lasting damage for many years. Let us once again be the good ones and show that we have always been a tolerant people. Moreover, I thank the European Commission for understanding this. I also learned from the speeches yesterday of all political parties that we are all bitter about their behaviour, but I think we should now show that there is no Bulgarian pensioners to give money either from our budget, and it is guaranteed, in my opinion, we can afford it as a tolerant attitude and I will thank you if you support us in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u142	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I also thank all my colleagues for their understanding that they have provided an opportunity to hear this information. [[Applause on the right.]] Mr. Yanaki Stoilov on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u143	Mr. Chairman, ministers! I am using to react on the subject on which we were just informed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Mr. Borisov fulfilled his intention, which he announced a day or two ago, to inform the Bulgarian Parliament, but let us note that he actually proposed the opposite of the original position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u144	It's the same!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u145	First, he said that Bulgaria is a country that is neither obliged nor able to be involved in this process, which was mentioned, and now, through parliament to the Bulgarian people, he said that despite the efforts of the Bulgarian government, we should be involved, like all other countries of the European Union, and we should participate in the guarantees that must be given for the new loans promised to Greece. This is the result, trying to simplify the very complex themes and those precedents created in the European Union. It was good to find out, though, that since we wouldn't pay, if we had to pay, how much it would be, because Bulgaria has some share in this 7 billion guarantee fund. It is said that the conditions will most likely be met. Some texts have been read here that if the conditions are not met, the countries of the Eurozone will make some commitments to Bulgaria, but we need to know what our share as a country is in this package of funds. Furthermore, as far as I understand it, we will be compensated with the money that, if they are collected into the 50 billion package, which is formed in Greece, where their government assets will be invested and which, after they are collected, will then be able to be allocated to cover the obligations themselves and guarantees. I mean, you see, there are a lot of conventions here that we don't have clarity about. In fact, I don't think there's any complete clarity in the plan. We are talking about something else when we chose here or, more precisely, you chose the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank almost all candidates announced how Bulgaria is actively heading towards entering the Eurozone without any financial, political and other analysis of the pros and cons of this action. The question is whether someone is preparing to welcome us there, but it seems that we are always asked to declare that we want to go where the others are already.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u146	We signed this!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u147	The case of Greece because I look at it, we look at it from the position of Bulgarian citizens. I think it is not a question here to discuss the behaviour of the Greek voters, whether it was reasonable or not, how it came to this point. Yes, indeed Greece has been subject to severe conditions. It has failed to fight entirely for the interests it advocated, but this is not a matter aimed at a separate government, and this is a question of the policy that took place in Greece and of the policy that a large part of the European countries, of transnational companies and creditors conducted. And when today's call is made: "Let us help Greece! " it should be borne in mind that everyone who offers this solution is helping not only and not so much for the Greek people. It helps Greece's creditors because some of these creditors stimulated the policy that has crashed today. I've been talking about politics for the last 10-15 years. Because through this lending they had to support their own economy and here, doing an analysis of the situation, we need to focus our critical remarks not only on the management of Greece, but on what was going on in a large part of the European Union in the past years. And when ideas are launched today to have a core of the European Union in which are the most influential countries, including those of the Eurozone, and some other periphery that should always be solidar, even our right in the face of one that is older as a biography, began to realize that solidarity means those who have more to help the poor and not the poor to help the rich. So we're in a very delicate situation. I understand that the Bulgarian government has stated its initial intentions at the meeting of the finance ministers that it is once again seeking a cohesion of the European Union, but it must be clear that these compromises are too temporary and unsustainable, because if they continue on the current path and in our country, and I would say in the European Union, however much we are promised that the Greek case will not be a precedent, it can become a contagious example no longer from the perspective of the peoples' attempts to change the policy that has been imposed, but of continuing to dictate the same interests and all together to pay the bill of a few. Because this is precisely the case of several who are in the advantageous situation, to want all of them solidarity to pay these bills. That is today's decision that is being offered to us. And I think that this issue, if you think, should be put on an official path in the Bulgarian Parliament, after the estimates are made on the issues that have remained unclear. They may be unclear not only to you. They are not entirely clear to those who offer you the solution to join us. And I believe that in this regard we need to start forming more and more prominently Bulgarian positions in the European Union in order to know in advance where our limits of commitments are within the current policy and in what alliances and by what actions we can make alliances in the European Union itself with a view to a further change of its policy. This is already the most complex and most difficult task that Bulgaria alone cannot solve. The Greek example also shows something else that the resistance of individual peoples to change the difficult financial conditions and the dictatorship of this type of policy can only be successful when they begin to unite in their defence. This is one of the lessons in the Greek case that no matter how experienced Greek policy is, no matter how great its traditions are, however strong the Greek+ people are, because imagine what would happen in Bulgaria if two weeks were closed banks and people went out to vote. Perhaps they would have punished their own government first, and they would not have united to show Europe that they are aware of the problems and want a certain change. Other issues need to be raised in the European Union. On what grounds do countries that are in the Eurozone fail to comply strictly with the requirements for the use of the European currency? Since the Greek banks were not in bankruptcy, since there are certain rules under which the European Central Bank must refinance, provide the necessary payment resources, was this not a very effective means of exercising external political and economic pressure? Because the debt issue is one thing, it is real, it is very serious and it has its consequences, but the subject of what monetary circulation is and the relations between commercial banks in the Eurozone and the European Central Bank is somewhat another subject that has other rules and they must be respected. You don't talk about these things. When he goes, Mr. Prime Minister, at the next meeting, your Minister of Finance, officially or informally, let him try to talk to us to find out whether there will be uniform rules in Europe for both debtors and debtors for those who are at some point comfortable and others not comfortable or again and there will be different standards there? That is why our parliamentary group is too reserved for what you are offering us, because we want to be solidarity with the Greek people, but we are not ready again Bulgaria to be with the motto always ready! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Borisov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u149	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, many things have been broken in Greece and by the European Central Bank and by the ceilings that were there and what should have been paid. For six years here you are right, it was still Karamanlis Prime Minister, then Papandreou, then Samaras, all the parties were set up Either way very clearly on Wednesday, we said "No!"... although, for example, MEP Iliana Yotova was clapping to Tsipras in the European Parliament for bringing his country there, along with everyone else to this period. [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] She was clapping, I saw her. I have listened carefully, and therefore, with all due respect, I have remained to hear your words and to answer. He applauded that we would give money to all 28 countries, most likely for this. In the European Parliament, there was this... [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Excuse me? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You can see it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u150	It's not about that. How did you think she applauded for that?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u151	What is it? That's when Tsipras was coming in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u152	She was clapping, but not for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u153	Well, what is it? What were you clapping for? About a very successful policy?! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I turn to you, read you all the guarantees, read you that we should not be the stumbling block from 28 countries to help Greece. How and how this mechanism will be activated, how and how, this will be decided in the coming days. There must be this agreement to begin this procedure. I ask: would it be good for the Bulgarian Parliament, for us as a government to be the country that will bring Greece to its knees? I believe that, as our neighbours, friends and brotherly people, we should not do so. And that all these weaknesses exist in the European Union, the MEPs we have all sent there have a wonderful opportunity in the European Parliament to ask, to insist and to do so. In this case, I do not use it for any political attack against you or anyone else. In Poland, in Ireland, in Spain, in the same crisis were right-wing governments, left-wing governments, fell, went and stabilized. I repeat, with four Greek prime ministers I have worked so far the same thing. It didn't matter if it was left or right or ultra left or whatever. I think it would not be a good sign for us Bulgarians to be here in an hour if I say no, taking into account what everyone and I said on Wednesday, with this plan and Europe saying: "We cannot activate it on Greece because Bulgaria is against it! "Do you think this is good news for the Greek people and that we, as the most tolerant people, should cause it? That's my question. Otherwise, everything else you're saying is so that you violate principles, double arsins. Here, Schengen is a typical example. We have fulfilled the criteria, the Commission has said, the European Parliament has said and, for example, one country is making up a reason and says:............. we will not accept them................. we could play the same role. If they were away from us, I'd agree, but that's our limit. We don't really have a limit to them. I'm sure, as far as I know you as a person, that if you're in my shoes, you'll make the same decision. You will not bet Bulgaria to be the gravedigger of Greece. [[BSP LB.]] We have done everything since Wednesday so far to show Europeans, to show the Greeks that they ultimately depend on us when we have to make such a decision. And they have made all the procedures to ensure that I can go out in front of you and say: "A Bulgarian lev will not be spent because of Greece. " - I read this to you, we have it in writing. We need to keep working this way to save them. All of Europe needs us to save them, and Bulgaria needs us to save them the most. An unstable Greece next to us is a monstrous thing, so let's return the good tone. My intentions are, how can I say, for the sake of the region. It would be very profitable for me to act like a hero, to say no!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u154	Why don't you tell them that this is the task of the Eurozone countries?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u155	It is the Eurozone and they sent us written that if there is a problem, they will take this money. We're not paying anything. Just agree to not one mechanism, but the other mechanism to activate. In fact, in a simpler language, not financial: their EU funds are a bet, they just won't give it to them if they don't start paying. Indeed, it is very politicized on this subject, but my temptation to speak on this subject seems wrong to me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u156	Atanas Merdjanov procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. President, I am making you a serious remark in the manner of conduct because you have admitted to the Chamber an uninformed discussion. We have now witnessed the washing of the Prime Minister's guilty conscience. [[strong noise in GERB and RB]] because yesterday he, his Deputy Prime Minister, a number of ministers and representatives of the ruling majority have stated another position from the newly applied position.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u158	There was an affidavit on this matter! What's the procedure?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u159	The procedure is in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u160	We are not against the Greek people, we are not opposed to Bulgaria helping in this case, but we are witnessing double standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u161	What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u162	My procedure is that you allowed such a discussion. An entire parliamentary group is absent in parliament today. Parliament is too fragile to discuss such a serious topic on which the Bulgarian Parliament should set its parameters and position. There's no discussion!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u163	This is not a discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u164	He's got a guilty conscience for the Prime Minister! [[The President turns off the microphones. People's representative Atanas Merdjanov speaks on off microphones. People's representative Magdalena Tasheva wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u165	Mrs. Tasheva, a procedure or on behalf of a group? On behalf of a group. First there was a request from Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u166	He is a populist no less than other European leaders!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! A smart man learns from other people's mistakes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u168	Sit down! You have no right to talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u169	Mr. Merdjanov, don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u170	The smart man, the smart parties, the smart parliament learn from the mistakes of others. I don't understand one thing either. Until yesterday, the left admired Tsipras, the Siriza. They used to make an example of them. They showed how this was smart policy in European politics, this was the new European left. They admired them, set them as an example.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u171	And now it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u172	They supported the referendum. They were right next to them. Even part of the left in the Bulgarian Parliament was preparing to do Bulgarian SIRIZA. That's what they were telling us. So what happened now? What are the results? The results are bankruptcy and tragedy! This is the result, and this is the lesson we need to learn. [[Strength noise in BSP LB and attack.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the key question at the moment is: why did Greece fail? This is because of 10 years of budget deficits a policy that BSP and the left-hand side offer us. You see, 10 years of budget deficits and the result is a severe bankruptcy. [[Strength noise from BSP LB and attack.]] So who proposes such a policy, the result is bankruptcy. And because you admired the proposed referendum, what was the end result? They signed an agreement again, but what? Much heavier than what was offered to them in the beginning. What happened? What is the result of this left populism? Another arrangement. What's the bottom line, as the left-hand side tells me? The conclusion is again an agreement, again with the same creditors, but much harder for Greece. This is the result of left populism. Because I listened again this morning to representatives of the BSP, it was still not the government in Greece that was responsible, but the creditors who imposed such conditions on them. Well, wait a minute, guys! Why are there no creditors, why didn't someone impose such conditions on Estonia, Slovakia, that of Bulgaria? No one can impose them because external debt is serviced and is low in relation to gross domestic product. No such increase in costs has been allowed. Such a monstrous debt has not been allowed. And how can a monstrous debt be allowed? Only one way! There's only one way, there aren't many ways. There's only one way left! [[Private applause from GERB and RB.]] The left way is to spend a lot more than what you collect. And not only spend more than you spend a year, but spend a lot more than you spend ten years. [[Strong noise and lines in BSP LB and Attack.]] When you spend ten years like that, you end up bankrupt. [[The National Representative Atanas Merdjanov is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u173	For a moment, Mr. Dimitrov. I'm sorry. Mr. Merdjanov, sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u174	I'm not going to sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u175	On the basis of art. 153 I reprimand the MP Atanas Merdjanov! [[Strong noise and shouts in BSP LB and attack.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u176	The first punishment is for what you want!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u177	Mr. Dimitrov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u178	By spending more than 10 years of what you're collecting, the result is bankruptcy. And since the new fashion now of SYRIZA and Tsipras is the next tax increase, they will now solve Greece's problems with a number of tax increases. I want to transfer this experience to you and tell you the following, BSP has a similar bill. BSP wants to abolish the flat tax and introduce progressive taxation, that is, it follows closely the practices Tsipras proposes in Greece. And you will soon see the result in Greece of this tax increase. The result will not be good, it will be quite bad, which I hope will be a lesson for all of you who want to increase taxes, to cancel the flat tax, to introduce progressive taxation. That is, the most important thing in the case of Greece is to draw the right lessons so that we do not make the same mistakes. Because for Greece, honourable Members, it is not the European Commission's fault. It's not the International Monetary Fund's fault. It's not the World Bank's fault. Poor governance in Greece is to blame. In the European Union, there are countries at different speeds. They are divided into smart management countries, smart right-wing countries, I would say, and poorly short-sighted left-wing countries. This is the division in the European Union. [[Strong noise and lines in BSP LB and Attack.]] Some get rich. The average Estonian is already a rich European. He's rich because there's no SYRIZA, there's no left-wing parties that we have and any government that brings us back. [[Strong noise and lines in BSP LB and Attack.]] The average Slovak is already a rich European, while the average Bulgarian continues to be poor for one main reason [[Strong noise and shouts in BSP LB and attack.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u179	Don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u180	During a certain period, a left-wing government appears, which bankrupts the state and then has to come right-wing cabinet, which starts building again. This is the tragedy of Bulgaria. That is why we cannot progress, because in a number of years a left office appears, leads to a suspension of funds, as was the government of Oresharski, a bankruptcy of a bank, and then everything must be built and built again. That is why we cannot reach Estonia and Slovakia. And another. There's a left in Slovakia, but they're Social Democrats. That's the difference! [[Laughter in BSP and Attack.]] They are Social Democrats and do not praise communism. They're not communists, they don't call Putin every morning, they don't call Putin after the referendum, like some others do. [[Laughter and shouts in BSP LB and "Attack." Partial applause by GERB and RB.]] They are European Socialists. So, honourable Members, do not be soviet, but be European Socialists. This is what the Reformation Bloc wants to remind you of after you saw the result of SYRIZA. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB. Loud noise and shouts in BSP and Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u181	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Quiet, please! [[Strength noise in BSP LB and attack.]] I'm calling a 15-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u182	For a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, the national representative Emil Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Historically, the argument is left-right. I prefer not to lead it, I prefer to be on top and look forward. We have many advances to be against and very few arguments to be about the Prime Minister's proposal. If we go in the direction of why we should be against it, well, because for 20 years we've been squandering and paying our debts, and Greece was living well and getting 300 billion. We continue to pay our loans, to comply with strict criteria. On top of that, we want to give them another 86. Sounds kind of unfair to our people. The whole European Union agrees, and it will be difficult for us to explain it to our voters. My mother, who I'm going to see tomorrow, gets five or ten times less pension than any Greek pensioner. No one cares about hers, and she won't get benefits and a raise because we're worried about the Greek taking her in full. So if we go down one plane, we can go very far and find enough arguments to protect it. I have said it myself: "We are worse, and we help others who mocked us. When we entered the European Union, there was a Greek Dimitris Kurkulas in Bulgaria. He also explained with an edifying tone what we should do, how we should step by step to get into the European Union, in the big family, because it is not for everyone there only for people who meet the criteria. And while we were meeting these criteria, it turns out they were doing something else. However, what decision do we need to make right now? We gathered in our room and left the emotion aside. I know it's gonna be hard for us to explain to the voters, and I know it's gonna be hard for me to explain to my mother myself. In this situation, we must make a decision that is not influenced by emotion, but by pure pragmatism: what do we gain and what do we lose? If we say no, mother's pension will not rise, unfortunately, if we say we will make a commitment for which we will be compensated. But what is the harm? At the moment we have been debating it is very difficult for us, we have not started yet and the border on Turkey, we will start at any moment. Why? Because we have pressure, refugees are coming. The people who are supposed to be guarding us are in charge of protecting foreign people, welfare, health care. Can you imagine the entire Turkish border opening up and the refugees from Turkey directly come to Bulgaria because these people, when they are bad, will stone them on the streets and refugees will come to us. Can we afford it? What will this pressure be and who will help us at the difficult time when the whole European Union has made one decision, we have opposed, and then from the same European Union we want help for a problem that we have created ourselves, in part, by opening our border with Greece?! Can we at this difficult time, when we can barely tie the budget, lose a billion, a billion and a half, because that's what smuggling will be like? Nobody's gonna feel sorry for us. Across the border will be passed not at the raised barrier at the fourth speed. Okay, right now we're going to secure some money that will help Greece, and if we don't, we're facing a huge risk. And here, the argument left-right for me doesn't exist. What do I benefit from more, and what could cause me more harm? It may turn out that at some point my mother not only this year will not receive an increase, but for years not only because the problems will constantly push us, the costs will increase, and we will not get help from the only ones from whom we can "the European Union," just because at some point we have not acted wisely. Debateing each other and expressing everything for the European political family, in this European Union, to join this decision in order to be able to help Greece; to give it another chance and, in the end, to protect ourselves from many disasters, the many harms and the many dangers that I am definitely certain you are all convinced that we are not prepared. We can debate for a long time what can happen along the border or not, how to prevent it or not, but we are not ready at this point to start guarding another three times greater border and a political system that will be clearly directed against us because of the problem that we have created we have not given them the opportunity to overcome it. We believe that more national responsible, more prudent behavior, more stately behavior is even at this difficult time for those people who do not deserve it from us, but are still our neighbours and one cannot choose parents and neighbors, where to be born or in which country to be, to act in the civilised and European way to join this initiative; to give the Greeks the opportunity, if they really have gathered courage in themselves, if they have learned, are still a cradle of democracy, to take the right path; to start paying their debts as we do. At the same time, to protect ourselves from all the dangers that at this very moment we do not need to put them on the heads of our constituents, of the people who sent us here and the people who secretly hope for themselves that we will help them live better, but in no way to make their lives worse. Thank you all for putting up with me and listening. I call for common sense without politics, and only with pragmatism what is useful for Bulgaria, what is harmful. The desire to do something, will we do harm in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Ms. Magdalena Tasheva on behalf of the political party parliamentary group Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u185	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, today's discussion is desperate! I imagine what Western Legations think when, from today's discussion, they realized that the Bulgarian government, headed by its prime minister and supporting majority, did not understand anything from the Greek crisis. I'm gonna start a phase. First, the Greek debt is not just accumulated by the left, it is accumulated in most of your sorority parties, Mr. Dimitrov, the dynasty of Karamanlis and Mitzotakis. Check with Wikipedia and you'll be enlightened. They're all members of the EPP. Moreover, no populism has suffered a collapse in Greece. The initial strategy of SYRIZA was the end of the Baylaus. If you didn't understand, you didn't understand. This position was also held by Finance Minister Varoufakis. He didn't want any more so-called rescue packages. There is a way and he put out the strategy with economic arguments, but he said with the same success he could sing the Hymna to Sweden. They don't understand economic arguments because they want one. And here we come to the essence.. they want real assets, they want privatization of priceless, they want ports across the entire coast of Greece............................. the railway, the national electricity company, all private banks or, in particular, state banks........... they want islands........................... That's what they want! And they're right to want it because every year that printer in Frankfurt and better known as the European Central Bank prints a trillion euros a year. What the traitor Tsipras did after urging his people to vote against the Baylaus, and then he turned away and demanded even under heavier conditions, he offered the troika heavier conditions than she offered him. With this he saved the euro. Do not insult the bailout of the euro. He works for you! I would like to remind you that, in the first hours after the referendum, after the gesture, the euro fell by two points in a few hours. If the hard line of bailout had continued, it would have collapsed, and hence the dollar, and the ruble, and the yen, and all the other currencies would have risen. In 2012, when it first came up that Greece could get out of the Eurozone and it would be healthy to do so, the British Telegraph issued a secret circular letter to the Forin office, warning British embassies to prepare urgent plans to evacuate the population, as an economic collapse was expected to be said to him, "Eurogedon." The collapse of all banks, as most banks and most countries have long positions in the euro, have reserves in the euro and the collapse of the euro meant bankruptcy of the banks, from here bankruptcy of companies, bankruptcy of countries. Insurrections, arsons and so on were expected throughout the Eurozone. That's what prevented that very recently discussed salesman Alexis Tsipras. It is yours, hold it and do not try to attribute it to the thinking left people in Europe and around the world! I would also like to tell you that the only purpose of Greece's pressure to be forced, literally forceful, to draw more and more billions of dollars to privatize real assets. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Don't yell like that because I can't hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u186	Don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u187	That was the only goal. Therefore, we believe that Bulgaria not only should not, but also cannot be obliged to provide any guarantees. Because in this way we are saving not the Greek people, not the Greek economy, we are helping this fake currency, which bankrupted all the countries in the Eurozone, except for one single Germany that owns the printery, we are helping the large financial capital. He is not a friend of Bulgaria, he is not a friend of the Greek people. Since 2010, the Greek debt has been cut twice and the remainder has been covered with such a baseload, which you mistakenly call rescue packages. Greece was granted 284 billion. a euro, according to the Greek Finance Ministry. Of these, only 8% have reached the Greek state. Eight percent! Two hundred and sixty billion went to the creditors. Do we now have to guarantee creditors' claims? Never! No country can be forced to do this. Do you understand what this is about? And of those 8% who have gone to the Greek state, hardly 1% has reached the real Greek fisherman, farmer, businessman and so on. Creditors simply take them out of one pocket, transfer them to the other, but on this very short route they pass through some bank accounts of the Greek state and fall into debt to the Greek people. We have nothing against the Greek people. On the contrary, we admire his will to withstand this Nazi experiment, which he was placed on, but we are opposed to strengthening the strength of financial capital and increasing the German hegemony in Europe. I also hope that colleagues on the left will hand over this position to their former leader Sergey Stanishev, who together with Martin Schulz, Senor Shulza, as the Italian prime minister, who is already dreaming of a single European government, meaning the final eradication of the residual sovereignty of European countries. That's not gonna happen! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u188	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tasheva. Are there any groups left with no affidavits? We are continuing with Parliamentary control. Next are the questions to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Home Affairs, who will first answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov regarding the deliberate destruction of agricultural crops on an area of 3500 decares in the lands of the village of Selanovtsi, Oryahovo municipality and Galiche village, Byala Slatina municipality. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, for a statement of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the end of June 2015 there was a serious deliberate misdeed in the lands of the village of Selanovtsi and the village of Galice. On an area of more than 3500 acres, processed by a cooperative based in the village of Selanovtsi, planted with corn and sunflower, was committed a vandalism act. With heavy sprinkler tractors the crops were intentionally treated with preparations which led to their practical destruction. Through one national television it became known to the whole Bulgarian society. The same act was committed on an area of 90 acres, processed by a private owner, in the land of the village of Galice, the municipality of Byala Slatina, and on 2 July a new invasion of 300 acres of wheat was carried out in the land of the same village. Tens of thousands of levs are needed to conduct such an expensive event. It was done professionally, with a lot of technique, frankly arrogant and with a sense of impunity. Dear Minister, my question is: will the perpetrators be found, which, in my opinion, is not difficult, and will their sense of impunity be justified? I just want to add to the text I sent you that the perpetrator, for me, is not the tractor and the mechanic. This act was committed by the one who funded it, who used his own technique, who organized it and ordered it to his own staff. The attitude towards this phenomenon will be a watershed for the legal character of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer. Before that, allow me to inform you that ministers Lilyana Pavlova and Desislava Taneva have exchanged places. Please inform colleagues who have questions to the ministers. We apologize for the inconvenience.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u191	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, first of all, I want to say that I share your concern and your definitions of these cases as an extremely serious crime. I would like to assure you that, within all my powers and opportunities at my disposal, I will assist in clarifying the truth of these cases and finding those responsible. I would like to inform you in detail about what has been done so far. Pre-trial proceedings for criminal offences under art. 216, para. 1 of the Penal Code, and so far some of them have been converted into investigative cases, and the investigation of them is being conducted by the District Police Department in the District Prosecution Office Vratsa. On 30 June a working meeting was held with the district prosecutor, which was attended by the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Vratsa, his deputy and investigator from the District Prosecutor's Office. At the meeting is agreed a plan with concrete actions and by order of the District Directorate Vratsa, a team has been formed working on the prepared investigative plan. In the case in Selanovtsi we do have 2500 decares in the area of Mosta, areas planted with corn and in the area of the area of the American block........................................................................................................................................................... The scene was immediately visited by employees of the District Department "Oryahovo." A review has been carried out, all materials seized, soil from the affected sites, and are given in a laboratory for treatment. Until now, interviews have been conducted with the mourner and other persons identified in the course of the investigation who may be involved in the case. Following the instructions of the monitoring prosecutor, pre-trial proceedings have been assigned to investigate the District Prosecutor's Office, Vratsa, where an investigative case has been filed. Regarding the two cases in Galice. In the area of Plovdiv, 90 decares of sunflower plantations were sprayed. There was also a look-through at the crime scene and traces were taken. There are also traces of agricultural equipment in the area. I assume that's what you mean when you made the supplement? Pre-trial proceedings have been brought against an unknown perpetrator. The reporter as a witness has been interviewed, documents from the Municipal Service are requested from the Municipal Service "Slatina" related to the agricultural land and the crops. Weekly pre-trial proceedings are reported to the District Attorney's Office as it is under the supervision of the District Attorney. In the second case, about 300 acres of wheat was sprayed in the district of Batova mound. Police officers did a background check and took physical evidence. In addition, pre-trial proceedings have also been initiated according to the description of the District Department of Byala Slatina. It was subsequently converted into an investigative case and is currently being worked by an investigator in Vratsa County Investigation Service. I confirm my decision and my commitment to complete all activities that will facilitate the investigation and clarification of the perpetrator as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Mr. Bojinov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u193	Dear Minister, thank you for your information. I am under the impression that it is working systematically, that this act will not go unpunished. It is very clear to me that the material damage to those people who have suffered will affect their lives, their economic status. And without underestimating it to any extent, I mean that the retribution that needs to be obtained will have much more importance to know that in Bulgaria such things cannot happen and remain unpunished. Otherwise, both those people who are engaged and public opinion already knows who did it. This should be made public and the verdicts should be a lesson to anyone who can go over the head that it can deal with other people like that, whatever their differences about land, anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Will you use the hole, Madam Secretary? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on late payment of benefits to former employees of the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u195	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question about late payment of compensation to former Ministry of Interior officials. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, at the end of 2014 there was a wave of leaving civil servants in the Ministry of Interior as a result of the unstable and constantly changing policy of the Ministry of Interior in the field of pension reform and the upcoming changes concerning the early retirement of the employees. In meetings with retired employees of the Ministry of Interior, I understand that most of them are more than 7-8, and they have not received their due compensation under Article 9 months already. 234 of the Ministry of Interior Act. These are the so-called "Twenty salaries" for retirement. Unofficially, you have been given an answer that you have given instructions to pay benefits only to those former employees who form cases because of the late payment. In view of the above, please answer the following questions: First, what is the total number of civil servants who left the Ministry of Interior in the second half of 2014? Secondly, what is the number of employees who have not been paid what is due to them under the Ministry of Interior compensation Act and what is the criterion determining which employees to be paid and which ones not? The third question is: how and where the Ministry of Interior will provide the funds to pay interest on late payments of the twenty salaries, as well as the judicial costs of the cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, on the first question, the total number of civil servants who left the Ministry of Interior in the second half of 2014 was 1352. There are several others who have left following disciplinary proceedings, but they are not due to payment of compensation. And one reference. The release of civil servants in the first half of 2014 was 1754, i.e. more than in the second half. Then the pension reform was not on the agenda in the Ministry of Interior, but more people left, but in the first half of 2015. At the moment there are 475, during the time when the pension reform was already being worked and there is clarity in what direction it is going. In this sense, I don't think we can tie this statistic to government policy. In terms of payments. I have not given orders for any extraordinary order of payment and have perhaps misled you with this information that you have quoted. Currently, the number of employees who have not been paid their compensation under the Ministry of Interior Act is 942 people who have left since the end of 2014. That is, in the framework of these 1052, together with those who left in the first six months of 2015 a total of 942. As of today, the amounts due amounted to 16 million. $110,000. lv. and they have not been paid due to an insufficient budget under the indicator. There's not a feather in the budget that gets loose. In March this year, however, they were paid from the budget of the Ministry of Interior, without also being planned, the oldest ordered payment orders for compensation under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Five hundred thousand. lv. The principle of repayment is in chronological order of occurrence and they are registered through the SBRA. About your third question. The funds for the payment of interest for late payment and the costs of the pending cases will be within the framework of the budget of the Ministry of Interior for the year in question. We pay them, too, without planning. As for the policy of the Ministry of Interior for budget spending. You know that it is aimed at limiting the optimization of expenditure on basic activities, as well as improving the organisation of work and restructuring of core units without leading to staff cuts. I am actively discussing these topics with Minister Goranov and thank him for understanding. Then when there's a chance, we solve the issues on the move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u199	Mrs. Bachvarova, thank you for your answer. One thousand three hundred fifty-two retired the second half of 2014, if I remember correctly, and four hundred and several in the first half of 2015. That's about 1,800 people. Of which 942, that is, 50%, did not receive the 20 salaries. Under the Ministry of Interior Act, you must pay these salaries within one month if they are not paid. You can't pay them interest for the delay unless they file lawsuits because the Law also gives you the right to pay interest on the 20 salaries. Very likely they'll file cases. The people I talked to last night I talked to them again about not being paid their salaries, the delay has been around 10 months. They will file cases against you and will win them, naturally, because you broke the Law, you will have to pay them interest. You say this will be from the budget of the Ministry of Interior. The budget of the Ministry of Interior is actually the Bulgarian taxpayer, right? And the measures that you need to take, because this is absolutely unnecessary spending of public funds, there is no need for this when you say you have the consent of the finance minister to assist you, he should help you before court cases and not after them, because millions of interest and expenses will be accumulated in cases that none of us need. After all, these people do not want to delay their payments, they are not for interest rates, but they want them, naturally. Even if you are, and 12 months to delay payments, and they all rely on these funds, the law says so. And all of a sudden, we say there's no money, and we end up paying with interest. We eat salt and paint, and then we pay her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. A line? You won't take advantage. The third question to Mrs. Minister of Interior is about the structuring of the General Directorate of Organized Crime, which is asked by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov and is united with a question fourth, which is from the same MP Krasimir Yankov, concerning information about the work of the Ministry of Interior and the General Directorate of Organized Crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u201	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, Mrs. Bachvarova! The two issues are most likely united because they relate to the General Directorate of Organized Crime. The first question is in terms of structuring the main directorate. More than four months have passed, and in order to be correct, after a few days five months after the adoption of the Ministry of Interior Act, the changes that have been introduced to this Parliament and the passage of the General Directorate of Organized Crime in the Ministry of Interior. The idea of reform from this part of the sector "security" was presented as key by the reorganization of the Ministry of Interior, aimed at increasing the effectiveness of countering organised crime, threats of terrorism and refugee flows to the country. In this regard, Madam Minister, has the process of transformation and transformation of the General Directorate of Organized Crime in the Ministry of Interior been completed? Has the directorate's staff been completed and on what principle have the appointments and reassignments of the State Agency been carried out? The second question is regarding information about the work of the Directorate General "Fighting with Organized Crime." I ask both of you to answer, not as Deputy Prime Minister of Coalition Policy, but as Minister of Interior. It is necessary to inform the MPs about the activity and the results of the effectiveness of this important unit by the Ministry of Internal Affairs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He's been working for almost five months. Apparently this directorate is a secret and there is no site and no information on the website of the Ministry of Interior. What are the first results of her activities for the period after the change of the Ministry of Interior Act? Number of operations carried out in the territory of our country, number of established and neutralised established criminal groups, number of completed and sent to the prosecution pre-trial proceedings, and how many of them have concluded with indictment? I am asking about the territory of the country because we are witnessing that the most frequently reported canals are Canada, Maori Islands, Brazil and so on. Information is used by foreign partners and red dots are written without having their sources and their information on organized criminal groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u203	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Yankov! Yes, I can assure you that the process of transformation and structuring at the General Directorate of Organized Crime is clearly over in the Ministry of Interior system, according to the deadline. The current state of the main directorate has been optimized by 37% compared to the state of the directorate since May 2013. I will remind you that then the amendments to the DANS Act were adopted in the first vote, which relocated DGBOP from the Ministry of Interior to the DANS. Then the transformation process lasted for more than half a year, as a huge part of the employees of professionals with longstanding experience, went through various will tests for one purpose only to end their service. They've gone according to the DANS. I recall that the bill under which this transformation was carried out was carried out by Sergey Stanishev, Lutvi Mestan, Mihail Mikov and Hristo Biserov. Then changes were adopted, which determined the mode of election and release of the head of the SANS by a decision of parliament on a proposal from the prime minister. Thus, at the same time, changes were made, which included the staff of DANS from DGBOP, and this significantly aggravated the work on curbing and combating organised crime. I think it can be proven not only in numbers. We're all witnesses. The consequences of this are still a problem for the image and trust of the Ministry of Interior. With the latest amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which entered into force on 24 February 2015, a process of moving employees from SANS and DGBOP into the structures of the Ministry of Interior started. In less than three months, this process has ended without significant shocks and to date, the Directorate-General has fully completed its personnel. The reassignment of the staff of the SANS to the DGBOP was carried out very quickly on the basis of a list of staff carrying out the activities referred to in that paragraph submitted by the Chairperson of the SANS. I mean, logic was about activities, not personnel. Regarding your questions concerning the activities of DGBOP after the return of the structure to the Ministry of Interior, I can inform you of the following. A total of 25 specialized operations have been carried out from 24 February to date: eight of them under art. 321 of the Criminal Code and 17 in cooperation with other Ministry of Interior services, National Police, Border Police, SDVR, DANS, Customs Agency, as well as with foreign partner services. DGBOP monitors a total of 277 organized criminal groups with 1319 participants, of which 17 groups with 80 participants were neutralized: 78 Bulgarian citizens and two foreign nationals. For the same period, a total of 159 pre-trial proceedings were initiated and assigned to the DGBOP for investigation. The work on 50 pre-trial proceedings was completed, of which 11 were indicted. Charges have been brought against a total of 291 persons under the terms of art. 321 of the Penal Code. In addition, 14 investigative cases have been initiated on GDPO materials and five persons have been charged. All this has been achieved while the process of the relocation and restructuring of the main directorate has been underway.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Bachvarova, from the answer we understand that the state of the General Directorate of Organized Crime, compared with the period in which the Minister is Tsvetan Tsvetanov, is 37% smaller. This suggests that the state of the Ministry of Interior has generally declined. However, we are also asking ourselves whether this is a personnel deficit in the Directorate and it is right in the direction of moving again from the National Security Agency to the General Directorate of Organized Crime. I mean, are there any employees of the DANS who have refused to move back into the structures of the Ministry of Interior under the hat of the General Directorate for Organized Crime?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u206	What business do the DANS have in the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u207	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to information that is officially available, the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act have been on February 20th. Paragraph 90 replaces the undertaking to issue regulations, including regulations on the structure of the Ministry of Interior's activities. And you're running out of time. There hasn't been such a rule for five months! If you see that you are working under the old rules, there is not even a regulation of the office, the Department of Organized Crime as an existing one. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in exactly 15 articles that have been amended in the Ministry of Interior Act, there is a deadline of 1 April. You may not have seen this, but the team with which you work, some of these members are precisely in terms of transferring or changing the status of employees into the Ministry of Interior system. These people were certainly interested, they read the proposal for a bill, they followed the vote, they know what the law is and they're waiting. I've tried several times to find your answer to your actions at the moment, and you keep explaining things that are two or three years behind. In what way the Directorate-General for Organized Crime was moved as an activity to the State Agency of National Security and has been discussed many times in the previous parliament. The effectiveness of the work of SANS as a counterintelligence service and in the context of the real threats at the moment to our country has been repeatedly discussed. Now? What do you do now? I asked you for a reason, making the agreement that I asked you about the territory of the country and the real actions of this Directorate, which is related not only to information from abroad and partner services. You're in charge of 25 specialized operations, 17 of which are based on information from foreign partner services. Isn't that what you said?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u208	No. [[Reply of Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u209	What is the effectiveness of the work of the Directorate with its own resources in relation to all activity? Otherwise, if we're going to brag about the medals from the work of foreign partner services, yes, great, we are helping and in sync with these foreign partner services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u210	The weather, Mr. Yankoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u211	Because they trust them now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u212	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u213	It is nice for Bulgarian citizens to receive information through the public space, through the Ministry's website otherwise we will get into a situation every two months to ask such questions, which will lead to an answer and some statistics about the work of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you. [[Replications between the MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. You're not going to take advantage of the right to the back. Thank you for participating in today's Parliamentary Control, Madam Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. The next question is to Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev regarding a flight to Razgrad and a protocol for the use of Aviation 28 by officials and third parties. Before I inform you that we will be able to meet the announced response schedule, that is, Lilyana Pavlova will be in charge of the schedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Moskovski, with an apology that the question is to you, because it is actually a question to Boyko Borisov, but it was returned to me by the President of Parliament because of the fact that it is his flight with Squad 28, which is formally under your command. Dear Mr. Moskovski, on May 15, 2015 was the official opening of the Tribune of Kosmin Motsi at the stadium in Razgrad. In response to journalistic questions after the match, the owner of the football team Mr. Kiril Domuschiev said that Prime Minister Borisov and Minister Goranov used a helicopter to arrive in the city for the opening of the platform. I quote the exact words of Mr. Domuschiev: "Flying by military helicopter for nearly an hour and a half to come and find the arena and congratulate us on our anniversary. As soon as the tape was cut, they came home. After a question was asked by Nova TV it became clear that a helicopter was used not a military helicopter and unit 28 for the sum of BGN 2 900. which, according to the press centre of the Council of Ministers, saved the cost of cordon of the National Security Service from Sofia to Razgrad. The main issues posed by this information concern the flights of officials and other persons, at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayers using such specialized transport. I recall that in 2013 a special temporary committee in the National Assembly analysed other cases of flights with Air Force 28, including the According to Mr. Pencho Penchev, at that time the Director General of Air Force 28, almost all flights were carried out by order of the Prime Minister and without prior request. The Commission found a number of ambiguities and omissions with regard to the lists of passengers then carried. It became clear that for the period 2009 - 2013 Prime Minister Boyko Borisov used the Aviation Squad 267 times, which is more than the flights of all ministries and offices, the President, the Vice President and the President of the National Assembly combined. At the same time, the flights of third parties, i.e. not public, were 124 and totaled 1 million. Seven hundred and forty-seven All of this raises a number of questions about the way and rules under which Air Force 28 is used. In this regard, please answer the following questions: First, who gave the order to use Unit 28 for the flight to Razgrad on 15 May 2015? Please attach a copy of the order to the answer to the question. Secondly, do you consider it appropriate to use budget funds for the Prime Minister's presence, along with two other ministers, at the opening of the stands? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thirdly, have the rules and protocol been complied with as to how the services of the Aviation Squad are used? Otherwise, as used to detect the tribune of a stadium, can it also be used to go to a wedding, for example?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u216	The weather, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u217	You'll take it back from my line after that, Mr. Chairman. What is the amount spent on the specific flight to Razgrad and vice versa on 15 May 2015 and how much is all the costs of moving the Prime Minister along with Minister Goranov? I'm asking for a feather breakdown. Fifth, in the words of eyewitnesses, two Ranger and one Audi A8 of the National Security Service have travelled from Sofia to meet the prime minister at the airport and escort him to the stadium in Razgrad? Please confirm this information and answer whether this cost is included in the declared cost amount of BGN 2 900.? Sixth, how do you intend to introduce transparency and accountability on Air Force 28 flights in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u218	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. I would like to address all my fellow Members who have questions to read the Rules and to observe the times, because in the end, that is precisely why the Rules are to be respected. Mr. Kadyev, you have 30 seconds left to reply. Here you are, Minister, for your answer you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kadyev! To the first question, who gave the order to use Air Force 28, according to art. 64b of the Civil Aviation Act, Air Force 28 is an air operator for the performance of special purpose flights and flights for the needs of ministries and offices. According to the Rules of Procedure, special-purpose flights for the needs of ministries and departments shall be carried out after written request to the Aviation Department. On the basis of an application submitted by the Council of Ministers, the Director-General of the Aviation Department has issued an order, reg. No RD-16-30 of 14 May 2015 for the preparation, organisation and execution of the flight. This is the standard flight procedure. On the subject, do you consider it appropriate to use budget funds for the presence of the Prime Minister with two other ministers, I do not have such duties to assess the appropriateness of the Prime Minister's flights. I believe that it is important to be present at all events where, as in the present case, the State has financially supported the construction of sports facilities. So I think he has reason to be here. Is the third question followed by the rules in the protocol for which events are the services of Air Force 28 used? Air Force 28 is operating special purpose flights. The Prime Minister's carriage flight is a special purpose flight. In this respect, the rules for the use of the Aviation Squad are complied with. The next question is what is the amount. The total amount of the flights to Razgrad and vice versa is BGN 2052.22, provided and signed by the Director-General of the Aviation Squad. The calculation is as follows: value for spent fuel Regarding the words of eyewitnesses for the presence of Ranger and Audi, the Minister of Transport and Information Technology and Communications, in this case I cannot commit to answers and comments that correspond to the activities of the National Security Service. How do we intend to introduce transparency and accountability? In accordance with art. 12, para. 2 of the Air Force's Rules of Procedure, special purpose flights shall be carried out after written request to the Aviation Squad. It shall include information, a list of passengers, aerodromes or landing sites, a flight schedule, a date, an hour and a section on which the air escort will take place, if organised by the receiving party. The fleet shall be subject to checks by the Court of Auditors, the State Financial Inspection Agency and other control bodies. We are not aware of the refusal of access to public information in relation to the activities of the Air Force. For the last two years, a number of checks have been carried out on the overall activity by various institutions and we are not aware of missing flight documents, including passengers on board the aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kadyev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u221	Dear colleagues, Mr. Moskovski! To use specialized transport to open a stands in a stadium is a waste of public funds. I will give you, for example, the finale of the European League Cup in Berlin, where the French Prime Minister took his son. After raising a scandal and howling in the French press within a week he returned the money. Had Mr. Borisov been here, I would have asked him a simple question: Have you managed to return the money already? The way is very simple. He's messing with his wallet. He's pulling out BGN 2052. In your opinion, BGN 2,900 According to the Council of Ministers, put them on the table. This money and this ride is not about going to weddings or birthdays or opening stadiums, football matches, volleyball matches or anything else. I understand that this is Mr. Borisov's habit. I remember that a few years ago again as prime minister he went to a match of the Barcelona with the Then he said: "We paid it from GERB's subsidy. However, GERB's subsidy is not the money of the voters of GERB, but 11 leva each. from the budget for every vote GERB has won. They are specific, only for political activity! The opening of a stands is neither political nor economic activity. For this reason, the Bulgarian Prime Minister should by no means afford such things, and if he affords them, he should simply take out the money and pay them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u222	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? You don't want a line. The next question to Minister Moskovski is from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the theft of fuels and infrastructure facilities in Bulgarian State Railways. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I ask an up-to-date question, on the one hand, not only about the Bulgarian State Railways and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, but also about all citizens who use rail transport on a daily basis in Bulgaria. On the other hand, I would also like to say that in the past few months, the media and public interest in the existence of corruption schemes and the theft of fuels in particularly large sizes in Bulgarian State Railways has been particularly sharpened. Various journalistic studies were conducted by national televisions, which showed facts and evidence in this particular direction. In view of the above, I would like to ask you the following: as a result of the detected and registered thefts, can it be pointed out what are the real losses for Bulgarian State Railways and the state budget from the beginning of the year? Which structural units in the Ministry of Transport are responsible for the security, prevention and non-discrimination of such criminogenic events? Is there coordination between different departments with regard to a common strategy for dealing with the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u224	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Belemezov! The main priority in the management and implementation of the Plan for Development and Rescue of the group of companies of Holding BDZ is the elimination of such bad practices and the implementation of relatively new mechanisms and models to counter the theft of fuels and other criminal offences on the ownership of the railways. All of the objectives we have set are set, even from our previous mandate we are betting on prevention, modern standards on risk management and technical control systems aimed at overcoming the subjective factor. In 2012, we took the first steps to prevent the theft of fuels through the processes for imposing preventive control and countering incriminating acts by BDZ employees, definitely achieving positive results. In 2012, the first common mobile groups of employees of the two companies were established in the security holding structure of the During this period, and the next combined with the Transport Police were implemented a number of shares related to the theft of fuel and property abuse. The captured employees were then 35 people, in 2014. - 65, respectively. Changes in the structure of the Ministry of Interior and new risks in the middle of national security have forced us to build new structural and functional interactions between the security, operation and safety units in rail transport. An operational interaction has been established with the newly established structures in the Ministry of Interior and DANS. In relation to the specific theft of fuels due to unauthorised actions, the following measures have been taken to protect the fuel as follows: measures for the supply and storage of diesel fuel in the warehouses of locomotives, building video surveillance respectively; measures to control the consumption of diesel locomotives with the necessary technical equipment; security and video surveillance are built for both the GSM stations and the entire depots; introduction of analytical software. Measures to reduce fuel consumption in 2015 shall be taken on a monthly basis. At the moment, I cannot quote you specifically on what cost norm we are working with, but it is certainly updated every month and is at a rate of reduction in expenditure. Our calculations are that in 2015 savings will be made within 1 million. lv. We try, of course, with other mechanisms to counteract external factors that affect. I hope that in 2015 we will make serious progress, in terms of statistics compared to previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u226	Thank you. Mr. Belemezov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u227	Thank you, dear Minister. I sincerely hope that there will be substantial results in this direction by the end of 2015, because indeed the problem is of particular importance. It is of particular importance that the state suffers losses due to the criminogenic factors that exist in Bulgarian State Railways, on the one hand. On the other hand, the theft of infrastructure facilities, a process which has been tracked by the former Transport Police, puts citizens using this transport on a daily basis at constant risk, i.e. we cannot guarantee the security of their smooth journey. I wish you good luck in that direction! I'd like to appeal for the following. I hope that the measures taken by the Ministry in your person will result in the necessary results. Only by establishing control mechanisms, improving internal controls and firing of people employees of the Bulgarian State Railways caught in such violations should not lead to effective results that are aimed at. I appeal once again with you, as Minister of the Transport Ministry, together with the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Finance, to turn in the direction of restoring the activities of the Transport Police, which played a key role in ensuring the security of citizens, preventing this type of abuse and, at the same time, ensuring the necessary preventive measures concerning terrorist acts in the territory of the railway infrastructure. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u228	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u229	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Belemezov, I strongly support everything you've said. Our internal analysis shows that the functions of the specialized Transport Police, which is now gone, are extremely important. We are supporting this in some form, perhaps not in the same volume and variant in which it existed, but in some form to restore this specialized unit in the Ministry of Interior system. On our part, we will do our best and cooperate with this process.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski is from the MP Vasil Antonov on specific actions that will be adopted in order to end the wicked practice with the illegal receipt of driver's licenses. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Ministers! Dear Mr. Moskovski, as it became clear, my question is mainly addressed to you about the unauthorised receipt of driver's licenses or, as is known in society, the purchase of driver's licenses. On the date on which I asked my question, mid-June, the topic was very up-to-date in the media. They cited specific cases, and it was very diverse, for obtaining driver's licenses in this way outside the regulation, mentioning not only specific cases, but also specific settlements, and from there it became clear that a large part of the expectations in society and what is being commented is that in certain cities, certain areas run such a market, rudely speaking, of selling unregulated driver's licenses. The cases are very diverse. They are described in the question. Some of them go through appearances with presentation of false diplomas, foreign ID cards, dictating the correct answers through headphones, something which, of course, was also confirmed by the newly appointed Director of the These things largely sow, set a very bad example in society, and what happens not only concerns the bought driver's licenses. Anyone who drives more or less...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u232	You're gonna have to focus on the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u233	Finally, those who are driving, more or less, see that not every year, and daily the cases of dangerous driving become too much. In the last year alone, 615 people died in traffic accidents in the country, and this figure in children is 30 in one year. During the period 2011-2014 the cases of children killed on the road as a result of such cases were 114 and the permanently injured and injured were 4346. And here comes my question to you, Minister: what concrete action do you intend to take as Minister to deal with this so-called and painful problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u234	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Minister Moskovski for response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, in relation to the questions you have asked, I will inform you of the following. For the period 1 June 2014 " 1 June 2015" has been cancelled exams of 217 persons. Most of them are the result of the provision of an untrue document for completed education. The other cases are for the following infringements: the applicant does not meet the requirement for admission to the exam At present, materials have been provided to competent authorities for five more persons. In the light of the foregoing, attempts at unauthorised acquisition are mainly due to violations committed by the applicants and not due to unauthorised actions by employees of the In order to reduce the prerequisites for corruption practices, as well as limiting existing practices, video surveillance has been introduced in carrying out theoretical and practical examinations. A theoretical exam on an electronic tablet has also been introduced. At present, a minimum percentage of theoretical exams are not yet covered by the examination in this way, but our commitment is by the end of the year 100% in the entire territory of Bulgaria, wherever exams are conducted, to be covered with this electronic way of conducting the exam. An electronic system has been established for the needs of the organisation and conduct of the examinations of applicants for the acquisition of motor vehicle driving licence. The Executive Agency is seeking full assistance from the Ministry of Interior for verification of the persons who have taken an examination for the acquisition of competence. The purpose is to make an electronic comparison of the photograph of the person who decided the text with the photograph of the person to whom the driving licence is to be issued before issuing the driving licence. In the minutes of the exams, the Executive Agency is applying photos of all candidates who have decided on a tablet test. In addition, subsequent control of video recordings from the cameras in the examination offices has identified cases where applicants exchange tests. The analyses showed that the same candidates are repeatedly taking exams and each time they fail the exam and decide tests of other candidates. Those cases have also been transmitted to the competent authorities. The normal deadline for the full introduction of electronic exams is, as I said, at the end of this year. For cessation of practices we have taken action and a technical opportunity has been provided by September all theoretical exams to be conducted on a tablet. Teams of employees of the administration's central management shall carry out checks at regional units and, in the event of suspected corruption practices, the relevant staff shall be removed from the activity of conducting competence examinations. A Prevention and Countering Corruption Plan has been established and implemented, which provides for specific measures to limit corruption practices, including some of those listed so far. Each alert for unauthorised actions or doubts about such shall be dealt with by a team of experts from the Central Management of the Automobile Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, all these cases that you are quoting, of course, are largely involving the employees in the Automobile Administration. Here, in this finding, I must remind you that only less than two years ago 19 of the employees of the Now, less than two years after this case, a large number of them have been restored to work. Somehow, the fact that people who are released for corruption practices two years ago today have to implement these measures that you mention, so that we are insistent in this direction here to pass the work also in terms of the personnel problems that basically lie in the Automobile Administration. And the other thing, which is the last thing we need to do in this direction, because the measures that you have adopted to date remain largely in us the feeling that they are too campaigning. We have heard this two years ago, and three years ago from you, but in essence we have no lasting results, my question was precisely in this direction: what lasting results do you expect to achieve in the Automobile Administration on the purchase in a regulated way of driver's licenses?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u238	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u239	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Antonov, I'll make a short line. Whether a minister has judged that certain employees are corrupt or have unauthorised actions in their functions is one thing. However, it is quite another thing to prove this. These data that you are quoting for recovered persons, employees, this is precisely why they have been recovered because nothing could have been proved against them. When there is, of course, evidence, the institutions that prove whether there are such uncontrolled, corrupt practices are quite different, so it may be nice for them to turn to explain to you why these people have been returned and we have restored them to work. It's not our function, and we can't say at least if we have doubts about someone, and there's no way to prove it. Others are organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for Minister Moskovski. Have a good job. We are now moving on to a group of questions asked to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. The first question is from the MP Vasil Antonov about a change in the route of the highway. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, with my question to go a little bit to Northern Bulgaria, because yesterday we saw all that in South Bulgaria you found three kilometers from the highway "Struma" the longest built three kilometers, and thus you, we were happy to inform us that we are shortening the road of Bulgarian tourists in Greece by 1 hour from 1 August. My simple account shows that with this one hour respectively, it is possible from Northwestern Bulgaria that those wishing to rest in Greece, from Montana, Vidin and Vratsa to shorten the route, but my specific question is with regard to the highway "Hemus" and to a large extent here, where it is one of the poorest Northwestern regions in the country. My question of 12 November 2014, addressed to you, is about the specific actions that you will take with regard to the completion of the highway. Your response during the parliamentary control of January 16th made it clear that 255 km from the highway from Yablanitsa to Belokopitovo remains to be built. You have also assured us that a tender procedure has been announced for the selection of a contractor for the construction of the first stage of these 255 km, namely 60 km from the Yablanitsa division to the branch of Pleven Lovech. These are two of the lotts for which, according to you, at the date of my question, there is a complete project readiness and for which you expressed hope that by the summer of this year you will also select a performer and will begin the realization of the first 60 km. We were assured that for the remaining direction of 195 km, which should be built, namely from the Pleven section to Veliko Tarnovo, 85 km, and from Veliko Tarnovo to Belokopitovo to 110 km, the work on design, EIA activities, technical projects and so on continues. At the same time, a number of media came up with information, especially during your visit to Tarnovo, from the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo yesterday...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u242	The weather, Mr. Antonov! Ask the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u243	I'm done. The route, which you initially quoted, has been changed and will approach the Veliko Tarnovo direction, which reflects, according to us, the entire track of this length we are talking about, Yablanitsa. And in particular, my question in this regard is: will there be a change in the construction of the first stage, namely the 60 kilometers from the Jablanica division to the branch of Pleven Lovech, as I hope, to use your question and to mention where and when the construction of these two lots in this section will begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u244	Here you are, Mrs. Pavlova, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, as you rightly quoted my reply, given in November, I can also confirm to date that the completion of the highway of the city of Hemus in the district of Jablanica to Belokopitovo is a priority of the government. In addition to the sections of the new construction, which we are going to talk about in a moment, I use the case to confirm that in the coming weeks the section which is under construction by Shumen, namely Shumen, which is a 5 km highway section, and separately a large road node with an extended area of about 10 km. This section is built entirely with funds from the state budget, and from August we will actually have another section of the highway of Hemus. With regard to the newly built sections for which we plan to start their construction, they are divided into three separate stages. I focus on the word "self" because that is precisely the goal: these three stages, they are part of a project, a common direction, for which we have to be precise "252 km with an indicative value of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the These three stages are divided into eight lots respectively. The first two lots of the first stage are exactly the ones you asked me about and the ones I told you about. This is the division from Yablanitsa to the branch Pleven, Lovech, stage one, divided into two lotts. The tender procedure has been announced. There have been appeals under the tendering procedure and this is why it has not yet been completed by date, as these appeals have led to a suspension of the procedure. It's been resumed. The tender procedure is two-phase, namely two-stage. At the first stage of the tender procedure all submitted offers are selected, the so-called short list of companies that meet the requirements. This stage is also over. These companies have been selected. The companies were invited to submit their offers. The deadline for the submission of their tenders is the end of August and after their submission from September on we will finish the final evaluation itself and those tenders, after which those who pass and the technical stage will be opened and the financial offers will be opened. I hope, after including the procedures that you know are subject to appeal, at the latest by the end of this year, we already have an elected contractor for these two lots, for the first 60 km of this division. Regarding the next two stages is the second stage, which concerns the section from the branch of Pleven "Lovech" to Veliko Tarnovo, which is 85 km long. The next, the longest stretch from Veliko Tarnovo to Belokopitovo, to the road node we are currently finishing, is 110 km. They are in the process of designing, as you rightly noted. I confirm that they are in the final design phase and precisely in the section of Veliko Tarnovo, as a result of the public discussion and the proposals received, the designers are currently designing this section so that the highway will pass closer to Veliko Tarnovo, but this will in no way prevent, does not affect the first two lots of the construction phase, as they are self-contained. Our goal has always been that in the whole design of this project and preparation each stage should be self-sufficient so that, with financial resources provided, we can build a stage by stage, that they are mutually independent, that they have separate road connections so that they can be built and put into operation without being dependent on the next section. In parallel with this redesign, which will end, I hope, next weeks, an environmental impact assessment has been issued. Public discussions have passed, so we hope to get the positive EIA decision on environmental impact, which you know is a mandatory requirement and is an integral part of the future building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u246	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from your answer I understand two things, comparing with the answer from half a year ago that "first, in all likelihood there will be a change in the route, and after the segment, however, which is Pleven "Lovech," Yablanitsa "Lovech," which largely does not violate the route and design. This will not give any reflections with delays on the time limits of construction. The second thing I understand is that as a result of the procedure, as were your expectations for starting the construction of the highway in this part of this year, the summer or autumn of this year is slowing down and sending us in the following year. So so far, there are some differences with the expectations for immediate relaxation of the highway. We remain with the great expectation that what you are really commenting on today will happen after half a year, when I ask you again the question regarding the choice of performers, funding and so on, you will not forward us to next year, as you did today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u248	Thank you, too. Mrs. Pavlova? You don't want a doppelganger. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova is from the National Representative Petar Slavov on the completion of the expansion of the southern arc from the ring road of the capital and its connection with highways Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question concerns the connection of the southern arc to the highways of Thrace and Lyulin and its completion in the way in which it is already built in the section of Boyana to Mladost, i.e. as a modern, modern road with many bands, with differences at several levels, as it should appear. Dear Minister, with the support of European funds under Operational Programme It's a very nice place to be. At the same time, the sections of square meters remained unfinished. "Mladost" next to the connection to the highway "Trakiya" as well as after the quarter. "Boyana" next to the connection to the highway "Lyulin". The latter, in practice, greatly restricts the benefits of newly built areas, especially for travelers to or outside the capital. A substantial improvement in the problems of congestion and heavy traffic in the south and central part of the city can be expected only after the complete completion of the construction of this section of the Crossroads and its integration with the highways In this regard, Minister, please answer the following question: within what deadlines is the completion and expansion of the southern arc of the city of Sofia and its connection to the highway Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u250	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Thank you for joining us in time, unlike many other colleagues. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u251	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the completion of the Sofia ring road in the section of the southern arc of the square. The total length of almost 15 km and the estimated value of this project is about 200 million. lv. This is only the value needed for the construction itself. Apart from this amount, funds must be provided which, to date, we cannot determine with accuracy. To be determined, you know, we need to have a detailed plot of property that will affect such an expansion of the Sofia around, so beyond the 200 million we need to predict a serious resource for carrying out alienation procedures. At what stage is the project readiness? You know, projects concerning the urbanised territory of each city, including Sofia Municipality, are drawn up jointly with the municipality as they pass through the urbanized territory and must be drawn up with joint efforts. Here I can assure you of the desire of both the municipality and the Ministry and the Road Agency to complete these sections of Sofia around and in the section of the South Rainbow. At the moment there is an idea design of this section and perhaps, if it is of interest, I can say that the idea project is precisely in order to minimize the means of alienation that is now foreseen, where the wide section of the southern arc ends at the square. "Boyana" with one tunnel to go below the course of the existing route. This would involve much less land to be alienated, and there are already many buildings built there, then to move into a large bridge to move the existing road infrastructure and to make direct connection, down and down to Gorna Banya first, then to continue the direct route and with several complementary facilities over the sections of the road to make the connection with the existing motorway. Quite a complex facility of a complex technical infrastructure in urban conditions. At the moment, unfortunately, we do not have the financial resources available to complete, to process, firstly, the parcel plan and valuation, carrying out and paying off the alienation of these terrains, on the one hand, but more importantly, at this stage we do not have the financial resources available from those over 200 million, which are necessary to enable the construction of this part of the southern arc. What the Travel Agency has foreseen is a package that we call the European Transit Corridors. This is for us the future, I'd say, a new package. The current programme, you know, is the Transit Roads V., which completes the API with funding from the European Investment Bank. It ends in 2016. Our idea is to hold negotiations. Of course, if we get the mandate and support from the government, with the European Investment Bank from 2017 for the package of European transit corridors, including the direction of the South Rainbow, and Sofia "Kalotina," and Sofia "Vidin," and other projects to offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u252	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Slavov, you want a line, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Yes, I will take a line to give you a chance to say a little more about the rest of the section, which actually concerns the section of the "Mladost" to the "Trakiya" motorway, as you explained quite detail about the section of the square. "Boyana" near the highway "Lyulin". I personally have the impression that this section is lighter to perform and as length, I hope, and as alienation procedures. I am absolutely aware that these are two quite difficult and complex projects, but I also very much hope for the experience that you have from the previous construction of what has already been built, from the good interaction that was then made with Sofia Municipality, from the good technological solutions, by the way, which have also been found particularly in the problems of alienation, as for example this facility from Bistritsa's pull-off to "Mladost" where this complex problem is thus solved, including the efforts that Parliament has made to ease the procedures of alienation and speed them up so that they can happen faster when they are in the public interest. All of this to be combined and within a more foreseeable time frame to be able to finish the southern arc in the way it should look. I think you will agree with me that this is obviously in the interest not only of the residents of Sofia, not only of Sofia Municipality, this obviously concerns both transit traffic and overall development. I would say this is a project of national importance that I would like to be a priority, and rather hope to find the best way to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u254	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, yes, as has been shown by my reply, it is extremely important and priority for us to complete the Sofia roundabout, as all transit traffic, which goes to the directions of the key European corridors that go through the capital and in the directions to Turkey, to Macedonia, to Serbia, are extremely important to be taken out of the city and this traffic to be fast, ecological and economical. A few words about the remaining sections of the Sofia Roundabout as one, I'd say, a national priority object. First of all, about the section you asked me about, the section from the end of the expanded southern arc at the square. "Mladost" next to his connection with the motorways "Hemus" and "Trakiya". Here I can also say, although much further back as a stage of readiness and design, there is an idea design for this stage, which is commissioned again with Sofia Municipality, which, you know, have a commitment to design, including because of local and urbanized territories. We expect to get a final version of this project to begin the technical, expert advice and analysis on this project again with a plotted plan. It will not be much simpler, unfortunately, and will also require very serious amounts of alienation, including serious infrastructure, as we have several complex thresholds that need to be made to maintain existing links to the area. "Mladost" to the rest of the neighborhoods, as well as the direction of the road to Samokov, the great road node to be made there. So there we also expect the indicative value of this route to be quite high except for the alienations themselves that are needed, but here we are in an earlier phase. I can confirm, if time allows, that we are working hard to complete the western arc of the Sofia roundabout, namely from the connection where the highway ends, and the road node, the big intersection on several levels of Blvd. "Europe" and the connection in Sofia "Kalotina." Construction's running, and it's on schedule. The last alienations and the last archaeologists are over. At the moment, in relation to the schedule we have from the builder, it is possible for the construction works to be completed by the end of September so that the movement can be launched in this direction. This project is funded under Operational Programme "Transport". The second phase of this western arc is the connection from this road node in the direction of the river Kakac and the links with the highways............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The tender procedure was carried out, unfortunately unsuccessful. Last week, the Travel Agency came up with a decision to terminate, as none of the bids could reach a choice of contractor. This procedure is currently being appealed. After it's over, we'll decide what we're gonna do from here on out. We have a resource available right now, but it's only until the end of this year. We will use it if we have to, and the option to phase, or put it in words simply to transfer it to the new program under Operational Programme. I am now coming from the inspection of the northern speed tangent of Sofia's ring road............................................of the smaller and larger ring of Sofia. The Tangent is built under the Operational Program "Regional Development." We've got a 15-mile stretch, 17 structures are being built on it. Construction works are underway and on schedule. There are a few more terrains that haven't ended as alienation because there's an appeal in court. There are five archaeological sites, some of which we visited. In October, the lawsuits are closed. Much of the route will be completed, but it will not be able to be all of it, as the cases at the Supreme Administrative Court are scheduled until October. I hope that the main part of the route, and the builders today have also stated their willingness to be substantially completed by December so that we can make the most of European funding, and what remains to be completed next year, we will finish it with the funding we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u256	Thank you. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Gorov. He was requested in writing and served. We move on to the last question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova from the National Representative Mihail Mikov concerning permission to build in green area in the inter-block area of the blocks 112, 113 and 114 in Zc. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! It's nice, dear Minister, that you're going to inspect the North Tangent. The next time you walk, go through the "Obelya" blocks 112, 113 and 114 to see how construction permits are given between the blocks in the green area to the children's playground. This is an old problem arising from the failure to comply with the Green Area Registers Act. The Sofia Municipality in this regard is the top. I mean, other municipalities didn't build it, but here the most is being built in the green areas, because Sofia's right-wing management 15 years ago was restitutional. In the event of events, he was restitutional. Now they're starting to build the interblock spaces. There are problems like this not only in Obelia. There are them in Lyulin and others in the new neighborhoods of Sofia. My question is simple: when I walk and talk to people, they ask: what measures will you take (they have written to you) regarding the construction in the green area of the interlock space of blocks 112, 113 and 114 of Jc. They will be happy if you go on site and see what happens from this type of urban policy in Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u258	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u259	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, thank you for asking the question. Thank you for your recommendation. I would like to assure you that as an action taken as a result of the question you have asked, I have sent an on-the-spot inspection, not only on documents from the employees of the RDNC, but also on-the-spot verification of the site itself. What are the results of the inspection? The data from the inspection was that there was a visa issued by the chief architect of the region.Servnitza, but it was issued on the wrong legal basis. This has been established by RDNC employees from the document inspection. As a consequence, the visa has not been notified to all interested parties in accordance with the procedure laid down for the notification of such type of detailed development plans as there are established for this terrain. Since this is not of the competence of the Ministry and of the DNC, as you rightly pointed out, it is a fifth category object and is of the competence of the Sofia Municipality. We've been looking into the City Hall. We also reviewed the documentation contained there and the actions taken. The on-the-spot check found that there was a partial excavation of the size of the plan about 25 to 15 meters in the southwest part of the property, a depth of 1 meter. At the time of the inspection, construction works were not carried out. The construction is secured by a construction fence. There's an information plate installed. Protocol 2A has been drawn up to open a construction site. In view of the complaints against this started construction, as you noted, by order of 3 July 2015 of Sofia Municipality, the construction works of this site were terminated. Not just that. The chief architect of the region "Verbnitsa" has issued an order on 13 July "on the basis of art. Reg. 91, para. 1 of the AKK has withdrawn the building permit issued by him for this site. I can only say a few words and return the chronology to this object. For him there was a decision of the Land Commission of October 2000 of the municipality of Vrbnitsa, which restored fields to former owners of agricultural land at that time within the borders of the village of Obelia, after which by orders of the mayor of the region of Vrbnitsa. Since December 2000 the cadastral plan of Obelia locality with the respective land properties was completed. After the properties were sold in 2009, there was a change and a complement of the cadastral plan. These three properties are united in a new common property. For this property in September 2012, the Sofia Municipal Council approved a detailed Development plan of this residential complex, according to which for this new property, not three, was awarded a separate regulated land estate for public service. It is planned to build a one-storey non-residential building located freely in the property. The property has not been assigned since (September 2012) for landscaping. The decision of the Municipal Council has been notified to the interested parties and has not been appealed, which is why it has entered into force. That is why the chief architect of the Srpnitsa House in January 2014 issued the survey and design visa. We've been approached by you, and we've checked. We saw that the visa was issued on the wrong grounds and was not notified. However, on the basis of this visa, permission has been granted for this public service building to be built nearby, as you said, to the playground, but there is no provision for the removal of the playground and the facilities for children who are built on it. That I can add to the chronology you took out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u260	Thank you. Mr. Mikov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the facts are absolutely accurate. Obviously, you and your experts are familiar with the case. It is clear from the facts that this scam has been spinning since the beginning of 2000 with the restitution, where the Land Commission returns levels, and this level is a green area between three blocks, returns levels to Obelia, and it is located in a residential area of Sofia. Apparently the Sofia Municipality has a flair for these scams. [[Laughter in BSP LB]] because over the years we have witnessed exactly how from the Sofia Municipality was built from Lyulin to Mladost. The land commission was returning. This creates a huge public discontent. I believe that your interference has also contributed to reducing tensions. From now on, obviously, we need to think about some legislative solutions. We can't go on silently... They, the city councilmen, are clear to me! Over the years, they've proven themselves to be people who watch first and foremost how to build green areas, not stop building. One thing we can do even more with you is to exercise strict control over the Green Area Registers, which must be structured in municipalities. They should be public, citizens should be aware and not advisors should say: "We did not know by allowing it to be built in green areas. Architects of the districts and they to pretend to be dead foxes, because very often this happens. To bring out the citizens and children a sad picture were the children who had ordered themselves around this exit. Thank you, and I hope that you will continue with the same attention to monitor this case and other cases of greening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u262	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. That was the last question for you. Have a good job! I'm gonna take the liberty of making a shift in the response program. I will give the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov a chance to answer two questions before the Minister of Agriculture. The first question to Minister Hristo Ivanov is from the MP Petar Slavov on integrity checks of magistrates from the National Bureau for Prevention of Corruption and from the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question concerns the integrity checks of magistrates from the National Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption or that this is happening from the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Dear Minister, recently for public discussion were announced the laws of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption among persons holding senior and public positions and changes in the Law on the Judiciary. Both bills provide for the carrying out of so-called integrity checks and a possible conflict of interests of magistrates. In one case, they are envisaged to be carried out by the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council and in the other by the National Anti-Corruption Prevention Office, which will appear to the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest and of the units of the Court of Auditors dealing with checks on declarations of persons holding senior state posts. Obviously, such detailed checks of all judges, prosecutors and investigators require significant human and financial resources, as well as the corresponding institutional capacity to carry out the checks. While the prepared mega anti-corruption agency is expected to have significant personnel and financial resources, specialized software and so on, no additional funds for the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council are provided for in the budget of the judiciary for this year, in case such additional powers and responsibilities are assigned to those he currently has. Logically, the question arises, if these tasks are fully assigned to the Inspectorate of the SJC, whether this will not negatively affect its other main function of checking the movement of the files, compliance with the legal deadlines by the magistrates, the principle of accidental distribution of cases and so on. Dear Minister, in this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: how do you treat the idea that the checks of integrity and conflict of interests of magistrates should be taken out of the common control body, the National Anti-Corruption Office, and be assigned only to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council? Would the latter have the capacity in this hypothesis with its available resource to cope with the additional volume of work? Is it possible for the checks to remain in general order to all public positions, allowing an accidental and specific signal to be carried out by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for a particular case or magistrate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u264	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u265	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Slavov, the question you are asking is, of course, extremely important. Our country and our government must be able to broadcast a very clear signal of will to prevent corruption, both in respect of all persons holding senior state positions and specific.... with regard to magistrates. The proposals currently have the following architecture. As you said, the proposals that are in the Law for preventing corruption also have a set of synchronized amendments to the Constitution and to the Law on the Judiciary. If amendments to the Constitution, as foreseen, are adopted, they will be assigned to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council carrying out integrity checks. It seems to me that unless we edit this text in any way, as is now foreseen, it will foresee an exclusive of the work of the Inspectorate in this regard. Outside of this argument, let me tell you what concept we came out of. For us, the specific status of the Bulgarian magistrates, which requires a high degree of independence, is assumed to be specific treatment. Secondly, we believe that checks on them would have a series of specifics that justify their positioning from a pragmatic point of view within the institutional framework of the judiciary. What do I mean? First of all, we provide for these checks to be carried out not only on the occasion of the submission of the declarations, i.e. a comparison between the facts and the circumstances declared in these declarations and other data sets and sources, but to periodically do more thorough integrity checks with regard to magistrates. Such in-depth checks on an extended range of facts and circumstances we foresee, for example, to be carried out in relation to the acquisition of inalienability as part of this process. They should also be bound by the attestation, that is, periodically every Bulgarian magistrate should go through an in-depth integrity check. This specificity, in my opinion, justifies the authority that would carry out these checks as part of the attestation or the attestation relating to the acquisition of incompetence and the assessment of whether a magistrate should obtain incompetence.. something that is done by the Supreme Judicial Council is to happen within the judiciary. The more general reason is that, when there is doubt of a conflict of interest, of any abuse or unprofessional behaviour as regards a magistrate, in most cases this will relate to actions relating to the work on specific cases. The authority that has to make these judgments and thorough examination will have to, so to speak, enter between the cover of cases and case files. From this point of view, it also seems to me to make sense that it is rather located in the judiciary so that it does not cause tension. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My last sentence, if you will allow me, because for magistrates, unlike all other high-ranking state officials, is intended as a consequence of establishing some irregularities and disciplinary proceedings, again within the institutional framework of the judiciary, this is another argument to make these inquiries happen there. As a replica, what you're going to tell me will answer the question of administrative capacity, we have something to say there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u266	Mr. Slavov, the line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I will give you an opportunity, of course, in the line to explain this problem. It is somewhat specialized, but I think it is quite important that society does not get the impression that almost the magistrates make their own body to check them out and therefore the general order that will apply to all public positions will not apply to them. This, of course, people would look with suspicion and that is not the point of the task. What I hear from you is, in fact, checking to be much deeper and to be done by much more, so to speak, people who are inside this matter so that they can account for its specificity. I think, of course, the concrete texts proposed for amendments to the Constitution can undergo some version of the Constitution. It seems to me that the general order of verification can be maintained, which also implies that specialized software should do it and so on. Already, if there is any discrepancy or problem on a specific alert or specific case there is a need for a deeper examination, this possibility of the Supreme Judicial Council should be maintained. So it's going to be kind of like extra random checks that won't overload them in terms of their other functions, and, of course, it's going to be a kind of complementary function to all the other tasks that they have by law. I hope this will help them to be able to fit into the budget they have and at all in the capacity they have, because otherwise we will really need to consider perhaps a very serious expansion of the Inspectorate's capacity, including the appointment of additional staff there, additional funds which, as I have mentioned to you at the moment in the matter, in the budget of the judiciary are not foreseen and could become a problem. I hope it doesn't block their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u268	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u269	Mr. Slavov, if we have decided to implement any policy, we will obviously have to finance it. It is obvious that even if these proposals come into force tomorrow, their real implementation will begin as early as January next year and there will be an opportunity to provide for the corresponding resources in the state budget. In this sense, these concerns.. making policy in terms of the fact that now, today, the budget does not provide for any funding for certain actions, I see a little poorly argued. What we're predicting is this. The law on the judiciary, which has not even been put into the Council of Ministers yet, but the project on which we are currently working and discussing is envisaged to create an additional specialized unit within the Inspectorate. In other words, the Law itself provides for an extension of its capacity. That's one. Secondly, in fact, the software and the overall methodology for retructuring people who deal with checks, for their training, the algorithm of checks, all of this must be a horizontal policy that has exactly the same software and methodical training tools to apply both to the Inspectorate and to the Bureau. In fact, we plan to develop them under the Good Governance Programme, according to a project to which the Ministry of Justice applies because it is a beneficiary, and we will actually work out, hopefully, in cooperation with the World Bank at the same time for the checks that will be done in the judiciary and for the others. That is, we have specifics of the status of the magistrate and of the separation of authorities with regard to the judiciary, which, in our view, justify that the institutional framework is different, but horizontally the instruments be the same, allowing general training, general quality monitoring and in fact uniformity of the approach. If we let the Bureau do some initial checks... [[the President signaled that time had run out.]] ...and the Inspectorate to refer only when there are more specific cases, we risk dividing this activity into two, and the practice so far does not show a particular desire for the institution of the judiciary to follow these loops to the end, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u270	Time's up, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u271	In this sense, we will obviously not be able to discuss this issue at the stage, because there are many aspects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u272	We don't discuss here, we answer questions here. The next question is also to the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on the discriminatory attitude of the Council of Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice of the Bulgarians - gagauzi. Here you are, Professor, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u273	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Council of Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice does not regard gagauzas as persons of Bulgarian origin. It does not comply with the opinion of the Advisory Council on the problems of Bulgarian historical communities abroad to the President of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, which is an authority under art. 48 of the Administration Act. According to him, the ancestors of all the so-called "gagauz" have spread to the Bulgarian ethnic and linguistic territory mainly in the 19th century. They differ only in linguistics from the other Bulgarians, but their material culture is identical, and even a significant part of the folklore and their song creation is in Bulgarian. The Advisory Council proposes that in administrative practice and official documents should be used the specific concept of Bulgarians-gaguases with a dash and, in procedural terms, when applying for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship, Bulgarians-gagasuses from the former Soviet republics should be treated equally with the other Bulgarians who possess official documents certifying their national belonging. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what measures will you take to synchronize the practice of the Council of Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice with the recommendations of the specialists in relation to the Bulgarians-gagauses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u274	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u275	Dear Mr. Karakachanov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Professor, you're asking a question that we've discussed with you before. He came into the attention of the Ministry on the occasion of the joint efforts with the new Chairman of the Agency for Bulgarians abroad Mr. Vangelov, to ease and optimize the work on providing Bulgarian citizenship. In fact, the opinion you are quoting from this Advisory Council is given at the request and general initiative of the Minister of Justice and Mr. Vangelov precisely as part of our efforts to resolve this situation with regard to the Bulgarians-gagauses, which you are talking about. As a result of the submission of this opinion, we expect the Citizenship Council to give specific recommendations, if anything else needs to be done in order to adapt the administrative practice or regulatory framework to the Council's findings, so we are in the process of implementing and complying with the Council's practice to this opinion. Moreover, it was asked precisely for this purpose to serve as a first step towards resolving this problem. I am obliged to point out that the Minister of Justice is serving the Council's work, but I am not his supervisor, that is, I cannot assign him tasks. From this point of view, we expect the Council itself to rule out its findings on the necessary further steps to overcome this discriminatory situation, which you otherwise rightly note. I assure you that we are taking this problem very seriously and we are looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stanilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u277	Dear Minister, the main purpose of my question was to put before the face of the Bulgarian society, before the eyes of the Bulgarian society, this issue in order to acquire it, through the National Television and this procedure for control, legitimacy of the Bulgarian society, to make it clear that such a problem exists because most Bulgarians do not know it, and this issue to have citizenship, which is very important. Secondly, the Council of Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice does not regard gagauzas as persons of Bulgarian origin. This has become known and this is the internal work of this Council. Thirdly, within the meaning of the Law, the document which issued the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad for Bulgarian origin is the final one, it is the final one, it is the legal document. This Council of Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice, which I surprisingly learned, did not know these things so far, requires accompanying documents to this decision, which is illegal. The decision cannot be questioned by the Council of Citizenship at the Ministry. By law, it is a final decision, and because it is with the Ministry of Justice, you must take action in this regard. Otherwise, I am satisfied with your answer. I will monitor the situation on this issue and perhaps if my information confirms or denys in the next session of the National Assembly the autumn-winter, I will ask you questions in this sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u278	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mr. Minister doesn't want a doppelganger. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issues, which are 12, to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva. The first question to the Minister is from the MP Dimitar Delchev about irregularities in the management and inventory of forests in Samokov municipality. Here you are, Mr. Delchev, you have two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In recent months, since I was elected by Sofia District, I have received numerous signals of violation of legal logging in the municipality of Samokov. We are talking about illegal logging in state and municipal lands and forests in the case in the territories of Gorni Okol, Dospey and Prodanovtsi. At the same time, the development plans to be applied to the municipality are expired. I have been informed that a new forest inventory has been carried out in order to prepare and adopt new forest plans. Data resulting from the inventory will help establish the actual size of the logging. That is why I would like to meet the results of this inventory. A problem that existed a few months ago when they asked the question. Now it may be more obsolete, but with interest I will hear your point of view and what has been taken. In the forest sector people voice concerns about the mass cancellation of clearing permits issued by the Municipal Forests in the town of Samokov. The reason for the unlawfulness of these permissions is that contrary to art. 181, para. 5 of the Forest Law The mayor of Samokov has appointed a director of the Municipal Forestry, who does not have the education required to be able to sign the relevant permits and carry out the necessary activities. This appointment is obviously not within the competence of your ministry, but it is in relation to its subordinate bodies. You, with regard to these authorities, have common competence to control activities and law in the field of forests. In this regard, I have the following questions: is there found by the control authorities of your ministry in your care of illegal logging in the municipality of Samokov in 2014 and in what size? What was found in the last forest inventory, and what was it, total area and total quantity in cubic meters of forests in the municipality of Samokov? What is the share of each tree species? Does it decrease or increase the total area of forests when comparing the results between the last two inventories? How many are found and punished for illegal logging offenders in the municipality of Samokov and what sanctions have you imposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u280	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Delchev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! For the period 1 January 2014 There have been 650 violations in the municipality of Samokov on 30 June 2015. The following items and items are detained, means of committing violations. Round construction wood.. 171 cc. m, firewood - 94, facboarded wood - 3,27, motor vehicles - 18 pcs, wagons - 15, horse ammunition - 5, motor saws - 7, semi-trailer - 1 pcs. For violations committed by an unknown intruder, the following items have been detained: round construction wood m, firewood m; motor vehicles size 3 pieces, and motor saws 1 piece. For this period the offenders in the territory of the municipality of Samokov were imposed monetary sanctions of a total of 44 thousand. £900. In 2014 for detected violations of the municipality of Samokov, 333 acts were drawn up to establish administrative violations and 236 criminal decrees were issued. Since the beginning of 2015, only 139 acts for administrative violations have been drawn up and 21 criminal decrees have been drawn up so far. In carrying out current controls, violations have been found regarding the management by the mayors of municipalities for logging in forests. The Mayor of Samokov Municipality informed Sofia about the appointment of the head of the Municipal Company "Society" and who does not have the necessary education to take up this position, as a result of which the permits issued for logging in 2015 for forest areas owned by the municipality are unlawful and should be disenfranchised and the clearings certified. The Regional Directorate of Sofia also informed the district governor of Sofia about the violations committed by the mayors of the municipalities of Samokov, Zlatitsa and Koprivshtitsa. In the light of the above, 15 individual administrative acts have been issued to discourage logging aids. According to data from the inventory carried out in 2013 and the forest areas in the area of activity of the state-owned agricultural holding, Samokov, the total wooded area compared to the previous inventory decreased by 936 hectares. The reasons are that from the state-owned company "Borovets" have passed areas to the state-owned company "Kostenets" and during the unification of the state-owned forestry farms Borovets and Samokov there was overlap of areas that were reported incorrectly in 2010. The wooded area of the state forests owned by the state-owned company.. Samokov decreased by 1220 hectares, due to returned to Samokov Municipality forests and forest areas. The wooded area of forest areas owned by the municipality has increased by 2688 hectares due to the restoration of the municipality forests, as well as land municipal property, according to art. 19 of the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land having the characteristic of forest within the meaning of art. 2 of the Forest Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u282	Mr. Delchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have heard the last sentence that the municipal forests in the territory have increased due to the restoration of municipal forests of the municipality, but not because there has been afforestation and therefore illegal logging has decreased. I would therefore like to ask you: in your opinion, the measures implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Forest Agency, mainly in the area of Sofia region and specifically here for the municipality of Samokov, do they give the desired result? In particular, I couldn't hear, maybe I missed, did you say when the last inventory was?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u284	It's 2013.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u285	Yeah, 2013. Are you planning to make a new inventory, and do you think that the inventory process is sufficiently objective, good, detailed so that it really opens up on the basis of the forest plans that, again, I note that they are expired and it is not up to you to renew them in a short time, because the procedures are long, but this must also be done so that everything in the municipal and state forests in Samokov municipality can eventually be fine, to be ordered, to know who is where it is, what it is and accordingly to impose the necessary fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u286	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u287	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Delchev! To answer your question regarding measures against illegal logging. They started as early as the end of last year with the creation of 173 mobile forest protection teams and continue to this day with various measures, including the last legislative package, which is in procedure and goes its adoption in the National Assembly, and the amendments to this Law are once again aimed at increasing the effectiveness of control activities in the forestry territories regarding the legality of the activities carried out therein. I can certainly say that there has been an improvement in the outcome. This is definitely not the ultimate goal and our expected result, but this is the direction we are going and we need to go. Autumn must also complete all procedures in the respective forest enterprises concerning the introduction of the electronic transport ticket system, video surveillance and electronic traceability system of the harvested timber. In relation to the district of Sofia. It is certainly one of the areas with the most violations. Believe me, including sending mobile teams from other territories to control forest activities. I hope this works. Another feature is that many signals of violations, as is your case, there are in municipal forest enterprises, and there should also be paid attention to the local authorities that the control rights are also with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u288	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Delchev, I will give you the opportunity to develop your second question, which is once again to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and it is about a requirement for prior authorisation of the Regional................................ in the case of construction in agricultural land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u289	This is a slightly more specific and detailed issue related to several meetings in Blagoevgrad region, which I held and this problem was raised to me, I was alerted. Owners who wish to carry out construction in their agricultural land must submit all documents for the issue of a building permit, but must also receive one prior authorisation in the form of an opinion of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture on the location of the property. This requirement was introduced by Decree No 19 of 25 October 2012 on the construction of agricultural land without changing their purpose. However, they are highly burdened with this requirement, insofar as they are obliged to obtain this opinion in advance, they must pay an administrative fee. On the other hand, the Administrative Procedure Code also provides for a significantly more relaxed coordination procedure between administrative authorities, i.e. consent to be carried out by official means. In this regard, I would like to ask the following questions. What are the arguments for introducing a regulatory requirement for a preliminary opinion by the Regional Directorate for Agriculture for Construction in Agricultural Land?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u290	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u291	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Delchev, Members of the National Assembly! Ordinance No 19 of 25 October 2012 on construction in agricultural land without changing their purpose is a joint regulation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The purpose of this regulation is to enable farmers to build sites related only to the use of land whose functions are compatible with its purpose without the need to conduct a procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming purposes. The possibility for a natural or legal person to build under Decree No 19 of 2012 is not based on the category of land, the way of permanent use and its utility. The sites which farmers can build on their own agricultural land without carrying out a change of purpose procedure shall depend on the area of the property up to 10 decares per 10 decares, according to art. 2 of the same regulation. The opinion of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development shall be established on the basis of an on-the-spot check for the purpose of establishing whether the land is used as agricultural and property. On the basis of the property documents provided by the natural or legal person, as well as up-to-date drawings of the property, a business check shall be carried out in the registers of the restored property map for the establishment of the agricultural land in the specific land. On the basis of those documents and on-the-spot verification, the Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall issue a positive opinion within the time limits under the APC on the basis of art. Art. 11, art. 1, t. 4 of the regulation, according to its competence. The opinion shall state the investment intention of the person, the findings of the on-the-spot check, the documents submitted by the person, the area of the property established within the specified land. In its opinion, the Regional Directorate of Agriculture finds that land use is intended for the purpose of establishing the practice of this opinion that the person is the legitimate owner and the stated investment intention complies with the requirement of No 19, which lays down the conditions and order of construction in agricultural land without change of purpose. This regime is practically relieved. This opinion serves precisely to establish the fact that agricultural land will continue to be used for its agricultural purposes, as the expertise is precisely in the districts and with regard to the presence of agronomists and other specialists who can identify this. The legal framework in force does not provide for fees for issuing the opinion to the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture, as there was also such a question in your question. The purpose of agricultural land is to produce plant production and grazing of livestock in a way that does not harm soil fertility and health. The change in the purpose of agricultural land is permitted only exceptionally in case of proven need under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not provide for any change in the current legislation, as Decree No 19 of 2012 created one more favourable for farmers and a more relaxed regime for the construction of sites related to the use of land whose functions are compatible with its purpose without the need to conduct the process of change in the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u292	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Delchev, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Minister, the comprehensive and accurate answer. I think in the direction that we should do everything possible to alleviate administrative obstacles and administrative burdens and in the case of an investor coming to Bulgaria, buy land for agricultural purposes and try to build some buildings to serve this agricultural purpose. From the point of view that we know that the districts are sometimes not the fastest and sometimes this opinion requires a very long time to be given, makes it difficult, another step towards doing the work. I was thinking in the direction of this can it really be made some kind of service order in which the Regional Directorate of Agriculture is to send this opinion to the authorities that are still controlling the construction that issue the construction acts, because, without a doubt, the relief of not changing the purpose of the land in order to build any buildings is extremely important. However, it is also important not to get to additional engaging resources in time for people to build such service structures. I think we can come up with a way in which this position can be given as lightly and as quickly as possible, so that investors can be relieved. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u294	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Delchev! As I said, this regime is practically a relief for investors who carry out building constructions and buildings compatible with the functions of the agricultural purpose of the property on which it will be built. And this relief was introduced for investors in 2012. With this opinion in practice, we guarantee the preservation of the agricultural use of agricultural land on which this construction will take place. In other words, agricultural land is a basic means of production and it will remain such, however, construction. So we cannot go in the direction of abolishing such an opinion in any way. It is issued by order. If there is a delay anywhere, it shall only be subject to default within the relevant time limit of the employee, but in no case shall it be subject to a change.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u296	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mikov, I was worried that you were cut off, but I saw that you were very interested in listening to the answers to my colleague Delchev's question about the construction in the agricultural land. Now I give you the floor to develop your question on aid for dairy farmers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u297	Only Mr. Delchev to step aside so that the minister with great interest can follow the matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the situation with the purchase of milk in Bulgaria is tragic this year, incomparable with other years. The fall in prices you know. I don't need to tell you that in a percentage. The impact, the destruction of the Bulgarian dairy industry comes in several lines: the elimination of milk quotas, three times the average subsidies in the European Union, the opening of the Bulgarian market, and as a cherry thanks to the positions of the Bulgarian government in Russia and on the issue of sanctions, a ban on imports into the Russian market. Of about 100,000, over 100,000 are small and medium-sized farms in Bulgaria from 5 to 20 cows. [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] Is it less? Okay. But in this sector there is a livelihood for many people who have no other chance to survive, to live, and you are very clear that one third of the animals are in precisely such, small... You give to Europe, you report that the average price in Bulgaria, the reporting price is 25 euro cents. But you must tell our friends from Europe that this is the first category reporting price for the largest farms that are not many in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u298	Four thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u299	Over 4,000? Okay. At the same time, in Europe, the average price is 31 euro cents, much higher. We're putting in the subsidies. If you do not take any measures in the government.. urgent and clear, with short horizons, people will sell and slaughter the cows. Then they'll go to register for aid in the state. If there is no understanding from the government on this matter, there is a disaster ahead of us, a disaster in dairy cattle. Our MPs Bachvarova and Yankova 2 months ago raised this question. I go around the country, I talk to people, there is no change, the prices are such, you bring in dry milk, you bring in cheap milk from Hungary and Poland, Bulgarian salami cheese is produced and the result is this. So my question is: what measures will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u300	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u301	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Mikov, Dear Members of Parliament! In the sector, the situation is very difficult. It is not only in Bulgaria. The situation in the dairy sector is very difficult throughout the European Union. Just two days ago, we all saw that, except in Bulgaria, milk on the asphalt is poured even in France. This situation has started since the end of last year, even in the middle, I could say that you are right that this situation is mainly a result of two factors: the dropping of milk quotas, because for those countries that were over-producers, statistics report that there is already a rise in production after the quota has dropped, as there is no restrictive or sanctioning mechanism to suppress the increase in production. At the same time, according to forecasts and statistics, we are also seeing reduced market demand in the world and in the Community. So in Bulgaria the situation is as it is throughout the European Union and the situation of crisis in the sector, which we started talking about first, right at the end of last year, this opinion is already shared by all countries of the Community. Such a crisis in milk was in 2008 and 2009 and a regulation has been introduced on which, to this day, we are paying aid by national means. For May 2015, the price is lower, for example by 24%, compared to the price one year earlier. The statistics for June show 26 euros per 100 kg., as of course you are right about the farms of the so-called first category, which are over 4 thousand A little over 12 thousand are the remaining farms. What have we done? Under no circumstances can I share your opinion. On the contrary, the government has an understanding and has decided to support a total of 26 million. lv. State aid - de minimis. This happened in May. 100 leva was paid. a milk cow, and 7 leva. for sheep-mother and goat-mother. The total amount paid is 26 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. Outside of this aid, which is state and exceptional in relation to the situation and the crisis in the sector, we have taken several more legislative and regulatory measures. The changes to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land passed at first reading with consensus among all political forces. What should this lead to, in simple terms? As there is a line under which no permanent grassland users will be assisted, i.e. subsidies that came for such areas in good condition, a resource is expected between 60 and 70 million. lv. be redirected to the relevant livestock of the livestock farmers according to the manner in which these areas are used, which will be after February next year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is a change in the Regulation on the requirements of labelling and presentation of foods, with which we aim at at least 75% of the input materials and materials to be Bulgarian production and to bear the corresponding inscription. In addition, we are waiting for the approval of the Direct Sales Regulation, i.e. those of producers that are not really a first category, where the price is lower than the one that the statistics account for, can come out directly on the market under light conditions, i.e. what can support exactly the small producers you are talking about. In addition, we are restarting the school milk scheme, providing for a larger budget than it does........................................................................................ lv. at the end of this year or at the beginning of the new school year, where we plan to use 2.5 million. Literature of fresh milk.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u302	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mikov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u303	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, obviously the government is not in charge of this because you are telling me the things you said in March.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u304	No, I said de minimise.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u305	Just to let you know that what you've set aside as funds comes down to 0.03. help for a liter of milk. Not three, not one, but 33% of the pennies, and that's a bit of a joke. I don't know if you've ever bothered I've been involved and I'm not ashamed of how you look at a cow and what 0.03 cc means. per liter? It means nothing more than mockery, Madame Minister! The second question is that 80 million are the recognized direct losses for Bulgaria since the closing of the Russian market in the sector. Only these are direct losses. The question is: does the government have a methodology for indirect losses that are heavier, because of which people destroy their goals and livelihoods and their children's livelihoods? The other issue of principle is that market demand is shrinking. Madam Minister, ask your officials at the Ministry why hasn't the certification of Bulgarian dairy products been agreed with China yet? I can tell you why. Because it takes certain political efforts to enter the market where there is demand. The next principled question is to immediately introduce a ban on imports of foreign dry milk. With these suspensions-capels, 75% recommended, not to be added, only Bulgarian milk, with these customs and borders will remain wishful thinking. It won't affect, I'm sure! This is not a measure which could lead to a possible price retention. Forbidden import of dry milk. But Europe was about to undertake a criminal procedure. Well, to undertake Europe's penal procedure, since subsidies in the European Union are three times higher. This is a matter to be discussed in your Council of Ministers if we are equal and equal members of the European Union. Otherwise in Bulgaria next year no cows will be seen! I'm asking you for urgent measures of the government! This is not only a question of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is a matter of national policy and the government's attitude to the revival of the dairy industry in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u306	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u307	Mr. Mikov, I can't agree at all that the government isn't in charge. It is commendable that you were involved in cattle farming, but apparently the time was not enough to understand it well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u308	My father, I helped him.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u309	One, 100 leva. a milk cow is not 33% of the penny at all. You can count on the average statistical yield per year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u310	How much is it? Tell me, how much is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u311	Second, 100 leva. represents a little less than 50% of the annual payment up to the time that was received on the national budget. And these are the maximum possibilities within the budget that we have. Thirdly, in no way are your statistics that, in the Community and the European Union, there are three times higher subsidies for a milk cow, that is by no means true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u312	Not for a cow, but for milk. Not at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u313	Please don't replicate from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u314	It's the same thing if you help a milk cow as a head animal we'll do it head-on or we'll refer it to the average annual milk milk milk. This is definitely not true, I can say more about there are countries with lower support. Fourth, we cannot in any way prohibit imports of dry or any milk originating in the Community, for the simple reason that the Community market is a single one. What do we do? Set new boundaries?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u315	Tire the cows, then.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u316	It's about procedure at all. It is an opportunity to impose a practical and factual possibility of imposing such a measure. From the parliamentary tribune, I think we should not talk like at political meetings by going to elections and talking things that have nothing to do with the practical opportunity to implement some of the measures. With regard to increased intra-Community supplies, we have submitted a request and asked the National Revenue Agency, it has included milk products in risk goods. With regard to increased control, what we can achieve is only the payment of all traders, operators and producers of the VAT due. Yes, certainly these measures are insufficient. All the measures taken by the European Commission are insufficient for the milk sector in the Community as a whole. Again, I say this is a crisis that repeats the 2008 milk crisis with certainty. But to say that the Bulgarian government is not at all in class is just talking like that. What is possible as funds, without even being foreseen in the budget, has been paid. And that's possible. The other thing we will do after successfully passing the campaign on direct payments and farmers said their animals, in the first opportunity to pay early autumn, after the first possible date of October 16th. That's what we can do right now. Of course, we have made our request from December to the Commission, according to, of course, a direct aid regulation with European milk producers' income funds. There is no such solution yet, but there is already pressure from absolutely all sides, and there were 17 countries. When we left December, we were only with Romania.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u317	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Agriculture is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the Plan for Landing in the town of Zdalopol. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mrs. Taneva! You must have noticed that this is the second time I've asked you this question. And I'm asking you this because in the response to the procedure, you made a commitment not to delay last year, you made a commitment to meet with the residents of the town of Dozopol, who are victims of the fact that there is no plan for the land separation in the town of Dozopol. In the question so asked to you, I have used the opportunity to see the chronology as well. To remind you of it, although the team you work with probably also provided it. On 2 December you responded by informing not only me, but also the inhabitants of the town of Zdalopol, about the very chronology of the procedure for the plan for the land separation of the land. You have assured us that within a short period of time you will take the necessary action to finalise the process. To date, my question to you is: within what deadlines will the technical assignment be approved and its implementation will be awarded, so at the end of 2015, as you announced in December 2014, that by the end of next year, i.e. the current year, longpole will have a plan to land. When is your meeting with the citizens of the city of Zdalopol scheduled for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u319	I was on a date in Longfield. If you didn't understand, what should I do?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u320	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u321	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Yankov! First, before he answers, I would like to say that in the time since the first question was asked to this day, I visited the city of Longpole. Indeed, I made a commitment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to complete the activities of preparing and approving the plan for the land division of the town of Zdalopol. This issue has not been resolved for seven years, that is, including in your mandate. That's the statistic we're running. Now I'd like to inform you again about the procedures where we are a few months later. I think that would be useful information for everyone. Firstly, I inform you that the technical assignment has already been approved and its implementation is financially secured. To date, the following stages of the assignment have been implemented, namely the creation of a balance of territory for the land-sharing plan, according to the actual data provided by the municipal service............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The following stages are presented and are to be implemented: a survey to establish the current state and location of property owners, preparation of an opinion of the contractor for the detailed organization of the technical activities in the design of the project, preparation of a preliminary draft plan and publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, creation of a digital model of the project, accompanying sketches and balance. The activities, according to the assignment, are carried out by legal persons within the meaning of the Cadastral Act and the Property Register under contract with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The adopted and approved draft of the survey plan shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in order for the owners to become acquainted with it and if they consider it necessary to submit an objection within 14 days. The respected objections are reflected by the correction of the plan for separation, which is also promulgated in the Official Journal. In the opinion of the team that is working on this topic, although the activities that are ahead depend on communication with the owners, we are working on the plan at the end of the year to complete the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u322	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister! You most likely went to the municipality of Dozopol, but a specific meeting with interested parties on this topic has not become clear that it is being done. Otherwise, I would also be present, and as far as I know from the citizens of Dalgopol, this issue has not been discussed with the general public. But more important is the question, since there is a job, when will specific actions be assigned to the company to start the procedure and reach this deadline at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u324	They've already been assigned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u325	Okay. So the residents of the town of Zladopol can be calm, the specific activities of the company that is engaged have already been assigned. Of course, with gratitude on behalf of all those interested in future work, taking the job and getting it done. Not for these seven years, but for more than that, there is no plan to land the land of the city of Longpole and people are waiting. My line is in the direction that within a year and three months the Oresharski cabinet started and started this procedure which you must complete. And hopefully by the end of the year it will be a fact. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u326	After these thanks to Mr. Iankov, would you like a duplicate? No, you don't. We move on to the next question by the MP Philip Popov concerning the destruction of forest massifs in the municipality of Belogradchik. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in the winter months of 2015 in the area of the municipality of Belogradchik from a natural disaster, thousands of acres of forest massifs were destroyed. Destroyed and dry forests create prerequisites for forest fires during the summer season. My questions to you are: how many of the destroyed arrays are state and how many municipal property? Are you and when will you take action to afforest these forest arrays and what preventive action will the state take in relation to the prevention of forest fires? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u328	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u329	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, as a result of the inventory it has been found that 108 hectares of municipal forests have been affected, including: deciduous The damage is expressed in the removal and breaking of the stalks of the trees. For the urgent utilisation of the damaged wood, which is essential for maintaining the good condition of forests in the municipality of Belogradchik, a North-West State enterprise has taken the necessary action to prioritize the conduct of sanitary logging in the plantations affected by ice-oloma, and in the two state-owned forestry farms all regular inspection and restoration sections have ceased. By 15 July 2015, the employees of the two holdings marked 81% or 686 hectares of damaged wood areas for 40% or 272 hectares of damaged wood of 16 thousand. Cube. M of the crop-marked crops have already been produced. As of 15 July 2015, an area of 111 hectares has been absorbed and 6100 cubic feet have been harvested. m damaged wood. Such procedures are to be carried out for the rest. The marking of the remaining damaged plantations, for which public procedures for wood utilisation will be carried out in due course. The significant volume of the wood concerned suggests that its absorption will continue in 2016. Given that the damage rate does not exceed 70% in the deciduous plantations, it will rely mainly on the natural seed and screw-up renewal. After cutting down the injured trees, additional care will be taken to assist the natural renewal, which does not exclude afforestation. In the coniferous forests of artificial origin, after removal of damaged wood and release of the areas, actions will be taken to afforestation as the deadline for this, under the Forests Act, is 2017. In 2016, the activities related to their afforestation will begin in loose areas occupied by coniferous crops, the production of saplings, the preparation of the soil for afforestation and the start of afforestation. The fact that glacial plantations are predominantly deciduous reduces the likelihood of forest fires in them, as deciduous forests have the lowest degree of fire hazard. With the measures taken by the Northwest State-owned enterprise for the faster absorption of damaged wood, the risk of fires and calamitity is very limited. Mineralised stripes are created and maintained in vulnerable areas, fire alarms are appointed and permanent control of areas with a potential risk of fires is carried out. During the new programming period of the Rural Development Programme, a national network of fire towers will be built into which these territories will be included. All possible measures have also been taken within the existing legal framework, which includes both organisational and economic and forestry measures. The organisational measures are related to limiting planned regular logging. The economic measures are expressed in reducing losses from the sale of damaged wood as the most valuable assortment is realized. The forestry measures are related to the protection of plantations from fires, the maximum use of natural renewal and production of the necessary quantities of sapphires for afforestation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u330	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a line, Mr. Popov? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the people of Belogradchik from Vidin don't feel that the state is taking the necessary care of them. I had questions to your colleagues from the Council of Ministers about this particular feeling. The high-speed four-way E 79 Sofia Vidin was taken out of the Operational Program "Transport" and the second-time flights are already exported from Vidin, the road network of the second- and third-class roads in Vidin region is terrible, the district hospital in Vidin is left to fight under uneven conditions with a private hospital. The start of the project for the Salash checkpoint, a new trough, gave him a cross to this government, and your colleague, the Energy Minister, started to fix the Bulgarian energy sector by removing its main problem, I mean the energy sector, the small enterprise Visahim, which gave bread to 400 families. In this situation, it seems that the main wealth left at this end is people and nature. You have the opportunity and you can take care of the wonderful nature of Belogradchik and from here to tourism at this end by speeding up the procedures for removing the dried wood and helping to reforest the forest of Belogradchik. These data that you delivered and what you said that a procedure has started, I hope it will be accelerated, and in the shortest possible time, really Belogradchik will restore this glamour of his nature, which he had and with which he was glorified not only in Bulgaria, but at the world level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u332	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u333	Dear Mr. Popov, for statistics I can say that up until now the wood used is 50 thousand. It's a cubic meter of what I announced just now in my response. With regard to your thesis on the care of the government and the attitude towards the Northwestern region, I can strongly disagree with your opinion by giving you a simple example of the statistics from the already launched Rural Development Programme for the new 2014-2020 programming period, which received approval in May, even a few months earlier, before even our forecasting and we launched the first measure 4.1 for investments in farmers. This programme is clearly prioritized, such as all intensive sectors of agriculture, which also bring employment such as livestock, permanent crops, vegetable production are priority, but it is a priority and the Northwestern region, where all candidates from Northwestern Bulgaria received some additional points, which gave them an advantage in the polling process, which is to be announced. Thus, everyone decided to invest in the Northwestern region will have advantages, and this is essential in them and a great advantage, given the fact that they applied for more than 4.5 times more applied budget than there was in the first measure. Even from the priority sectors will not be approved all of them due to lack of budget, but the advantage will be for all of Northwestern Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u334	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry is from the MP Petar Georgiev Kadiev regarding the use of the wood material fell in Smolyan region during the heavy snowfalls. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, it's been a rough winter this year. Huge snowfalls that have caused irreparable damage to the forest. Nearly 1 million. 200,000. The cube was dropped to the ground. At the moment, this huge tree table stands and nothing is being done about it. So my question is: is the collection and use of the material of the fallen trees in Smolyan, Kardzhali and partly Haskovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u336	Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kadyev! Yes, indeed, the natural disaster has caused enormous damage to the area. I want to assure you that we also have a very clear plan for the absorption of fallen wood. It is, however, very unevenly distributed, and in part of some state forestry farms, for example, one of them represents 850% of the planned annual logging, which puts to an extreme test the colleagues of the South Central Enterprise on the organisation for the absorption of the fallen mass. There are already tenders and procedures. There are about 25% of the planned annual utilisation of fallen wood, which has already been carried out, and the auctions have also called for this, including external contractors, so that we can absorb the rate of absorption of the fallen mass, so that it does not lead to various processes that can damage the healthy forest. Another problem in this procedure also creates the lack of a sufficiently good forest road infrastructure. In some of the areas where there is a fallen mass, it is very difficult to access, and this makes it difficult, but outside the other three farms, where the fallen mass is in considerable volume, but far from the planned logging for the year, the absorption goes. The planned logging has been stopped in these farms. The only problem is the holding with this high percentage, where we plan to complete the absorption process by the end of next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u338	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u339	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I know it will be very difficult for you because this is a huge mass, as you said, 850% must be absorbed, knowing that this is one fifth of the entire yield in a year. We're already in the middle of the year. There are very few months left to enjoy until the first snow falls. I think your task is very difficult, and I hope with joint efforts to do something so that this mass does not stay, because if it remains, it will damage in any case. The forest will be infected, and you know that these are the lungs of Bulgaria and from there the damage will cause a lot of damage, which in the years will reflect. I hope strongly to your organization in order to prevent this additional disaster that may occur with the contamination of forests. I also take this opportunity to thank you on behalf of the Chitalishte of Botev, where you donated 80 cc's from this land mass. I think this is the right approach so that at least these Chitalishtes and cinemas that currently exist can use this wood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u340	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Madam Secretary? You don't want a doppelganger. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Petar Slavov concerning companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which had funds in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the amount of funds, interest rates and other conditions. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will ask this question, which is the last of a series of questions that my colleague Martin Dimitrov and I have asked to all the cabinet members about the funds that were in the CCB, funds of state enterprises, funds of organizations whose principal were ministries and which, unfortunately, the funds were found to be irrevocably lost at least in their majority. It was about 250 million. lv. and some of them were obviously also in enterprises whose principal is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Dear Minister, in response to a parliamentary question to the Minister of Finance regarding his powers under art. 12a, para. 6 of the Bankruptcy Act I was informed that the following companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, had a significant number of funds in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, had at the time of its special supervision: the South-Eastern State Enterprise. With regard to the amount of funds and the authority on whose decision these amounts were deposited in the CCB, the Minister of Finance indicated that it did not have this information, but could be requested by the portfolio ministry. As regards the possible objections of these undertakings to banking secrecy, please note that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as a principal of these companies may require information about the funds available, including the funds invested in a bank. In view of the above, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: which companies with State participation, including those listed above, of which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is a principal, had funds in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, at what amount, at which rate and at which rate of interest of which body of the company? By also specifying whether the Order of the Council of Ministers No 127 of 27 May 2013 was implemented with regard to the maximum amount of funds that can be concentrated in a bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u342	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u343	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, in implementation of Decree No 127 of the Council of Ministers from 2013 and according to Annex 3 to art. 13b of the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the State in commercial companies with state participation in the capital six state-owned enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Act gradually introduced within the prescribed deadline the rules for selecting a contractor for providing financial services by credit or financial institutions within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act. The procedures are awarded in accordance with the order of the Public Procurement Act with assessment criteria for an economically advantageous tender. Following orders for serving banks, four of the state-owned enterprises entered into contracts with "KTB" JSC. The entities that have opened payment and deposit accounts in CCB shall be the following: The State-owned bank is the bank's bank's bank account and the bank's balance sheet is the same as the bank's bank's balance sheet and the bank's balance sheet is the same as the balance sheet of the bank's balance sheet. As of the closing date of the Bank, 20 June 2014 the amount invested in a payment account amounted to 1 million. 252,000. lv. South-West State-owned enterprise supplied under a contract concluded on 22 October 2013 with an annual nominal interest rate of 1% on payment accounts and an annual deposit account interest rate of 6,25%. The amount invested in the Bank in a paying account amounts to 552 thousand. lv. Smolyan State-owned entity, under a contract concluded on 5 November 2013, with an annual nominal rate of 1% on payment accounts and an annual deposit account interest rate of a maximum of 6,5%. The amount invested in the Bank amounts to a total of 9 million. 123,000. lv., as 92 thousand. lv. It's on a deposit account, and 9 million. 31,000. lv. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. North-central state-owned enterprise "Gabrovo" concluded a contract on 20 July 2013 with an annual nominal rate of 1% on payment accounts and an annual deposit account interest rate of a maximum of 6%. The amount invested in the Bank amounts to a total of 1 million. 162 thousand. BGN, as 1 million 112 thousand. lv. are on deposit accounts and on a payment account of 50 thousand respectively. lv. After payment of the amount of the guaranteed deposit of 196 thousand. BGN, the rest of the funds are 966 thousand. lv. As of the closing date of the Corporate Commercial Bank, there is no concentration of net exposure of more than 25% of the total cash of the state-owned enterprises. The amount of the aggregate net exposure to the CTB (AD) by state-owned enterprises is separately as follows: South-eastern state-owned enterprise.. 21,84%; South-West State-owned enterprise..36%; South-Central State-owned company..19.65%; North-Central State-owned enterprise..44%. In addition to these four enterprises, no other commercial company to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as the Ministry itself and all its secondary officers, do not have any accounts in the Corporate Commercial Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u344	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u345	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary. By my rude count, from what I've heard, about 12 million. lv. were the funds of all the businesses that you quoted and that were at KTB, of which I suppose the vast majority were lost. Probably each of them, if it's used the defense of about 200,000. BGN, by subtracting them, it is estimated that about 11 million have been lost. lv. That's an extremely unpleasant fact. A little earlier today, we commented on the Forest Law. It was said that the wages of the forest guards, of the foresters and all who are engaged in forest protection, on illegal logging and so on are not well paid. Maybe these funds instead of being lost could have been aimed at something much better. That's the reality. I take this opportunity to point out to you that I have been impressed by the fact that the heads of the South East State Enterprise and of the North Central State Enterprise who have concluded these contracts are currently there since 2011. If they are actually found in checking the procedures how exactly this bank was chosen, whether the Law is respected and in particular whether there is any breach of the Order for Deconciliation, you could ask them the relevant questions and commit responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u346	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? No. The next question is from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova on the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the issue of mass cuts at the Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute. Here you are, Mrs. Balabanov, for the presentation of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! In connection with the mass cuts at the Dobrudjan Agricultural Institute, General Toshevo, scientists, specialists and workers blocked until recently every day for an hour the international road Dobrich Kardam. The occasion was the decision of the Management Board of the Agricultural Academy, according to which the state of the largest research institute in the structure of the Academy had to be reduced by 16%, i.e. by 45 stats. The cuts at the moment are already a fact. The employees at the Institute declared against these cuts after the cuts in all units of the Agricultural Academy are 10% and are firmly for the return of the 3 million. lv. from the budget of the Agricultural Academy. The Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute is the largest research institute in the structure of the Agricultural Academy. In addition, the Institute is the structure that brings the most revenue as a selection center for the creation, introduction and distribution of Bulgarian varieties of wheat, barley, beans, lentils, hybrid and sunflower. However, until May 2015, the Ministry had not paid the electricity spent. Today, I realized that thanks to the question that I introduced as a representative of the "Attack" last week, this electricity has been paid, but no funds for fuel and spare parts have been transferred yet, although we are in a harvest period. The Institute has 35 BGN. of a direct charger. At the same time, it reported to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food revenue from sold agricultural seed for 1 million. 200,000. lv. and over 700,000. lv. to the Fund of Agriculture. Abbreviating the state of Dobrudzhanian Agricultural Institute by specialists and the timely funding of the Institute's activities, it is given the opportunity to establish external companies permanently on the Bulgarian market for planting material, which will damage both the farmer and the Bulgarian state. In this regard, my questions are: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take to resolve the problem, and in this case not to prevent mass dismissals, but rather to compensate those 45 families who have lost their jobs? Does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food intend to recover the 3 million taken? lv. From the budget of the Agricultural Academy? I would very much like you to answer me as Minister of Agriculture: will you come up with an official position on the allegations and rumors that the whole of Dobrudja has been goosebumped that 15 thousand acres will be taken away from the Institute and will be provided to individuals associated with the Political Party GERB, as well as MPs from the parliamentary group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u348	Thank you, dear Mrs. Balabanov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u349	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Balabanov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! With regard to layoffs, yes, they have ended. I've answered that question several times. For the Agricultural Academy, the number of 2272 became 1922 stats or was reduced by 350 stats or 15.4%. Of the total number of the Institute in General Toshevo, which is 282 stats, 45 people or 16% were made redundant, with an average of 15.4% for the Agricultural Academy. 45 staff members, respectively, of which 14 are unoccupied, so we are not talking about 45 families at all. Of the 24 made redundant are with secondary education, occupying the post of performer-borrower, lab technician or technician. Four of them have primary education. A janitor or performer-breeder, and two with a higher degree Bachelor at a job as a lab technician. The updated establishment plan of the Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute has already removed posts that are not typical for modern scientific institutes, such as photographers. There was such a state office that was absconded. I don't think anyone can say that this position is necessary. From the established expenditure ceiling of the Academy for 2015, which is 20 million. Five hundred and fifty-five thousand. BGN, the Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute was granted 2 million. $575,000. lv. or 12.5%, and the difference is for the other 26 units. I believe that the necessary attention has been paid in the scope of the budget that we have. Three million leva will in no way be taken from the budget. Yes, there is a buffer left behind and this is basically a disciplinary effect in order to implement the budget, as the National Assembly voted on it with the adoption of the budget at the end of 2014. Of course, the funds by the end of the various costs will be provided. I'm gonna add something to the cutbacks. I will give an example of the ratio of staff, because in the cuts that were made at the Dobrudzhan Agricultural Institute, one part of them belonged to pre-retirement employees and practically retired. An example of the ratio of scientists to remaining staff. At the Agricultural Academy, the ratio is 1:2,4 of auxiliary staff. I want to give you information about the French National Institute for Agricultural Studies INRA: the number of scientists involved in the research of wheat is 89, and the support staff is 86, or the ratio is 1:1. For the Institute in General Toshevo, which we are talking about, account for the ratio of how many times the normal practice in Europe is, even in times above that of the Agricultural Academy. Regarding the concerns you expressed about the agricultural areas used and committed to the activities of the Institute, there is in no way a procedure nor is it possible to have such a procedure for providing this agricultural land to anyone other than the Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u350	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Balabanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, listening to you, you will forgive me the slang, but I am under the impression that the Dobrudjan Agricultural Institute and the Agricultural Academy have bloomed and tied up. I don't understand why they underestimate and neglect some cutbacks. These are human destinies. These are families. Don't do that! I cannot understand why you are trying to destroy something that works for Bulgaria. The Institute currently brings 5 million to the Bulgarian state. BGN, despite the angle in which it is currently pressed, and by your management. If all the electricity bills, spare parts, fuel bills were paid in time, then the profits would amount to even 10 million. Why don't we work to assist the Institute and not stop it, make it difficult and even destroy it? If the Institute is in such good condition, why don't you go now, for example, these days, next week to General Toshevo. Let's see how they welcome you, because I'm a little suspicious of the good intentions of the people there. You're always complaining that there's no money, no money for pensions, no money for salaries. Here's something that brings money to the state, and we don't support it. If you, as a minister, are paid a salary for a year in full, but to pay your expenses for the previous one, I am very interested in how you will tie the family budget. However, the salaries of ministers are higher than those of the MPs, let us not forget it, because it is speculated. As for the rumors that you will take the land, what I am saying as a concern to the people of Toshevo and what I have learned is that you will first take their animals and then it will turn out that they do not need land after they have no animals. This land, I will not specify names, this land, through appointed persons, will be granted to MEPs from GERB, who, by the way, as far as I understand, in informal talks state this intention. I don't know if there's a procedure, but let's live and see if that's what's going to happen. If it happens, then I and not just me, which is worse, will ask for your resignation from here to General Toshevo and vice versa. If, in order to pay for electricity, fuel and all the necessary expenses of the Institute, which is the duty of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I need to bring in and bring in questions to you, the MPs from the National Assembly of Ataka with 11 in number. Every month if I bring in one question, maybe by the end of the year you'll pay back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Here you are, Minister Taneva, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u353	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Balabanov, I've decided to make a coat to help you out a little. I was a MP for two terms and my salary was considerably higher than it is now as a minister. So let's tell the truth. Second, which is why I'm taking the floor basically. You are a member of parliament with significantly high salaries. Sit down and read a little before you talk and ask questions so we don't get up... [[Reply from the National Representative Kalina Balabanov.]] Rather, there is no need to wonder what the rating of the National Assembly is. The Institute's agricultural land is not provided for animals. Let's talk about serious matters. Autumn we will present a legislative package for reform of the Agricultural Academy, so that only from the scientific potential, the management of the respective chairman, the head of the unit and the results shown will depend on their funding and development.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u354	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in the manner of conduct, Mrs. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to ask you to follow the rules! As in our Rules, it is regulated that we are not allowed to insult ministers, other Members of the National Assembly, to ensure that this does not happen on the part of the Ministers to us. Just because I am a MP from the only opposition in this House and in this Parliament, and I can afford to criticize and tell the truth in the eyes of the ministers, does not mean that when they have nothing to answer, they have to afford to insult. It's very easy like that, only there are viewers watching and watching. If you think you're right and I'm not aware of it, go to General Toshevo. I'll personally come and escort you, see how we're both greeted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u356	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. The next question is from the MP Vili Lilkov on the expansion and modernisation of the activities of the Executive Agency "Fighting with hails" at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov, for a statement of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u357	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is related to the activities of the Executive Agency "Fighting cities" at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In the last few years in Southeast Europe and Bulgaria in particular increased the frequency and strength of the devastating for agriculture hails. Outside those protected by the Executive Agency for the Fight against hail territories, significant damage has been caused, resulting in losses of hundreds of millions of levs. When I checked with the Executive Agency's website on the annual reports made by this Agency, I found something very interesting, which is ultimately disturbing. It's about this. More than ten years the same are the analyses, findings and conclusions made by the Executive Agency. They come down to this: what is needed? To seal the network of missile sites in the protected territory of the country by building new rocket sites. Second: to expand the protected areas by building new launch sites; to create new regional directorates east of Pleven and south and southeast of Stara Zagora and Sliven to combat hails; to include the metrology radar network to the European Network These are findings and recommendations that are repeated each year and obviously nothing new is being done. After all, my question is this: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take to deal with hails and prevent losses? Why are all these findings of the Agency not being worked on and we need to make the same findings for consecutive years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u358	Thank you, dear Professor. Lilkov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Lilkov, honourable MPs! The Executive Agency is active in anti-city operations through 200 missile sites, distributed to nine hail control polygons under the direction of eight regional departments. The aim is to minimise the damage caused by hail, with the success rate moving worldwide between 40 and 80% depending on the hail protection method. Through the method used in the fight against hails in Bulgaria, the success rate is at a good world level. On average 73% of the areas on which there is such protection. The methodology for combating hailstorms is consistent with both the conditions in Bulgaria and the requirements of the World Metrological Organization at the UN. An interactive radar system of three two-channel Doppler radars, modernized at the latest 3,10 cm wave length, is built in the Executive Agency. The radar provides monitoring, detection and over-short-term forecast for strong lights, storms, hails and other adverse weather phenomena. The Executive Agency has the latest technical tools and systems for shooting management, specialized software products and communication systems. The need for a Single Information System for Dangerous Metrological phenomena is the basis for creating a common radar network in Europe. Bulgaria is one of the few countries in Europe that does not submit information to the Opera. The most modern-day interactive information system with two-channel Doppler radars requires it to be included in the Common European Network, which will increase the protection in the country. This can only be done when covering the entire territory of Bulgaria and working all year round on radar. In 2013 a project was prepared to expand the territory protected by the town territories by building three polygons to combat hails with 90 rocket sites located on the territories between Haskovo, Yambol and Svilengrad, as well as in the area of Pavel Banya. With the implementation of the project, the territory protected by cities should be increased by 6 million. decares located mainly in small farms where intensive crops are grown. Agricultural production of 900 million is grown in the proposed areas for protection from hail. lv. The project to build this system is worth 11 million. 430 thousand leva, but, unfortunately, has not been implemented due to the fact that its funding has not been secured. The only strategy, vision and way of developing the agency is to expand the territories on which there is such anti-urban protection, for which we are in the process of searching for different forms of funding, including a type of restructuring, which will allow the use of European funds to build such sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u360	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I strongly agree with you that the Executive Agency is doing its job in the volume in which it is entrusted. I agree that the skills and qualities of the people who work there and the technique they have are good. It is a question of not expanding the network for years, which makes it difficult for all both farmers and insurers in their activities, and huge damage is being caused. In this case, it is about this. As far as I can tell from you, $11 million. lv. I could help in this regard, in the sense that it is entirely possible for municipalities to build with European funds, under the methodological leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Executive Agency such polygons, which can subsequently transfer to the Ministry of Agriculture, respectively to the Executive Agency for operation. As far as I know, there are opportunities, so take advantage of them. After all, for years a large percentage of Bulgaria's territory cannot be secured against such disasters. Just 11 million, to tell you the truth, if I were you, I would do everything I can to get them into the next budget, I guarantee you, there will be no MP who refuses to vote and get into the budget. I advise you, and you may know better than I do: take advantage of these opportunities that municipalities have. They will allocate the relevant parcels, build them and then be able to provide them to the Executive Agency for operation already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u362	Thank you, dear Professor. Lilkov. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u363	Honourable Professor. Lilkov, thanks for the offer. As a matter of fact, that's a proposal I've been hearing for the second time and it's being given. The first was a meeting I had with farmers in the Haskovo region. They suggested the same concept. As I have already said, we are really looking for the right solutions right now, so that we can use all the mechanisms and tools available to the Ministry so that we can stimulate an increase in the areas on which there is anti-urban protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u364	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Zhelyo Boychev on the Agriculture Cooperation Agreement with the Republic of Turkey as of March 2015. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to expose your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, since the beginning of the year you and your team have had a very intense dialogue and talks with your colleagues from the Republic of Turkey. The result was announced publicly by you that the Bulgarian market will be open to Bulgarian animals, specifically for export of live animals and other products. I can also quote your statements on how important it is to reopen the market and remove the obstacles that hinder trade between the two countries. Our sector has very good opportunities for development, you say. As a culmination of this meeting was a major media event in the Council of Ministers, where both the Prime Minister and you and all the representatives of the sector have hardly announced that from now on the trade with the Republic of Turkey will be strengthened and there are no obstacles to the export of Bulgarian living animals. The signing of an agreement on the development of agriculture with the Republic of Turkey was announced by your Deputy Minister. It provoked me to request this agreement in writing. As expected, there was no such agreement. It was signed 1979. It is another meeting of the Management Committee that has been held. There is nothing specific in the transcript that has been attached to your response as a commitment that has been made by signing this agreement. In this regard, as it was clear what commitments you have made, the dimensions on the Bulgarian budget are clear and they are within millions of levs of canceled disinfection fees, so I would like to ask specifically what is the amount of Bulgarian live animals that have been exported since the beginning of the year so far? Are they placed within the framework of these talks with the Turkish side? The concrete obstacles facing the export of Bulgarian live lambs and why, after a fee has been removed from the Bulgarian country, such a charge continues to be collected for Bulgarian trucks from the Republic of Turkey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u366	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u367	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Boychev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Such a question concerning the suspension of the operation of the disinfecting site below, I also have two other MPs from other political forces from BSP is Mr. Boychev. It's the same question. You're obviously very interested in the subject of this playground. Wonderful! Dear Mr. Boychev, first of all, I would like to say that the Republic of Turkey, apart from being a country that is highly active in agriculture, beyond being a large country, invests a lot in the sector of Agriculture and is now one of the leading countries. It is extremely important as a possible strategic trading partner for Bulgarian farmers. In the history of recent years, we can give many examples of what actions have been taken and done by us, which do everything possible for these trade relations to reach the stage in which, when there was a special menu with Bulgarian veal, Bulgarian lamb, there would be no more. From there on in all the relationships we have, we must continue to develop them in the direction of restoring normal trade exchanges. Yeah, we had a visit to Turkey. Yes, you are right in terms of having a signed agreement long before democracy, for example, to say it, and for years I do not know how many were in statistics, I am not ready to say, but at least 10 years a joint meeting of the last committee was not held, which was determined for trade relations between the two parties. We have had it and we have reached certain arrangements. Some of them have been executed, others are in procedure, but this is not a matter of one or two months. I would like to say that the procedure for the approval of veterinary certificates for Bulgarian live animals is completed and everything is already a matter, including a decision by the Ministry. You know that they have elections, there is expected cabinet and holder, in terms of quotas already. If you do not know, the trading regime as with regard to the duty you asked a question here, it is the same for the whole community, it does not only concern Bulgaria. All the actions we do as a country must be consistent with a realistic factual situation and reasons, not on other occasions, so that we can stop or stop some very good trade relations that we have had and on top of which Bulgarian farmers have relied very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u368	The line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u369	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. I can't be satisfied with that answer. There is hardly anyone who can argue that the Republic of Turkey is an important partner for Bulgaria, but as a national representative, and I think that you, as Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, are more important to us how Bulgarian agriculture develops and how the Bulgarian interest is protected. So I took the liberty of asking specific questions. I didn't get an answer about this: from the beginning of the year whether Bulgarian live animals were exported? I hope further, when I ask that question again, I get that answer. There is nothing wrong with defending Bulgarian agriculture and looking for an opportunity to realize its production, but you haven't answered the question: why hasn't the question been raised in the things you had as talks that the Turkish country continues to collect fees? I asked them to take pictures of Bulgarian transport operators. I can leave you a deck of taxis. [[a line from Minister Desislava Atanasova]] which in the last month gather on the Turkish side. So I would like to hear if this question has also been put in these conversations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u370	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u371	Of course it was. All issues that are a problem for us on the Bulgarian side and were accumulated in the last minutes, as on their part, were raised. We announced what our agreement is, including with regard to their disinfecting site, which was introduced much later and as a result of actions that the Bulgarian side made. With regard to all activities from now on, which should be carried out, we have reached an agreement following what common communications should be made. Again, everything that is being done must be really justified and there must be a factology for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u372	Question of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the performance of control functions by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the use of authorised plant protection preparations on the territory of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u373	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question is related to the performance of control functions by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the use of authorisation of plant protection preparations on the territory of the country. As you well know, a whole new Plant Protection Act was adopted in July 2014. According to the requirements of this Law, within six months, it was necessary to prepare, publish and apply regulations to arrange for the State to perform its functions. You know that this is about important regulations relating to the terms and conditions of production, placing on the market, trading repackaging, transport, Regulation on the terms and conditions of use of plant protection products. The official control of the implementation of the Law is the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Plant Protection Act states that plant protection products are used in accordance with the marketing authorisation for use. In accordance with this function, the Food Agency shall publish and update each year on its website a public register of plant protection products for which authorisation has been granted. The register, which is an official document, shall include information on the crops for which products, time limits, quarantines and so on are used. My question to you is related to this: is there control of compliance of authorised plant protection products with the direction for which companies have therefore been authorised on the territory of the country? Another issue that is also important and which creates problems for many farmers is: how is it monitored for the destruction of empty packaging of plant protection products? Is this activity controlled and is there any prerequisites and opportunities for it to be regulated in such a way as to protect consumers and create prerequisites for them to be destroyed according to the requirements of European regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u374	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u375	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, the establishment of unauthorised use of plant protection products on plants and plant products in their primary production is part of the control activity performed by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency under the Plant Protection Act. Plant protection preparations authorised in Bulgaria are 575 pieces and 220 new ones are in the authorisation procedure. Trade, repackaging, storage and use of plant protection products and persons carrying out those activities shall be subject to control. The control of farmers on the use of these products includes: documentary control of the records of the plant protection products used in the diaries, second control of the terrain, which monitors the use of those products with ground equipment, aviation, decontamination of seeds, as well as their presence on the holding, their storage method by the farmer and the storage of empty packaging respectively. Plant samples shall also be taken in the production of agricultural production as well as plants intended for feed to identify the plant protection products used. The levels of pesticide residues and their compliance with the specified maximum levels shall be assessed. Samples shall be analysed in the Central Laboratory for Chemical Testing and Control, which is the National Reference Laboratory for Pesticide Residue Analysis and Mycotoxin Content. The control bodies of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency carry out annual control of 1% of the registered producers for compliance with the Plant Protection Act. In 2014, inspectors from the Regional Food Safety Directorates carried out checks of 5% and in some areas up to 7% of registered farmers. For 2015 a verification of 5% of registered farmers was planned. Empty packaging is categorized as hazardous waste, therefore the farmer must have a signed contract either with a licensed company under the Waste Management Act or with the distributor of plant protection products. The contract effectively implements and guarantees the proper management of hazardous waste. The Plant Protection Act obliges from 1 January 2016 persons placing plant protection products on the market and persons repackaging those products to develop and apply a system to recall empty packaging from the end-user of plant protection products. Bulgarian Plant Protection Industry Association launched a pilot project to create a system for collecting used plastic packaging from pesticides. In the spring of 2014 the project was implemented in the areas of Dobrich, Silistra, Ruse, Varna and Razgrad and is a first step towards organizing the real management of empty pesticide packaging. The system provides farmers with a safe way of releasing empty plastic packaging from pesticides. It is planned for 2015 - 2016 business year expansion of the system on a national scale, with the collection of three-fold rinsed pesticide packaging will take place in two campaigns per year: months of May - June, and October - November. The aim is to establish an effective system for collecting used pesticide plastic packaging available to each farmer in accordance with the legal requirements corresponding to the safety standards and good agricultural practices. The website of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency provides accessible information for all interested parties regarding the authorised plant protection products and their correct application, the health risks of farmers, consumers of plant production and the environment from the use of banned plant protection products, as well as the results of the control activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u376	The line is prof. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u377	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the answer, which is related to the real need to do and carry out systematic control of plant protection products, which are used in Bulgarian agriculture and not only authorised, but also those that are prohibited. For one reason or another, they are present on the Bulgarian market. But, anyway, as far as I know from the answer, you rely primarily on checks that physically identify one or the other violations. But it's like a little bit away from the companies dealing with plant protection products. My observations, what I have found, show that large companies have permits to produce or make available on the market plant protection products on the one hand, which are published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Food Agency, but at the same time in their company catalogues, which are on the website and on paper importers, they allow these products to recognize them for other diseases and enemies, which are not allowed in Bulgaria. I'm setting an example. We take a catalog in which it is written that a product of a company is carried out and through it is fought against gray rot, but only in the vineyards and this is what is allowed in Bulgaria. However, the company catalogue of the same company provides similar information that this product can be used: in Italy it is used for strawberries and plums, in Slovenia it is used for pepper, in France for strawberries with a detailed description of quarantine periods, in doses. The farmer will use an unauthorised plant protection preparation by practically buying this preparation, because this plant protection preparation can only be used for what is authorised in Bulgaria by all applicable regulations. So plant protection companies working in Bulgaria to ensure that these plant protection preparations are legalized in Bulgaria in order to be able to use them for all directions for which they believe they are necessary. I hope that through this issue I will draw attention to this particular problem which arises, because, after all, we are a Member State of the European Union, and legislation in this direction is mandatory for all countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u378	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u379	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Professor. Bachvarova! Yes, you're right in the line you made for this case. There is such a case and such a problem, such as the problem and especially for farmers, who, having a registered preparation for one culture and can be used for others, practically makes this use illegal. Moreover, and in various State aids, when admissions are granted, for example for winter spraying, the scope of authorised preparations becomes smaller. One of the main reasons for this was explained to me by the deputy executive director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The producer should not register the preparation for all possible types of plants that can be used is the fee that they have to pay for registration. In this sense, we are currently working on changes in legislation in a way that makes the preparation accessible if it is intended for other plant species. If you have proposals in this regard in the Plant Protection Act, we can also consider them. But the case is such that the manufacturer really registers for one type of plant disease, it can be used for others, which however makes it illegal use. I hope that by autumn and the new business year we will have a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u380	And now there is the question of Mr. Stoynev and Mr. Gokov about the Institute of Rose and Essential-Fresh Cultures. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u381	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! My question is for the Institute of Rose and Essential Oil Cultures in Kazanlak. It began in 1907, when the then Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture separated 26 decares from the state orchard in Kazanlak. From a small experimental field Institute over the years grew into a leading scientific unit in essential oil production. Although the Institute has undergone a number of transformations, it remains the main centre for research, applied, service and support activities in the field of essential-fat and healing crops in Bulgaria. Now the problems. This government, in the course of its policy of the previous term, purposely destroys the Agricultural Academy, starting first with the budget and funding and then restructuring models that have long since passed away. The Agricultural Academy, according to the Council of Ministers' decree of January, had to have a budget of 25 million. This budget is small, but it still covers salaries, and some of the alimony. Of that 25 million. 15 are their own, which the Academy realized by itself from production. Therefore, the subsidy from the State was reduced to 10 million. of the nearly 20 million that Oresharski's office gave. In practice, however, this has not been implemented because you, Madam Minister, have defended a budget of 21 million. 300 thousand, i.e. it has been reduced by 3.5 £4 million, and this has led to the inability to pay the salaries. The Agricultural Academy and trade unions agreed to limit mass dismissals, as well as mitigate the consequences of being bled out by personnel at the 25 Institutes of the Academy, one of which is the Institute of Rose. However, the Agricultural Academy was forced to make cuts at all levels and instructions were dropped to all directors not to shorten people related to science and applied activity. However, this does not happen for the Institute of Rose in Kazanlak and its existence is threatened. The Institute owns a lot of land ready for exploitation planted with permanent plantations located next to the road that would be bordered by a future tunnel under Shipka. People say in Kazanlak that things on the sale of these lands have been so advanced that businessmen in the industry have already allocated them and discussed how to get the Institute out of the Agricultural Academy to make this happen. My question to you is: what measures will you take with a view to ensuring the normal existence of research, applied, service and auxiliary activities in the field of essential-fat and healing cultures from the Institute of Rose and Essential-Fat Cultures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u382	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u383	Dear Madam President, Mr. Gokov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Perhaps some of the answers I will give you include answers from a previous colleague to whom I was responding. First of all, this Institute, as well as the sector itself, is symbolic for Bulgaria, among other things. Bulgaria is a major producer of rose oil and practically satisfies 40% of global demand. The decision: firstly, the reform of the Agricultural Academy has not been made, I do not know which reform you are talking about and which year. It is not done now or the first term of GERB. I don't know exactly what you meant by that. Yes, we are preparing a Strategy for Reform of the Agricultural Academy, which, I said earlier, we will present the autumn of your plenary session for public discussion, of course, first in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. In this Strategy for the Reform of the Agricultural Academy in no way will the Institute itself be reorganized, which we are talking about in Kazanlak, on the contrary, it will remain an independent unit, given the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture as a whole, namely prioritizing the industries, including essential-fat development cultures, and this prioritization is evident in the measures covered by the Rural Development Programme and the direct payments scheme. In the part of the programme we are talking about agri-environment and climate, and in the part about direct payments we are talking about tied support. In both instruments we have prioritized them, the trend of the last few years has been clear from 2012 the plants with lavender have increased nearly 2 times the ones from which the products are produced. There's a minimum increase in the rose. For the first time since this year we have introduced the scheme for Bulgarian variety plants into the scope of measures. This made the traditional Bulgarian varieties for example the Bulgarian rose, an extremely sought after variety in the creation of plantings for the simple reason that there is a significant support that supports farmers. In this sense, the Institute is a very important unit to implement our global strategic policies and in our concept it is intended to develop independently as part of the innovation unit for the development of this sector within the scope of the Agricultural Academy. In this sense, the Institute is a very important unit to implement our global strategic policies and in our concept it is intended to develop independently as part of the innovation unit for the development of this sector within the scope of the Agricultural Academy. With regard to the budget for this year, Mr. Gokov, he is what Parliament voted for, and we must undoubtedly enter into his framework. There's nothing beyond that we can afford. This is normal budgetary discipline. With regard to layoffs, yes, this is certainly an extremely unpleasant time. But it is clear that the model on which the Academy is currently operating does not meet the needs, including the agricultural sector to a full extent. So we will offer real restructuring autumn and change, including the funding model, which we hope will show results in good governance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in the course of these cuts, we have really tried to preserve scientific potential. There wasn't such a problem here as with the Institute of General Toshevo, but, agree with the State of Photographer, is it not normal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u384	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u385	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, what did I mean? I was referring to the reduced budget and the reduction, your desire for restructuring, perhaps the future strategy. The future strategy that will include this restructuring, I hope, despite your assurances, that the strategy for the Agricultural Academy will include the Institute of Rose.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u387	Because this is a unique institute for Bulgaria and the world at all. Ruining and destroying labor and experience for nearly 110 years would be a crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u388	Of course, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u389	But I want to tell you one more thing. If you now do not help the Institute of Rose in Kazanlak, autumn with your strategy may be too late. Because now they're cutting people short, I say, because of the current budget cuts, they're making it hard to pay the salary. I don't want to tell you what's going on, because I had a meeting with the people who were cut short and waited outside the gate. Our meeting was pretty intense. I have received assurances from the Director, who is currently the Institute, that there will be no turmoil in scientific activity, but I doubt that. Despite your evasive response that there will be a solution for the Institute, I do not know how to distract in the people of Kazanlak the feeling that the Institute of Rose is being destroyed. The reasons for this are the appetizing assets where they are directed, so I will call them, from the private sector. Also, the other doubt that leads in this direction towards the destruction of the Institute of Rose is the competition from other producer countries, which seek to take over those 40% of our market, Turkey, France, China, which are somehow trying through lobbies and other means to wipe out production. I would very much like to reassure the Cauldrons that there is a solution to their question. Otherwise it will be very bad, Madam Minister, for the people in Bulgaria and in Kazanlashko, if the Institute of Rose is closed or in any way its activity is prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u390	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u391	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Gokov! Once again, I assure you that there is no way that the Institute of Rose will be closed, restructuring or flow into another institute for the simple reason that Bulgaria as a country satisfies 40% of the demand for rose oil. We have policies to support the preservation of Bulgarian genetics in varieties. The main pillar in these policies is precisely this Institute. But the fact is that the budget is what it is, and we have no way out of it. It is good autumn to achieve a really good law that will enable the Academy and the institutes to work for the benefit of Bulgarian agriculture, as a really applied science, because for me this is the most important, including with the sector. And with regard to appetites, but because it's really just fairy tales, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u392	That's what they say.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u393	I understand people themselves. Indeed, from the other point of view, one person loses his job, and not one person, but one significant percentage, mass, and it is normal in this direction to have any talk about other measures. The fact is also that not only private business, you will see that laws will be debated here in Parliament, which are with other importers, in which there really is a vision for the Agricultural Academy and where it belongs. I say our vision and this concept will present it as the place of the Institute of Rose in Kazanlak is in the Agricultural Academy as an autonomous unit, as so far, and in a way that would ease funding and motivate project funding, that is, which would lead to the development of science. The fact is, if I go back years, that in this Institute there were many violations, there were many checks and there were also in terms of management. I don't even know, I don't speak specifically because I'm not prepared in advance for names, but it's the fact that there are such problems and you need to find the best possible team to achieve the goals and results that the business involved in this activity is looking for. And he's definitely in growth as a trend in recent years.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u394	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u395	I hope we'll present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u396	Thank you. This was the last, twelfth in a row, question to you. I wish you a good job. We move on to questions to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the use of marijuana and its derivatives for medical purposes. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u397	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Looking at the empty room, I am simply forced to tell you in advance that next week I will submit a proposal, for which I will insist, for a change in the point in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which will state that during the parliamentary control on Friday there will be a quorum. And now the question to Minister Moskov. Minister, in recent years, the subject of the use of marijuana and its derivatives for medical purposes is increasingly up-to-date. According to many experts, marijuana significantly reduces muscle stiffness, pain and cramps in patients with multiple sclerosis. These have shown clinical studies made by scientists at the University of Plymouth. These results also coincide with the data received at the University of California in San Diego, also published in authoritative international editions. Previous studies in patients with multiple sclerosis found that medical marijuana can alleviate not only symptoms, but can also slow the development of diseases. On this occasion, I can tell you that the use of medical marijuana with a prescription is a legal method for treating multiple sclerosis in the US, Canada, Great Britain, New Zealand, Germany and Spain, and 12 countries of the European Union have already legalized medical marijuana by doing so last year in Romania. I would like to point out that last year, in the United States of Illinois, a medical program was launched for patients suffering from over 40 diseases who had access to medical cannabis treatment. I'm just going to mention 5 of the most significant diseases, such as cancer, glaucoma, AIDS, hepatitis C, Alzheimer's disease, muscle dystrophy, malformations, Parkinson's disease, dystrophy. Unfortunately, I have to say, in Bulgaria this topic is taboo. Even colleagues who have been asked to sign such a declaration as MPs or such an open letter have told me that raising such a topic is dangerous for their political rating, as they will be accused of legalising or promoting the use of marijuana. My questions to you, Minister, are as follows: Is it done by you, by your office, an analysis of international research on the appropriateness and necessity of applying marijuana in the treatment of severe diseases? Question two: Are you considering the possibility of allowing the use of marijuana and its derivatives for medical purposes? I very much hope and believe that the answers to my questions will follow something good for the sick, for the patients in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u398	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question of the Member of the National Assembly, in fact there is no other question for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u399	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, the media interest which causes a wide public response on the subject must not be overlooked, of course. There have been many discussions on this subject. When discussing......................................................................................... are mixed with many layers.................................................................................................................................................................. All of these are layers of topics that should not be mixed. It is visible, it is very dimensional and this required discussion at a meeting of the National Council on Drugs, on which I have the honour to be president of an exofficial. On a proposal from the National Center of Drug Addiction, letters were prepared to national consultants, medical specialists and organizations. On the basis of their opinions, a report was submitted by the National Center for Drug Addiction at a meeting of the Narcotics Council. The report cited studies and publications of: National Institute of Dependencies of the United States of America (NIDA), the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the National Focus Centre of Bulgaria. The opinions of the Municipal Drug Councils on the territory of the country are also reflected. The report was published on the website of the National Center for Drug Addiction and you probably know it. The conclusions are that the practice of using medicinal products containing cannabinoids has existed for more than 20 years worldwide, and these medicines have been used in adult patients with certain diseases in cases where their overall somatic condition is not affected by conventional drugs. Medicinal products containing cannabinoids are used as add-on therapy to the underlying therapy for the disease concerned. Medicinal products containing cannabinoids are not used for the treatment of the disease alone. And the adoption of cannabis by smoking marijuana brings more risks than benefits to human health, even in concomitant diseases. Smoking is not established anywhere as a method of medical treatment. Marijuana and its main psychoactive component tetrahydrocannabinol are listed in List I of the Ordinance on the order of classification of plants and substances as narcotics, namely plants and substances prohibited for human and veterinary use. The main demands of non-governmental organisations and patient organisations, and this is contained as an emotion in your question, is the relocation from List I to List II, i.e. high-risk substances that are used in human and veterinary medicine. I should like to inform you that a clinical trial of a UK drug containing cannabisdiol and tetrahydrocannabinol is taking place in Bulgaria to relieve pain in cancer patients. Depending on the results of the clinical trial of the medicinal product and the need for the presence of medicinal products containing tetrahydrocannabinol, the appropriate displacement of tetrahydrocannabinol from List I to List II may be considered. At the last meeting of the National Drug Council, which was on 9 February, it was decided to carry out an analysis of research on the appropriateness and necessity of applying marijuana and its derivatives for medical purposes and regulatory practice and control in other European countries. The Drug Executive Agency is entrusted with carrying out an analysis of regulatory practice and control regarding the application of marijuana for medical purposes in the territory of the European Union. The analysis of research on the appropriateness and necessity of the application of marijuana and its derivatives for medical purposes is entrusted to the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis. After drawing up the analyses, they will be presented at a meeting of the National Board of Narcotics, and it is envisaged to review the topic again and to assess whether the application of marijuana and its derivatives for medical purposes will result in an increase in abuse of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is necessary to consider from a medical point of view at expert level the extent to which the use of marijuana products for medical purposes is justified at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u400	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u401	Mr. Minister, I am partly satisfied with the answer to my question. However, this is news in February to this Council at the Ministry is assigned the task of exploring the pros and cons of using medical marijuana in very severe diseases, but as a doctor you cannot deny that when it comes to terminally ill, dying people use medical marijuana is, if not necessarily, at least recommended, because mass practice is in such cases what I hear from friends and acquaintances, and publications in the press that supply is done on the street by drug dealers associated with mafia groups. On this occasion, let me remind you, and also remind the viewers of the Bulgarian Parliament in these minutes that two years ago in Bulgaria was something very embarrassing. Embarrassingly against the backdrop of the fact, as I said in 12 EU countries, this problem is solved by legalising medical marijuana. Two years ago, a diagnosed multiple sclerosis patient was given to court because it was found that he planted marijuana in several pots after reading in specialized medical journals that cannabis successfully opposed the development of his disease. This case was a precedent for Bulgaria and is extremely important because everyone in Bulgaria should have the opportunity to treat themselves with the most suitable medicines, all the more so that medical marijuana relieves the side effects, as you mentioned, from the chemotherapy of the cancer patients, which is yet another very serious argument for its legalization. And to repeat the diseases that affect cancer, glaucoma, AIDS, hepatitis C, Alzheimer's disease, muscle dystrophy, spinal cord disease, multiple sclerosis, malformations, dystrophy, residual pain in the limbs, Parkinson's disease, do not give God terminally ill. I think it is time for Bulgaria to become part of the civilized world and Europe on this very difficult and indeed, I admit, a very delicate issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u402	Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u403	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Enchev, once again let me tell you, first of all, we, as MP and Minister, must respect the institutions. My opinion, your personal position on this issue could not be a reason for making one decision or another. There is an institution, it in Bulgaria is called the National Drug Council, which can produce the policy in this regard. I told you the steps that based on scientific evidence and research, and not on my and your impressions, close or sympathy for specific people, should be obtained. Once again, the topic health consequences, decriminalization, legalization, medical use are mixed very easily. I will just say that I do not want to express my opinion on this issue, but at a meeting here in Parliament, less than two weeks ago, organised by MPs and related to the Committee on Drugs to Blagoevgrad Municipality, the people said from there: "Every conversation and every raising of the subject on this issue, without there being clear guarantees that the consequences can be controlled for us who work with the children lead to bad consequences. And they quoted a case where at school the teacher tells her children this thing where children, visible and evidently under the influence of marijuana, give arguments similar to those that I or you, for medical reasons, could protect. There, the children replied that marijuana cures multiple sclerosis, and the teacher cannot forbid it. I mean, this conversation is really delicate. I thank you for not sharpening it and politicizing it. I said what measures the state is taking, and they, whatever they are, will be clearly analysed and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u404	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Since the other three questions are postponed to you, I have nothing left but to wish you a pleasant job. We move on to questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The first question to the Minister of Environment and Water is a question from MP Cornelia Ninova, about air pollution in Pirdop and Zlatitsa. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u405	Madam Minister, Mr Minister! In the period 25-30 June 2015 on the territory of Pirdop and Zlatitsa was, what to call it, people popularly called it: the two cities were gassed, the two municipalities. There was air pollution. The area environmental and water inspection reacted, sent a mobile station that was sampling and throwing indicators. I was at the scene because I was a member of the Sofia district and people called me there. I received answers that this mobile station measures indicators and collects information that will be processed later in Plovdiv, in a special laboratory and will later deliver data on what happened, what are the air indicators, probably the reason for this, the source. If you know anything, please submit this data because the people of the two municipalities are waiting for them, as such events do not happen for the first time in this region. The region has repeatedly been gassed without being given a clear and clear answer to what is the source and what are the measures that the government will take so that they do not repeat themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u406	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, on June 22nd in the Regional Environmental Inspection and Waters in Sofia there was a signal for an acute suffocating smell in the area of Sofia. Pirdop in relation to which the Inspection has taken the following actions. On 23 June 2015 by experts of the Regional Inspectorate Sofia, together with representatives of the municipality of Pirdop were carried out inspections of production sites, possible sources of smells, namely: mini thermal power plant, In a mini thermal power plant is found the smell of lit wood locally, in the interior space of the production building. The scope of the production site was carried out at the time of the inspection and no odors were detected during the whole tour. The verification of a regional site for solid municipal waste managed by the municipality of Pirdop has revealed the presence of smells locally on the site of the depot and close to the river Pirdopska in the southern direction. No trace of local combustion processes affecting the characteristic depopulated waste in the landfill area has been detected and there is no trace of local combustion processes. In the light of the circumstances found in the verification carried out by letter of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, the Municipality of Pirdop has been issued provisions concerning: daily control of the depot in order to prevent waste burning, increased control over the generators of obsolete tyres, increased control to prevent unauthorised incineration of waste in the territory of the municipality. The Municipality of Pirdop has declared the implementation of the prescriptions by notifying the Regional Inspection of the actions taken and the control measures envisaged. On June 24, the mobile automatic station, as you mentioned, of the Executive Environment Agency, was stationed in the city. Pyrdop, with measurements taken over a period of 40 hours by indicators: fine particulate matter, nitrogen oxide, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, ozone, carbon monoxide, benzene, toluol, xylene, cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds and meteorological parameters. On June 25, new signals for smells and air pollution were received in the city. Pirdop in connection with which it has been extended for another 24 hours to examine the qualities of the atmospheric air. On 26 June, new on-the-spot checks were carried out by RIEW-Sofia experts. No odour was detected when the sites of the companies were surrounded organoleptically. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that from the analysis of the results of the measurement of the mobile automatic station and the data of the monitoring stations for the period 24-27 June there are no excess indicators that characterize the quality of the air in the city. Pirdop and since you have also mentioned the concern of the people of the region, I hereby inform you that a procedure has been initiated by letter from the Director of the Regional Inspection to the Executive Environment Agency for the provision of equipment and the deployment of a permanent automatic measuring station for the quality of the air in the area of the municipalities of Pirdop and Zlatitsa. We have a positive opinion on this, and as soon as next week, this permanent laboratory will be located, which I hope will help us in our efforts for continuous information to be provided to the residents of the region for the quality of the air.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u408	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Ninova, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u409	Madam Minister, it seems to me that what you are saying is absurd, as it is obvious that there is a problem. And you've admitted it. The suffocating smell, the people's signals, the worries. I wasn't there to believe there wasn't one. I was, and I saw it was hard to breathe. I've seen people who have not only breathing problems, but problems with their eyes and so on. I mean, there's a problem, but I understand from your answer that a source of a problem has not been identified. The station is throwing absolutely normal air readings, which means someone thinks there's a problem, and from here on out, we'll be watching what happens. That's not a satisfactory answer for me. I will continue to meet with the people of the region and we will probably come up with another option for a reaction when the government does not react adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u410	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Minister, the doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Ninova, I cannot agree with your opinion. You yourself commented on the presence of colleagues from the Regional Inspectorate for the Environment and Waters, the commitment and checks that have been carried out. Checks shall be carried out in relation to each alert received. The readings that are reported are related to the quality of the atmospheric air, which is measured on the components, by the elements that I quoted in my response. Again, as you have said, we, in expressing our commitment to the local population and to ensuring that there is full awareness of the condition of air quality, as I said, have taken action to install a permanently active automatic station, which in real time gives information about the state of air. As you and we hold meetings with the citizens and respond to every signal that is received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u412	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on dangerous pollution of drinking water in the village of Damyanovo, municipality of Sevlievo.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u413	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues who have remained in this Chamber! On May 20, the District Station in the town of Plovdiv. Gabrovo sent a letter to the town hall in the village of Damyanovo, Sevlievo municipality, in which residents of the village are notified of samples of drinking water in Damyanovo at Pompena Station 1 and Pompena Station 2. From this very disturbing letter it becomes clear that in Pompena station 1 the nitrate content is 84 mg per litre and in Pompena station 2 the nitrate content is 55 mg per litre and, as is known, the permissible norm for nitrate content in one litre of water is up to 45 mg per litre. On this occasion RZI-Gabrovo recommends to the residents of Damyanovo in this very politely, but, I would say, alarmingly, alarm letter, recommend to them temporarily not to consume water from the plumbing, but to use tap water in the center of the village, which is edible. You understand, this creates extremely serious problems for the village's inhabitants - over 500 people, most of whom are elderly people, have very difficult driving problems, not to mention the young children who are there during summer vacations. On this occasion, I inform you that for years the Cleaning Station in Sevlievo dumps the waste near the reservoir in the village of Damyanovo, which, as experts say, is being sucked into the drinking water, which is unnecessary to say, is more than dangerous to the health of the people in the region. My question to you is: what will your office do to solve this chronic problem for the residents of Damyanovo? It's still about their health and their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u414	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, the answer to your question is in line with the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water. I would like to inform you of the following: about drinking-bit needs village of Damyanovo, municipality of Sevlievo is supplied by underground waters by encapsulating springs located in three groups: The first two groups are located south of the village near the agricultural land and the third in a forested area, north of the village. For the supply and storage of water, the relevant pump stations and pressure tank shall be used. For use of underground water from the water body of Karstov waters in Central Balkan by the director of the Swimming Directorate "Dunavski oblast" are granted permissions of Vik-Byala. Sevlievo. Under the Water Act, the company is responsible for the quality of drinking water provided to the population. According to the river basin management plan and the mid-term review of significant water management problems in the Danube region in 2014, the water body's main risk is diffuse pollution from agricultural activity, as well as concentrated pollution from livestock farms and settlements without purification facilities such as the village of Damyanovo. On 14 July 2015 by experts of the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters The cleaning station in Sevlievo has been in operation since the beginning of 2010. The excess sludge is dehydrated, processed with a coagulant and treated with a filter press. The moisture of the sludge is about 80%. The sludge analyses carried out show that the same can be transmitted for disposal by disposal. The intention of the water water supply is to use the sludge generated and to this end it is transported and temporarily stored on a concrete levelling device located in the land of the village of Damyanovo. The concrete leveller has an area of about 3 decares and a depth of about 2 m. In the view of the area it is found that the location of the leveler does not fall into the water district of the two water sources for drinking water in the village of Damyanovo. The first water source is located about 300 m below the village's farmyard, where there are two farms with large quantities of stored old and fresh manure in and outside the yard. In precipitation, surface waters pass through the manure stored and through drainage pipes reach the captage by contaminating it with nitrates. The mayor of Sevlievo municipality has been given a prescription for immediate measures to clean unregulated manure contamination. At present, the water supply company has taken action to exclude nitrate contaminated waters from the captage of the Czech Republic. The water supply of the village of Damyanovo will be carried out only by the captage. In this regard, by letter dated 6 July 2015, the Water and Water Agency ( water and water) has notified the Regional Food Safety Directorate of the city of Gabrovo of the taking of competence to ensure the storage and recovery of the manure generated from the farms in the farmyard of the village of Damyanovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u416	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Enchev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u417	Very strange, I am very unpleasantly surprised by the fact that you have been given by experts that nitrates are contained in manure. Assuming that nitrates in such a large quantity are contained in manure, we must conclude that our farming is poisonous, but to offer you a solution if we are to be constructive. The decision, according to the citizens of Sevlievo, not only the citizens of Damyanovo, but also the neighboring villages, is one of the ones that needs to be built at Mokra Byala Reservoir near Sevlievo, after which the issue will be resolved not only with the water supply of the town of Sevlievo, but also with the surrounding settlements, including the village of Damyanovo. I hope that you will also take a view on this, as this is not only my opinion, it is not just an opinion, as I said, of the inhabitants of these villages and the town of Sevlievo, but also of many experts from the region. But, again, very strangely, nitrates in such a large amount of manure, someone has to explain it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u418	Thank you. Mrs. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, as I mentioned, the risks associated with the state of the water body are related to diffuse pollution mainly caused by agriculture. For this purpose, control of establishments shall be carried out. Regarding the comment you have made, I certainly agree with you that additional investment is needed in the Sevlievo region. We are aware of the need to provide quality drinking water to the population. You know that the municipality is working on the issue of providing quality drinking water supply and reconstruction of the central plumbing. In addition, the possibility to make use of funds under the Operational Programme of the Environment for regional pre-invested research and subsequently investment in the water sector allows for preliminary preparatory activities to be carried out in the preparation of technical documentation and the funding of such investments for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u420	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. There are no more questions for you than the Members of the National Assembly. Have a good job! We move on to questions to the Minister of Defence Nikolai Nenchev. The first question is from the MP Velizar Enchev about engaging political scientists and journalists from the Ministry of Defence for lectures in the military garrisons in the country. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u421	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, as long as you're here, I think you're not more than four! Mr. Minister, on June 25th of this year the Ministry of Defence announced that by July 10th, a series of meetings will be held in 16 district centers where political scientists will present their views on the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to the official information that can be found on the Ministry's website, these meetings explain the changes, risks and threats in the security environment, as well as the Euro-Atlantic and European belonging of Bulgaria as a guarantor of its security. Speakers have talked about the government's defence policy, the crisis in Ukraine, the hybrid war, the events in Syria and so on. As it has become known, so far such meetings have been organized in Plovdiv, Kazanlak, Stara Zagora, Smolyan, Vratsa, Blagoevgrad, Karlovo, Vidin, Pleven, Sliven, Yambol, Shumen, Varna, Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo. Speakers were, which is particularly interesting, former Foreign Minister Solomon Passy, political analyst Ognian Minchev, analyst Vladimir Chukov, journalists Ivan Bedrov and Kalin Manolov, diplomat Ilian Vassilev. My questions to you are: Would you please explain to the Members of the National Assembly what is the point of such events and what funds are spent to conduct them, including the amount of their lecture fees, or their positions of office, if any? Does it answer the truth that the lecturers in question campaigned to actively engage us in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict and pointed Russia as a major threat to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria? Don't you think that such engaging journalists against payment is an unacceptable and difficult to explain interference by the executive in the work of the media, which in this case becomes an uncritical rout of official information rather than independent and objective sources of information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u422	Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u423	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Ninova, Dear Gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Enchev! First of all, I would like to remind you that the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria do not belong to either the Minister or the Government or the Parliament. They belong to the Republic of Bulgaria and it, as you know, is a democratic country. Such important decisions, such as increasing defence capabilities, should not be imposed, but should be carefully prepared after a long public discussion. The public must be informed about the state of the country's defence capabilities in the badly deteriorated security environment in Southeast Europe. Therefore, on 19 May 2015, the Ministry of Defence launched a public discussion in 16 district centres and cities in the country. The parameters of the defence capabilities and intentions for modernization of the armed forces, as set out in the Program for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020, as well as the changes, risks and threats in the security environment and the challenges of our country's defence policy, as well as the Euro-Atlantic and European values, were discussed. By conducting these discussions, we have given servicemen and ordinary citizens throughout the country the opportunity to express their opinions, to ask their questions and to receive a competent answer. His opinion was also expressed by representatives of various alliances of retired officers and sergeants, civil associations and political parties. I can assure you that this approach met extremely broad support and gave us the opportunity to assess how much the policy of the Ministry of Defence meets the needs of the Bulgarian Army and how it is adopted in society. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, representatives of the scientific circles, political scientists and public figures took part in the meetings. As for the fees of external lecturers, I inform you that their size is BGN 100. an hour. Attracted political analysts and public figures in the campaign are prominent researchers, security professionals familiar with the policy followed by the Ministry and participated in their capacity as independent experts. I would like to emphasise that the public discussions were held in full transparency and with open doors. They were attended by representatives of various local and regional media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u424	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Enchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u425	Mr. Minister, I thank you for the information given about the fees of these political and sociologists attracted to collaborators and sociologists, but I will tell you that essentially with similar shares, in my humble opinion, the status of political officers in the Bulgarian People's Army was returned before 10 November 1989. At least then we had over 200 thousand army, Air Force, Navy, and now we all know what the composition and quantity of the Bulgarian Army and its armaments are. It seems to me that when money is short for the repair of MiG 29 fighters and incredible maneuvers are being carried out, figuratively speaking, to provide spare parts and a repair base to pay for such actions is quite strange and not particularly justified. What I think is more worrying is not this, but the fact that at these lectures and lectures was actually agitating against a great power such as Russia and was pointed as a major threat to Bulgaria, all the more so, that on this platform exactly two weeks ago Prime Minister Borisov during the blitz control of my question, on this very topic about these lecturer participations in the Armed Forces said that his personal opinion is that Russia is not an opponent and cannot be one, and your lecturers spoke precisely in this direction that the main opponent of Bulgaria is Russia. And now an interesting financial question is why I will not mention her name, of course, in order not to advertise the agency, but this agency always gives the highest results for the GERB Party, and it also gave a rating to the ministers in the Borisov cabinet on June 18, 2015 in which you are not bad. I ask the following question: can you engage the owners of sociological agencies carrying out objective, I hope objective sociological research on the rating of parties, government and individual ministers, then you pay them for the activity or assistance of the Ministry of Defence of 100 BGN. an hour? It seems to me that this is not easy to protect, but difficult to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u426	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u427	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Enchev, we are obviously confessing very different value systems. That's obvious. I would like to assure you that I am a great supporter of the democratic approach and will continue to follow it. I am a supporter of any decision, program or thesis being subjected to a broad discussion in order to get from people a more real and concrete assessment of what exactly their views are. This proved extremely useful after this series of seminars and discussions that we had. At the discussions there was an opportunity to ask any questions. There was an opportunity for all citizens, including media, to ask their questions and defend their own. I think we have developed an extremely democratic approach, which is essential for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u428	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a procedure to express my gratitude to you, Mr. Chairman, to my fellow MPs from the Patriotic Front Boris Yachev and Emil Dimitrov, to my colleague from the Reformation Block Petar Slavov, to my colleague Georgi Kadiev, to Mr. Minister, to the staff of the stenographers, to the fellow operators, so that stoically in front of this empty room continue to do their work! Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u430	There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u431	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u432	Here you are, Mr. Kadiev, for a question to Minister Nenchev. Question by Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev and Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev about renting out a military unit on the territory of the municipality of Ihtiman, village of Kostadinkino.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u433	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, on my behalf and on behalf of colleague Kiril Dobrev I ask the following question to you: we have received information that on the territory of the municipality of Ihtiman to the village of Kostadinkino the Ministry of Defence has rented out part of a military unit. My question is: Is it true that the unit is dedicated to the company "Algans" Ltd. and will be used for the utilization of ammunition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u434	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Minister Nenchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u435	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, it is not true that this property is not leased, it is sold. By order of the Ministry of Forests and Forest Industry and a decision of the Council of Ministers in the 1970s the Ministry of Defence was granted property to secure the needs of the Bulgarian Army. After dropping the need for it, the same is divided into two independent properties. In one are stored movable items and, private government property of the Ministry of Defence, which are subject to authorising acts. The second property was included in the schedule for the sale of surplus properties for the Ministry in 2014. The same year a procedure for its sale took place. By my order of 8 January 2015, the buyer, the price and the terms of the payment were determined. On 23 February 2015 a contract was signed for the purchase and sale of the property with the company. The property was transferred to the buyer on 17 March 2015. It is clear from the foregoing that the property is not a state property in the management of the Ministry of Defence, which is why we have no reason to be concerned with the activities currently taking place in it by the owner of the property. In the event of ammunition utilisation activities, control should be carried out by the competent authorities of the Ministry of Interior under the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u436	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u437	Dear Minister, I do not dispute that this property is likely to have dropped out of the need of the Ministry of Defense. I'm not questioning your right to sell it and get the corresponding revenue for the defense. However, I dispute that no one knows what is happening there. This property is only 3 km away from the glass of the dam Iskar. This property, when under the authority of the Ministry of Defense, was never held in it incendiary materials and bombs, but always only weapons that cannot explode for one single reason that this could affect the cup of the dam. This property is only a few kilometers from a uranium waste storage facility. A possible accident in it may have a consequence which, by carrying on from air pollution, can also contaminate the water from which the whole of Sofia drinks. This isn't just a warehouse we sell, we take some money and no one pays attention to what happens from there. Close to it is mine "Chukurovo". If you remember, a few years ago she was assigned to accept the city trash when there was nowhere to be accepted. Then people went up and made a living chain to stop the trucks. Can you imagine what they'd do now if there really was an utilization?! Because it's much more dangerous than accepting garbage. Doi and the mine never had thunder. The coal was mined there in a way that would in no way endanger the nearby dam of Iskar. So I would like to draw your attention to this is not a question, so let's just pull over the number. Let's see where the truth is. Let's see if there will be an utilization, so that appropriate measures can be taken before something happens. I'm not even talking about the company, which we already have enough bad experience with, but whichever other firm was, in our opinion, in this place, where there was never an incendiary material, precisely because of the danger of something happening, to take out an utilization is absurd! We, with all our influence, with all we can do, will support the people who will eventually protest there, will support the unraveling of the whole issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u438	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u439	Dear Mr. Kadiev, before any property is sold, a conciliation procedure is carried out. We demand and exercise strict control of each property and get permission to do so. I understand your concern and I share it, but this property is no longer at the disposal of the Ministry of Defense, which makes me think, of course, I will cooperate, I will talk to the Home Secretary and ask for a detailed inspection to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u440	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Adherence to the questions to another minister, to whom we will also have to thank afterwards the Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. First question by the MPs Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov concerning the policy of the Ministry of Finance regarding the determination of the legal interest, the removal of its current statement character and the possibility of differentiation of the amount of the legal interest for the delay of individuals and traders. Here you go, Professor. Lilkov, develop the questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u441	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the question we brought with colleagues Slavov and Dimitrov concerns, briefly speaking, the legal interest for late payments between individuals and traders in Bulgaria. In a nutshell. In Bulgaria, interest for late payments is set at the base rate plus 10 percentage points, with no differentiation for late payments between traders and between individuals. A European Union Directive 2011/700 sets the minimum interest rate for late payments between traders of 8 percentage points, which does not apply to natural persons. Currently, there are only two countries in the European Union which have a rate of interest for late payments between traders at the rate of the basic interest rate plus 10 percentage points and one of these countries is Bulgaria. At the same time, in Europe, in European countries for late payments between natural persons, significantly lower interest rates for late payments have been accepted, for example, in Austria, this amount is 4 percentage points plus ALP, in Germany 5 percentage points plus the base rate. Our question with colleagues Slavov and Dimitrov comes down to the following: do you foresee a reduction in interest for late payments between individuals and traders of 10 percentage points down and compliance with European practice? Do you foresee a differentiation of this interest on the one hand for individuals and on the other hand for traders? We mean that, in many cases, this interest is of a severe sensibility, especially when it comes to late payments related to watching cases that sometimes last two or three years. Then the interest paid both individuals and traders very often surpassed the principal. That's our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u442	Thank you, dear Professor. Lilkov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u443	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Art. 1. 2 Paragraph 6 of the Directive sets the minimum permissible amount of legal interest, which is the basic interest rate of the Member State concerned plus at least 8 percentage points, which is mandatory for all Member States. You rightly commented that in Bulgaria in accordance with the directive the fixed interest rate for delay is the main interest rate plus 10 points. The long-term practice in Bulgaria is to determine the amount of overdue debts in this way, whether the debtor is a natural person or a trader. When we quote different examples, whether they are European or other examples of world practice, we must also take into account the different traditions and intercultural features seen in individual countries. Bulgaria is the state with one of the highest shares of a gray economy and in this sense the Sanctuary function, which the increased interest rate for fun brings, is not necessarily a bad economic manifestation. In this sense, we have not considered and have not thought about differentiation or reducing this interest rate. In fact, there has been a step towards reducing this interest rate since the beginning of 2013, when with changes in legislation, the interest for late payment of compulsory social contributions has been reduced by the base rate plus 20 percentage points at the base rate plus 10 percentage points, such as the total interest rate for late payments. I am prepared to listen to your arguments, but I do not think that civil turnover and turnover related to payment of public liabilities should be different as treatment. Similarly, I do not think that treatment should be different between legal and natural persons in the settlement of their obligations, all the more so that, in the very preamble of the directive and its role, it is definitely not to allow economic incentives. On the contrary, to punish the admission of overdue liabilities between the individual entities, they were subject to the rule of law between the State and the taxable persons, either by virtue of contractual relations. In this sense, my answer to you is: we have not considered at this stage and we do not believe that such differentiation is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u444	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions within two minutes Mr. Petar Slavov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the first supplementary question to begin with after you said that you had not considered differentiation would be: would you consider such differentiation? I'll give you the following argument for this. First of all, we have ordered a survey among the other Member States of the European Union, how the issue of legal interest is resolved there. Very interesting information has come to our attention that a number of countries differentiate between traders and individuals. That is, whereas traders are indeed eligible for a higher amount of the legal interest charged, the amount, for example, in Germany, is 5%. A number of other countries are also below the 8% that have been mentioned and which, by the way, within the meaning of the directive concern traders, that is to say, at least in the way that we interpret with colleagues, should not go below the 8% rate of legal interest. The reason here is very simple. The legal interest in the way in which, unfortunately, it operates in Bulgaria, is largely of a sacred nature. As at the moment, as you are well aware, interest rates on international markets are extremely low and the 10% allowance practically exceeds them several times and increases the amount completely unjustified. Therefore, there is talk of a banning nature of legal interest rather than, in fact, the normal nature that it should have in terms of overcoming the effects of inflation or other such consequences. This was my first supplementary question for a possible discussion of differentiation. My second question concerns traditions and how did it even come to this size in Bulgaria? How would you possibly determine a more appropriate amount of this allowance? When, in 1951, it was actually first signed in the Order of the Council of Ministers, the amount of legal interest, it was an allowance of 6% plus the base rate. That is, where inflation was considered negligible in those years and the allowance was much lower. It has reached 10% in the years of hyperinflation when the management of BSP came and then it was really necessary obviously a much higher legal interest to be able to compensate for this hyperinflation. Now that the currency board has been operating for years, inflation is low enough per year, it is quite resonant for me to consider reducing this flat-rate allowance, as mentioned by interest rates, the variable, in the way of forming this legal interest rate, taking interest rates on international markets, is also extremely low and is within one or two per cent, which is times less than the flat-rate. These are my supplementary two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u446	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u447	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, of course we could think about any parametric changes which have as their ultimate aim an improvement of the economic environment and attitude both in civil and in business turnover. If your proposal is intended to reduce the burden on outstanding debtors, it should be very well balanced to where and to what purposes it is subject, because the undoubtedly increased interest is intended to force or remove incentives, to stay in fun with regard to one of your obligations. This is also settled in the Law on Obligations and Contracts, and so is the Law on Interests on State Claims. The name, which I am currently quoting, is not precise. If your goal is to bring it to lower levels that will somehow reduce the burden, then we must answer the question whether this way we will not go to another extreme, create artificial incentives to increase obligations between people or increase obligations between businesses? Here, even to put aside the state which has enforcement mechanisms against incorrect public debts, we must keep a very clear account that, for one reason or another, the administration of justice is relatively delayed and the speed at which citizens can settle disputes with each other on a judicial basis requires a lot of time, which is not in the argument of reducing pressure through such sanctioning measures for voluntary settlement under the economic coercion of increasing obligations. However, if your goal is to reduce this interest, we could be involved in such a debate. It could also be thought of as legislative decisions in this direction, as we distinguish turnover outside the obligations to the fissure and that relating to obligations between legal persons or individuals. But I say again, this debate must be held together with the debate on inter-company debt and the huge amount of accumulated liabilities within the entire civil turnover and in the context of the possibility of a voluntary principle and without the involvement of the judicial system to resolve private disputes in a fair manner, and quickly so as not to harm the property interests of the economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u448	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, to express your attitude, Professor. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Goranov, we understand all the complexity of the matter and the problem and we are ready to organise such a discussion. Of course, we rely on your help and our fellow Members to organise a discussion in which to really look at all aspects of the problem. We firmly believe that differentiation of interest for late payments between individuals and traders should be made, as this is European practice. Moreover, we believe that the amount of the allowance, which in Bulgaria is ten percentage points above the basic interest rate, should in some way be taken into account by the interest rates themselves, which are currently active in the country. Because, as colleague Slavov said, the ten percentage points were adopted 1994 as an allowance when interest rates were double digits. Now things have changed significantly in recent years, so we have to think in this direction too. We are pleased that you express your willingness to reason on this issue. It is complicated and I would like to thank those students who have done a truly qualitative and thorough legislative study from the National Assembly. We'll give you a copy of it and we can start a conversation. I hope it'll be in everyone's best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u450	Thank you, dear Professor. Lilkov. The next question is from the national representative Rumen Hristov and the MP Martin Dimitrov on introducing a requirement by Decree No H-18 of the Ministry of Finance of measuring instruments for farmers. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u451	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You know, Mr. Goranov, that I am one of the strongest supporters of the installation of measuring instruments on all producers of excise goods in order to improve control and collect more revenue in the budget. You know that, including on my initiative, my colleagues and colleagues from GERB party, were restored these appliances, which in "Lukoil" did not work and were suspended during the term of office of Oresharski. However, this Regulation No H-18 now offers not producers but consumers to install measuring instruments. It's about farmers. The requirement is that if you have a container with a capacity of over 1000 litres and you consume over 2,000 litres per year, you must meet all the requirements, including buying a level-based device that is linked to an online connection with the relevant control administration. What worries us is, Mr. Minister, that the expenditure that the farmer has to pay may be greater than the budget effect. So imagine a small farmer. The farmers themselves claim that this cost could reach up to 20,000. lv. Imagine a farmer who, I don't know, a small farmer, I'm not talking about the big ones who have to pay $20,000. lv. as the budget effect will be much smaller. In other words, there is no point in burdening people with greater costs than the effect of the measure. For this reason, my question to you is as follows: is it not more right to set higher thresholds, to have level gauge devices, but to refer to larger farmers, who have ten and over ten tonnes of annual consumption, which process, for example, over 1000, over 2000 acres, and not to make the small farmer comply with such requirements? Because, first of all, we will not get the effect; secondly, for July 20, as far as I am concerned, they will protest. Why do we have to take these people out to protest? That is, to have control, but to be smart and to be so positioned that it affects large producers, where the budget effect will be significant. And if, once we enter for the big producers, we see, hopefully, a significant effect, and you see, give us examples that there are smaller ones who break the law, then we can think about expanding. My recommendation to you is: first to position this control so that there is no great public tension, to cover large manufacturers, large tanks, and then if we see that the problem continues not to be resolved, to consider further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u452	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u453	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, in the towers of the Assembly I was able to see the Lord Hristov. We also exchanged ideas with him to have an in-depth discussion at the Ministry of Finance, which I have in fact been leading with farmers for six months. You know that changes to the Value Added Tax Act at the end of 2014 provide for a mechanism to control those fuel users using excise goods to charge vehicles, machines, equipment and other equipment for their own use. T What you have not fully developed in your question is that, in fact, these extreme control measures that have been proposed, given the extreme, I mean that they are linked, on the one hand, to certain investments that do not in any case reach the amounts that comment on the fuel users affected by the control measures. What you didn't quote, and I'm actually sure you know it, and it's important in this debate, is that we're only talking about stationary pots. We're not talking about tanks here, we're not talking about moving objects that can be used to store and supply fuel. Here we are talking about the manifestation, especially in southern Bulgaria, of the so-called office filling stations, which have remained in the past from agricultural yards, due to agricultural reform, which especially for small producers is illogical to exist. What do you want with a fixed gas station or a fixed dug-in appliance fitted with a suitable technical device to take out of that fuel tank and dump it into other appliances or supply your vehicles with fuel if you grow 100 or 500 acres, provided it's clear that you have extremely limited fuel consumption? I'm ready for further analysis and debate. Again, we've been bringing him in for months. What you are quoting in your question are probably concerns shared by farmers. I assure you that neither the price for this investment that they are quoting is, nor is the problem as deep as it is presented. Conversely, if it turns out that there are actually eight thousand government gas stations, as you quote in your question, is this not a very serious problem and potential pressure on creating a very serious traffic signal for the distribution of illegal fuels without paid excise duty, or in a good case, if they are paid with excise duty, without paid value tax. That's why I'm ready to continue this debate. It is certainly not good to create tension, but I think it is unnecessary to dramatize the subject and I expect the analysis of the grain-producing colleagues, how difficult it is if they order fuel from any importer or fuel producer for them it will be a problem to supply them, however much they claim, in tanks, which are not stationary and dug into the ground for which such control measures are not required.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u454	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u455	Mr. Minister, if this is about the former government gas stations, give me even one example of one whose tank capacity is up to 1000 l, as they recorded here. If your goal is to cover these particular government gas stations, then you must raise the criteria, as I recommended. There is hardly one whose capacity of the tanks is 1000 l. If this is an ex-government gas station, they have more capacity. Look, I'm worried about the following questions that will be asked to you and the ruling majority. For example, a farmer could ask: why are there no such appliances installed at....Bulgartabac....still, or the companies that produce alcohol, but want to install such appliances not on producers, but on consumers of goods? The second question that can be asked you is as follows: why do you not control production and consumption? The goal in most countries is, if there are any abuses, to catch them in production, and much more difficult to do with consumption. Because, look, if there's no smuggling fuel, there's no way you can get it to do some kind of trade with them afterwards. Once again, Mr. Minister, the fine moment here is this: of course there must be control. Of course, I have always supported and will support any control measures, but it is a very delicate issue when we want to go to the extremely small farmer and make him make expenses. This is a very delicate matter and people with good reason are dissatisfied. Because again, I'm telling you, over 1,000 liters of gas tank capacity does not cover just government gas stations. It turns out that, for example, there are some inherited appliances and some acquired tank, yes, for example, it is dug in, but in order to meet the requirements, there must be a new column, a new level meter, new data transfer devices. I would ask you to do this: so that we do not receive only information from farmers, would you send us to Parliament a summary of the irregularities caught.. sale of illegal fuel, unpaid VAT, unpaid excise duty, to get an idea of the size of the problem and see. Again, isn't it more logical to record a higher threshold so that we are convinced that we will not control, I say directly, Grandpa Gausho in a village that processes several hundred acres, his profit is proportionate to the cost we want to make him do, and we actually tax large farmers? This difference is very important. Because if Grandpa Gausho decides that he is the one we want to benefit from, that the law is written for him, for good reason people will protest, Mr. Minister, I would say, a tsar will protest. This is something that can be avoided if we show them justice from now on. Let's show them, here we have such irregularities, examples of one, two, three, ten and think about higher thresholds from now on. Yes, it is in the VAT Act, but with this regulation you specify the thresholds. I think they should be taller. Exactly, if they cover exactly those government gas stations that you are talking about, the threshold could be 5000 litres of tank capacity and, for example, 10,000 litres of annual consumption. Thus, people themselves will understand that the measure is not for grandfather Gosho in the village, but for larger farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u456	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Minister Goranov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u457	Again, Mr. Dimitrov. Grandpa Gausho, if he is looking at 100 acres, in agricultural norms 7.2 l per decare are 720 l, and it is unlikely that Grandpa Gausho should carry out his fuel supply with a stationary dug-out vessel and with the corresponding pump, which in sales is called a petrol-pond or at all a column to remove the fuel from the dug-out vessel. I don't think that's the best way to supply Grandpa Gausho with fuel. But it is not strongly affected by these control measures, as we are really talking here about industrial fuel supply and it is at stationary formed installations. We are not talking here about tanks which can be dozens of tonnes which can be mobile, which can buy fuel and which can be taken to the respective machines located in the field and engaged in active agricultural activity in the relevant period. We are talking here about the thousands of examples that I can show you as well as photo material, and as other examples relating to a violation not only of tax legislation, but also of all measures under the Law on Construction of the Area and Measures relating to the Regulations of the Fire Stations, if you will, and to environmental measures that require special procedures for storing such fuel and their impact on the environment, with which you will understand that, yes, we must have a very careful attitude not to burden farmers and small businesses with certain control measures at all, but we must not forget that in the end these control measures that are being imposed are aimed precisely at large producers who want to create their own holding for the management of liquid fuels. They cannot in any case be measured in thousands of litres, as I say again, there are far more elegant ways of organizing this process without having to maintain in the business yards dug-in appliances with the relevant pumps to take out the fuel, as this gives potential opportunity and this is observed throughout southern Bulgaria, and not only in southern Bulgaria, for the use of unpaid VAT fuels if the excise duty is paid in good case. Control must, of course, be not only on producers of fuels, but also on importers, because, again, if the existing system of organisation of the movement of goods under suspension of excise duty is good enough to be able to ensure to a high extent that excise duty is paid, the big problem that we are trying to solve is not accidentally linked to the Law on Value Added Tax, is that after the release of goods with paid excise duty for final consumption in many places and very often the VAT chain is cut off and the payment of value added tax for these fuels is avoided. The topic will, of course, not end here, but the problem is not with the dimensions with which it is presented to you, as I say again, this activity of farmers does not necessarily have to be carried out with stationary, ground-drenched appliances and their associated fuel use facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u458	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on the amount of BNB's contribution to the state budget for 2013, 2014 and the amount and allocation of expenditure for certain activities. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Minister, for including this issue in today's parliamentary control. It was originally scheduled for next week. I think you see the interest yourself. A lot of colleagues have joined in the last few minutes in the Chamber. I see colleagues from the Patriotic Front and from the Reformation Bloc who want to find out at the end of the day how much money Iskrov received. That's the question that's exciting society in the last week, and it's like more time. Dear Minister, the amount for the annual maintenance of BNB and the cost allocation, including salaries and maintenance of employees and management, for the maintenance of the building fund and other highly interested society. It is impressive that these amounts increase annually by millions of levs. For example, in 2013, the maintenance was 79 million. BGN, in 2014 nearly 86 million. BGN and the forecast for 2015 is already over 93 million. lv. In accordance with art. 8 of the BNB Act the positive difference of BNB's revenues over expenditure is imported into the state budget. The latter is related to providing appropriate accountability to the Ministry of Finance, and it is also obvious the importance of effective management of the Central Bank's expenditure, with a view to making greater revenue in the state budget, especially in times of deficit. During the debate on the selection of a new Governor of BNB similar questions were asked by MPs to the candidates. As a result, most of them declared readiness for openness and transparency on the subject, especially with regard to the remuneration of the leading positions in BNB, including the members of the Governing Council. In an analysis of the BNB budget, it is noticed that the staff costs are more than 23 million. lv. Annually. In the light of the above, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: what is the amount of the contribution to the state budget of BNB for 2013-2014? What is the allocation of staff costs on the following items: wage costs for employees and management staff, and in particular the manager and management board? I would also add if you have any information on how these salaries were determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u460	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u461	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dimitrov! I wonder how to start the answer to that question. Two numbers I can quote from you, they're written in the State Budget Act, and it's a very easy answer. Anything after that, I'll continue it as a comment. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments Eight hundred and £838. £11. is the contribution of BNB. For 2014 62 million. 299 thousand. BGN 410, 97 The Bulgarian National Bank is hardly a secret to you, subject only to the National Assembly. She's independent of executive power. This requires the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, so does the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The fact that the governors of the bank have declared a readiness for transparency will make your work easier when you motivate an amendment to the BNB Act, which provides such a thing. You can also introduce a special requirement for the accounts presented by the Bulgarian National Bank to the National Assembly to disclose this information. I have never known the exact amount of the remuneration of the members of the Board of the Bulgarian National Bank, but I am sure that if we legislatively decide this to be transparent, the debate will remain as unhealthy as it is at the moment. How much do you think the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank should receive? Of course, I don't expect a direct answer right away. I can assure you one thing: the number mentioned, Mr. Enchev, is far from the truth. Change the law or call the management of the Bulgarian National Bank and ask them to disclose this information. The executive power does not have it, and we, by implementing a Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and by guaranteeing the independence of the Central Bank, have never asked this question. Naturally, for us, the management of the Central Bank and the way in which its budget is being spent, it is extremely important in the context that the excess of revenue over expenditure falls into the state budget and we would be happy to have the contribution from the work of the Central Bank to be more and more, to form a better basis for the government's work through the budget. But please don't turn this debate into an additional foundation to undermine the prestige of the Central Bank. We have made every effort to try to restart this institution as a pillar of the stability of our banking system. If you wish, change the law, oblige them to provide this information, assign you the salary of the Central Bank and its leaders and let this debate be closed in a civilised manner without the expectation that the executive influences the remuneration of the independent Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u462	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u463	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You certainly seem convinced that you don't have that information. Unfortunately, however, there is no way to ask as MPs the Governor of BNB because, you know, he is not subject to parliamentary control. That's why we're asking you and, as I quoted you, art. 8 of the BNB Act, we believe that it is right and perhaps they did not really respect it from the previous BNB management, but after submitting information about the contribution to the state budget and providing information on the revenue and expenditure it makes, it is logical to have a breakdown there and to see that the costs are really not just costs, as I quoted, from 70. 80 and more million per year, and to see exactly where that money went, even more so, that, as well as from their own budgets, more than 20 million are being spent on salaries. I mean, obviously it's a pretty serious feather. Even in the context of the previous question, what you commented with Mr. Dimitrov, these are sums which I am convinced that if such millions enter the state budget, it will only be useful. So in this sense, I cannot quite agree with what you said, or would I rather ask you to specify exactly what that must mean, that it is far from the truth, the amount that has been strained here, far from the truth up, down, and does that mean that you still have any idea what this salary is, in order to be able to say that this amount is far from the truth? But if you consider it necessary, we would love to hear it. I think society would be happy to hear it, at least some reasonable assumption of what money we're talking about and these colossal amounts are true. As far as the legislative initiative is concerned, we have already taken it with colleagues from the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front, and very soon we will probably submit a similar proposal, because for us at least the salary of the Governor of BNB does not seem justified to be higher than the salary of the Prime Minister of the Republic or the President or the President of the National Assembly. Their work is no less responsible. At the same time, the manager of BNB should receive or rather have received in times more than these three senior public positions, which I have listed, at least seems unjustified, especially in the context of the bankruptcy of Corporate Commercial Bank. That is why I really think that this issue is of great interest to society and that is why I am putting it to you. We will continue to seek the truth and hope to rely on your help as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u464	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Minister Goranov, will you take advantage of your right to dodge?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u465	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-17.u466	Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next meeting is on Tuesday, 21 July 2015, at 11:00. [[(Ringing. (Applause from PF.)]] I join the thanks of my colleague Dimitar Bajraktarov to all participants today in the parliamentary control, from the Council of Ministers, the MPs colleagues, from the administration, the operators, all the teams that reflected today's work. Have a nice Saturday and Sunday.
