ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, according to the weekly programme we have adopted on Wednesday, today's Friday is dedicated entirely to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period 12-15 January 2015 as follows: A question was received from the National Representative Boyka Grozeva Marinska to Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, on the financing of higher education in the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 January 2015. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Antoni Trenchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Interior Veselin Vuchkov on a question from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Kornelia Marinova and Krasimira Anastasova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Krasimira Anastasova and Plamen Manushev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Claudia Gancheva; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a request from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to ask the MPs Willi Lilkov and Vladimir Toshev; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the MPs Hristo Gazhev, Desislava Atanasova and Plamen Manushev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ayhan Etem; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; He also received a written reply from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova also to his question. Today's parliamentary control will start with responses from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev Prime Minister Borisov will also participate in the control. He has been asked by the MP Christian Vigenin about the government's policy regarding the Republic of Macedonia. The Prime Minister has an appointment right now. Once he's finished with him, he'll be in the National Assembly to answer Mr. Vigenin's question. The word has Mrs. Miglena Alexandrova to ask her question to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev about the amount of European agricultural subsidies in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The fact is that after the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union, Bulgarian farmers receive in times lower subsidies than their European colleagues. This fact in itself puts our home producers in an uncompetitive position on the common European market. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what measures the government will take in order to align the levels of agricultural subsidies in our country with those in the other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! On the occasion of the European rules and membership of Bulgaria in the European Union, as you well know, there are many myths and legends. I will not comment on them because of the limited time, starting with the heavy restrictions on the production and consumption of tummy soup, go through the shape and color of cucumbers and so on. However, the facts are important. In response to your question, namely by relying on the facts, I will leave you with a schedule showing the pace, the amount of support for the different Member States. [[Shows the graph.]] The data presented clearly shows that the average amount of direct payment for Bulgaria is very close to 90% of the average payment for the European Union. Nine countries are lower than payment in Bulgaria: Great Britain, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Croatia, Romania, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia. The chart shows that there is a significant difference in Bulgaria's support with only two countries - Malta and the Netherlands. The reason for this is clear. I mean the volume of land available in one country and the other. In addition, I would like to inform you that, following the reform of the common agricultural policy carried out within the European Union and specifically for the new programming period 2014-2020, Bulgaria will receive for direct payments 7 billion. EUR, which is almost 2 billion more than the old programming period. Especially higher subsidies will receive livestock farmers, cobblers and vegetable producers. In the previous programming period, farmers from these sectors received 3.5% of total funding, and in the current programming period funding for them will reach 13%, which I think is good news, given the potential of these sectors to generate higher added value, as well as to generate more employment. Of course, it is appropriate to specify that there is a financial model followed by Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, with the amount of total funding increasing each year, according to the agreed growth rate, which is the same for all new Member States, starting from 25% of the amount of direct payments in the first year, reaching 70% in the seventh year of implementation and it will reach 100% in 2016. That is, the chart I present here is not the ceiling. It is expected, including next year, to increase funding by the annual growth rate you can meet by 2013 is presented on this chart, which I will leave at your disposal. Another important detail. Besides the most important resource to support Bulgarian agriculture, direct payments schemes are characterized by an extremely high rate of absorption of funds, which in 2013 is over 99% of the total amount. Moreover, the amount declared under this scheme increased every year, starting in 2007 at around 3.3 million. hectares reaching 3.7 million hectares in 2013. That is, as a result of the direct payments scheme, we have an increase in the volume of arable land, which I also think is a positive result. Thank you. I'm leaving the graphics I mentioned at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, everything you say sounds very good. The question is from these figures that you set out here, and from those funds that you think are given to the Bulgarian producers, how much are they being used and how? And if the picture really was as pink as it is in your tables, there wouldn't be these protests of the manufacturers who have them, and they wouldn't lose it, because it's a fact, you know it. There are always protests. Over the years, we've witnessed this. It's about how they're digested. Yeah, that on the chart looks pretty good. As you say it also sounds good, but if this is not enough for the Bulgarian producer in the end you, as Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, perhaps you should insist to the European Union for more for the Bulgarian producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u8	Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, the numbers are what they are. They reflect the facts and no one has tried to color them either in white or in black or pink. Another point is that the way of assistance and the effect of support is not only in the amount of payments. They are, of course, an extremely important detail. It is appropriate to note that Bulgarian farmers, unlike their colleagues from the old Member States, have a chance to benefit from such support only in the last seven years. They are in a disadvantage to producers from other Member States who have had the opportunity to benefit from similar aid in the order of decades. They have had the opportunity to use the means of mechanization, for know-how, which has allowed the quality, the intensity of their production to be much more competitive. That, of course, takes time. There's something else. I am extremely happy that Bulgaria is taking the chance that the new regulations are proposing and has adopted part of the reforms in the common agricultural policy. One of the most important details is the introduction of the so-called triggers. In other words, intensive support for the first 300 acres of the farm and then reduction of support to avoid the defect where large owners or tenants collect most of the money and there is not enough money for small farmers. This change is a fact and I believe it will have an effect on Bulgarian agriculture. I have also commented on livestock and forestry, but we still have support for vulnerable sectors in order to generate greater added value. Reaching more farmers through simplification of rights and procedures in particular. Although the absorption rate is high at 99%, why shouldn't the process itself imply much less administrative effort? And one more detail: the competitiveness of Bulgarian agriculture is not formed only by the volume of payments. There's a lot of problems there. Some of them were also commented this week on the coma, the volume of the areas that are being processed, irrigation, an extremely serious problem. And an even more serious problem is the tendency of Bulgarian farmers to associate. If they want to form good prices on the market, they have to work with much larger production volumes, which is very difficult for small producers. Therefore, in my opinion, one of the priorities in agriculture is the state to create such incentives in order to talk about bringing together small producers, especially those of fruit and vegetables, which will allow them to realise better prices on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u9	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your duplicate and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the next question, which is asked by MP Christian Vigenin to Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, and he is about negotiations on the Transatlantic trade and investment partnership. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lukarski, in July The negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership between the European Union and the United States started in 2013. The stated objectives of the Agreement are to increase trade and investment between the European Union and the United States, create new economic opportunities for job creation and growth by increasing access to markets and greater regulatory compatibility. The mandate for negotiations on the Agreement was not made public and only strong public pressure led to its declassified by the European Commission and the publication of the negotiating directives. The information currently available has sparked sharp reactions and sound concern that it can lead to a reduction in labour and environmental standards, an increase in unemployment, an increase in the influence of corporations to the detriment of democratically elected governments, to deprive countries of the opportunity to conduct their own social and environmental policy. By the way, these concerns are on both sides of the ocean. Hundreds of thousands of European citizens in over 400 cities of the European Union, including Bulgaria, have already expressed this concern in protest actions and demonstrations. In the meantime, you have repeatedly declared yourself uncritically in favour of this Agreement, but I would still like to ask, in your capacity as Minister of Justice: How will the negotiation process of the Agreement in Bulgaria be monitored and coordinated? How will effective protection of the interests of Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens be ensured during the negotiations? Secondly, are there any issues at the current stage of the negotiations, as they continue, which cause reasonable concerns and how are they formulated and presented to the chief negotiator by the European Union? What measures will you take yourself to ensure full transparency of the negotiation process by the European Commission, as well as the publicity of government-backed positions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, as a member of the European Union, our country has been equally involved in identifying the interests and formulating the position of the European Union from the very beginning of the negotiations, taking into account the difficulties involved in negotiating such a large-scale agreement. National interests in the negotiations shall be formulated on the basis of expert analyses and consultations with the business circles and institutions concerned. They will continue to be an important tool for the Ministry of Economy in identifying priorities, problems and sensitive areas and entering the negotiations into a larger specific. An opportunity to present the interests of stakeholders shall provide the meetings and consultations organised by the European Commission. Last year, the Ministry distributed information regarding public consultations on dispute resolution investor-state and research among small and medium-sized enterprises on US obstacles. The Advisory Group established at the beginning of 2014 on Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TIP) issues also supports immediate dialogue and achieving the best result for European citizens. Several public discussions were organized in Bulgaria on TTIP issues, which allowed the exchange of views between government, business, academic circles, NGOs about perspectives, opportunities, challenges for the Bulgarian business, including small and medium-sized ones, and the expected effects on the Bulgarian economy. Even during the discussion within the European Union of the draft mandate for negotiating the Bulgarian side laid out principled positions for defending interests and highlighted important or sensitive topics for Bulgaria, among which: - facilitating and improving access to the US market and seeking convergence of the procedures and rules of origin of the goods; - aspiration for a high level of ambition and the most favourable conditions of access to the US market for services and public procurement, including at US level, with a guaranteed adequate degree of transparency; - seeking a degree of convergence between the two regulatory regimes, which will facilitate the activities of commercial operators to the maximum extent, without, however, leading to a distance from the rules in force, without leading to a reduction of European standards, the high standards of the European Union, including, I stress, and preserving the ban on GMOs; - making significant commitments by the US in the negotiations on the rules, including on energy and raw materials; - the inclusion of provisions ensuring adequate and effective protection of all types of intellectual property rights, with particular attention to geographical indications and avoidance of bitter experience and contradictions relating to criminal provisions relating to the negotiations similar to the ACTA negotiations. We also insist on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in tackling challenges and making full use of the benefits arising from the future agreement. Bulgaria participates equally with the other Member States in the process, monitors the reporting of its interests and will not allow the imposition of clauses with which it does not agree. I assure you that the Ministry of Economy takes into account the active dialogue with the Bulgarian business and civil society as extremely important. As I told the Council of the European Union on Foreign Relations and Trade and the TIP Conference, honesty, openness and responsibility are needed to society in all matters of the negotiations. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economy maintains and updates rich information regarding the negotiations conducted on its website. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u13	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Lukarsky. However, I must say that there is an impression of the predestination of the Bulgarian position in support of this agreement. I think there's something to be done in this direction. To expand the dialogue not only with organisations that have a direct interest in concluding this agreement, but also with a wider range of citizens, I would say, and with the National Assembly, because here is the place, probably also in the specialized committees, where more information can be delivered, both economic and external. As far as the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party on this issue is concerned, we based on the analysis that we have done at this time, we believe that this agreement to date, as it seems, is neglecting the social aspects that are at the heart of the European project. That's why it's gonna be hard for us to support him. Our position at this stage is against. We want to ensure from now on full transparency and publicity of the negotiation process. In the negotiations Bulgaria to stand for a position in defence of human and social rights, decent working conditions, environmental standards, as well as corporate social responsibility and fair trade, I believe important elements. We stress that the expansion of access to new markets and the strengthening of competition must not be detrimental to consumers and, at the expense of the safety of working conditions and environmental protection. You have stated that genetically modified organisms are a topic that is not included in this agreement. Once again, it is unacceptable for such provisions to be present from our point of view. That is to say, in the negotiations. With regard to shale gas, it must also be clear that in this agreement we would not support any provisions that would facilitate, alleviate or oblige to some extent the Member States of the European Union to allow exploration and extraction of shale gas. Finally, a key issue for the special dispute settlement mechanism, an investor-state in the agreement. We believe that both sides of the agreement, the United States, the European Union and the member states, have sufficiently developed legal and judicial systems, and this issue must initially be excluded from the agreement in order to be able to rely on any wider support. I hope that we will be able to cooperate on this in the future, and I also stress, much more actively, with the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Minister Lukarski, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u16	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr Vigenin, I absolutely agree with you that there should be more publicity and more work of the Ministry of Economy in TIP negotiations and with Parliament. In addition, I have reported to the Economic Commission the conclusions of my participation in the European Council on Foreign Trade, in relation to this and the TIP negotiations, which I have also said here. I understand BSP's position, but I can tell you that there is no retreat with regard to shale gas. You listened to the prime minister's blitzcontrol, where he said the moratorium on shale gas would be maintained. This is our position from which we have no discount. We have informed the European Union... we have no retreat on this issue. I don't think there should be any concerns. With regard to arbitration clauses, I would like to point out to you that such clauses are generally also permitted under the Civil Procedure Code, so their complete exclusion is contrary to the Bulgarian legislation. We will continue to inform the public. At my insistence, including at the insistence of other European Union ministers, much of the clauses are now available to the general public, so that the requested not only in Bulgaria, but also throughout the European Union more transparency and publicity in terms of TIP negotiations is already in place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u17	Dear Minister, thank you for your duplicate and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Before going to the questions to Minister Ivaylo Moskovski, let me inform you that on the balcony our guests are students from the Middle School of Education in Shumen. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] There is a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov regarding changes in the Republican transport scheme. The question is addressed to Ivaylo Moskovski " Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications." Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my request is in connection with the order of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications of 18 July 2014. It has established changes in the transport scheme in the different administrative areas, the most important are in Blagoevgrad region. A number of meetings were held with representatives of the district management.. Blagoevgrad, Automobile Administration................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These meetings were agreed on major issues concerning changes in the Republican transport scheme in Blagoevgrad District, but according to this order only some of the passengers' carriers, mainly from the town of Blagoevgrad, were met. The requests of other carriers from the district, mainly from the municipalities of Sandanski, Petrich, Gotse Delchev, Garmen and Satovcha, were ignored and the current change of the transport scheme had direct negative consequences for them as well as for passengers. They are mainly expressed in the fact that, according to the new route description of the bus line from Sofia to these municipalities, transport companies are already unable to use an intermediate stop. The change of the transport scheme concerning the bus lines from Sofia to the respective municipalities without an intermediate stop is obviously ineffective for a large part of the carriers for the following reasons: the absence of such an intermediate stop to those municipalities of the regional transport scheme duplicates, will therefore duplicate similar lines from the Republican road scheme and, on the other hand, will lead to inefficiency of the two lines to the same locality. The lack of an intermediate stop,.. Blagoevgrad, will result in unnecessary additional costs by providing additional lines that will not have full passenger capacity. On the other hand, buses to Sofia will also have incomplete capacity. All this turned out to be ineffective, not profitable against the background of the current situation. The lack of an intermediate stop, of course, will lead to serious difficulties for the carriage of passengers to certain places in the municipalities mentioned above. In this regard and in view of the above, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you: do you consider that the order in question of 18 July 2014 of the Minister of Transport and Information Technology is appropriate? Does it effectively optimize the transport scheme in Southwestern Bulgaria? What are the possibilities and do you think the preparation of a new, rational transport scheme in Blagoevgrad region is necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Minister Moskovski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, on the first question concerning the appropriateness and effectiveness of the order cited, I would like to point out that the changes to the timetable established by the order in question were carried out entirely in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Road Transport and the Decree on its basis No 2 of 15 March 2002 on the terms and conditions for the carriage of passengers and buses, on the validation of transport schemes and on the implementation of public transport of passengers by buses. These requirements were adopted in 2011 on a proposal from the transport sector itself after a wide public discussion. The aim of the changes is to optimise the Republican transport scheme with a view to bringing it into line with the dramatically reduced airport, which leads of course to unfair competition between carriers carrying out transport from the same direction and creates risks related to the safety and security of the carriage of passengers. In our view, it is for this reason that the changes made can be considered effective and appropriate. On the second question that you have asked, I would like to inform you that your order changes only the schedules of the Republican transport scheme, that is, there are no changes in the district and municipal transport schemes. The lines of the regional transport schemes must subsequently comply with the existing route schedules of the Republican transport scheme. It is within the competence of the respective regional governors to establish the necessary changes. New transport schemes may be drawn up at each level of the Republican, regional or municipal level. The same must be taken into account by the actual passengers on the basis of their examination and accordingly coordinated among themselves in order: Republican, then regional, and last but not least the municipal transport scheme. As a major problem here, there is a need for early termination of contracts entrusted to transport services under the transport schemes concerned in order to make simultaneous changes and not phased out. It is for this reason that a near 2-year transitional period was given from 2011 to 2013, in which the districts and municipalities should have taken appropriate measures to implement the new requirements. During this period by the state in the face of the Executive Agency, a continuous dialogue with the municipalities referred to by you has been conducted with the entities whose contracts have expired or expire. The same were notified of the conflicts in their schedules with other active schedules of the Republican transport scheme. Despite the numerous talks and meetings held by the Executive Agency with representatives of the regional and municipal administration and carriers from the Blagoevgrad region and the commitments they have made so far in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, respectively in the Agency, there are no protocols to demonstrate the transport need for timetables whose contracts have expired and have not complied with the regulatory requirements after an inspection. I would like to point out that these schedules had to be closed. Taking into account the tensions created and on the proposal of the affected municipalities.. Petrich, Sandanski, Gotse Delchev, Garmen and Satovcha, the Committee on the Republican Transport Scheme, in which he participates with a right to vote and a representative of the regional administration, has decided not to close the schedules in question, but to remove the intermediate stops leading to non-compliance with the regulatory requirements. The aim is to preserve the connection of these settlements with Sofia, which is the essence of the Republican transport scheme, which is the first most important, without changing the hours of departure from the end stops. On the third question, your proposal for regulation of a stop at will only for boarding passengers at first sight is acceptable, but here is the question of real control, namely whether in this case there will be other than boarding and landing of passengers, which will be a conflict. In conclusion, I would like to add that similar situations arise in other regions of the country, but these processes are inevitable. There will always be a wrong side whether the rules are applied in stages or at the same time. Another question is whether these rules will remain and apply as they are or should we go looking for a new mechanism to solve this problem. It should be borne in mind that in the transport industry there is no uniformity to this, that is, one part insists that they be preserved. I believe that this issue should be subject to a broad discussion and only after that should a possible change in the regulations, namely the Car Transport Act and the regulations that it derives from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u21	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Stoyanov, order to develop two supplementary questions within a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Indeed you have been prepared in this area and have thoroughly examined the case, but, unfortunately, and ultimately for half a year now de jure yes, indeed this order is lawful, but de facto this issue, this problem has not been solved. The question is whether this order is appropriate. Blagoevgrad is one of the main administrative centers. There are many students from all over the Southwestern region, including the border municipalities of Blagoevgrad region. This largely prejudges the need for optimal transport lines and connections. In fact, it turns out that after half a year after 17.00 daily from Blagoevgrad to the municipalities issues..... Sandanski, Petrich, Gotse Delchev, Garmen and Satovcha there is no bus transport and this makes it extremely difficult not only for students, of course, but also for all residents of Blagoevgrad who work in Blagoevgrad but actually live in the neighboring municipalities. Indeed, I am grateful for your comprehensive answer, but my additional question is: will any necessary, additional steps be taken regarding the possible partial annulment of this order concerning the transport scheme in Blagoevgrad area? This is really necessary. I am grateful to you for being really familiar with the details of the case and perhaps it is necessary to do so, to initiate a common meeting between all interested parties, as you said, a more serious, deeper debate, indeed, to find the most optimal option, the most optimal algorithm to solve this awkward issue for the Southwestern region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Minister Moskovski, please answer the supplementary questions of the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stoyanov, of course, I make a commitment to consider each case as a single case and as an operational one, whatever it is necessary to take measures to prevent distortion of the principle, or, in this case, to allow a particular direction not to be served in any way by transport. But I want you to understand. The problem with us is that, at the same time, I say this in the context of what is happening today and in the railways, we need to cover as a transport scheme, other than the requirements for bus transport, the requirements for rail transport, to fit the scheme so that there is no conflict between passengers for one and the other, at the same time the Regional and Municipal Transport Scheme will be adapted to the Republican Transport Scheme and at the same time to strive not to allow conflict between the individual settlements. I'm looking at it on a republican scale, but you specifically have it in a regional one. In order for these things to happen, the least that is required to have a proper solution to this problem is at least one-thinking on the part of the industry, and we don't have one. The branch is divided between individual associations, everyone defends more or less close interests depending on who performs the transport service and, basically, we ourselves are put in an inability to partner for the correct solution of the issue. At the very least, at least if the industry stands with an adequate and unified position on these topics, it will be a little easier for us to adapt all these municipal and regional wishes to the Republican network and therefore be bound by the other mode of transport that exists in the state. We're obliged to cover the transport scheme to him as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Stoyanov, please come in for consideration regarding the answers of Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you are indeed right that there is obviously no consensus in the transport industry. That is why I appeal to you again. Let even another meeting be held. Initiate it if we have to jointly initiate such a working meeting between all stakeholders: the Ministry of Transport, the regional administration, the Automobile Administration and the relevant representatives of the municipalities, of course, not least, and the carriers with a view to finding the best option and efficient use as a whole of the National Transport Scheme and in particular the Regional Transport Scheme, because in the end this will be mostly for the benefit of passengers who use these services. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. We move on to a next question to Minister Moskovski, and he is asked by the National Representative Vili Lilkov for a request of Sofia Municipality to acquire free ownership on part of the terrain of the former railway line of Sofia. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the fate of the route of the former railway in Sofia and the fate of Pioneer Station. I'd like to remind you of a few things before I ask my own questions. On 15 September 2011, the Municipal Council of the capital decided to acquire a free ownership right on the route of the former district railway line of Sofia, which amounted to about 154 acres of unique route for the capital city, and this decision was taken on the basis of prior talks with the Minister of Transport. On 10 February 2012 the decision was forwarded to the district governor of Sofia for the procedure under art. 54 of the State Property Act, after which more than two years it remained unfulfilled. Quite unexpectedly in June 2014, the government of Plamen Oresharski announced Pioneer Station for sale. Thirty-seven acres of unique terrain in the heart of Sofia was declared for sale. As this sale did not take place, the caretaker government later confirmed the intentions to sell this plot and in this regard I ask my questions: Why was the decision of the Municipal Council of the capital not met and what steps were taken to ensure that Sofia Municipality acquires the route that begins at the Black Peak Boulevard and ends at the Iskarsko shose, at least part of it? Has Pioneer Station been sold and, if not, what are the intentions of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications about its fate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Minister Moskovski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! According to Decision No 554 of the Sofia Municipal Council of 15 September 2011 provided for the free admission of ownership of 11 plots of land with a total area of 100 227 square meters, provided for the management of the National Railway Infrastructure Company. By Decision No 554 of 24 July 2014, the Council of Ministers, in order to satisfy the public need of local importance, transferred three of the properties representing parts of the area of the surrounding railway line of the city of Sofia in the section of the "Iskarsko shose" boulevard to the "Tokuda hospital" The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has agreed that two of the properties with a total area of 3386 square meters should be transferred free of charge under art. 54 of the State Property Act of Sofia Municipality. The documents prepared are sent by competence to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to adopt the necessary actions in this regard. In two of the properties, with a total area of 13 548 square meters, located near a multifunctional sports hall in Sofia, needed for the construction of a bike and a pedestrian alley in order to improve the transport and communication services of the hall, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is about to initiate a transfer procedure. For two other properties, with a total area of 16 672 square meters, despite the decision of the Sofia Municipal Council, Sofia Municipality has not made a specific request for their acquisition by the National Company "Railway Infrastructure" and respectively by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications no actions have been taken. The Sofia Municipal Council with the above-mentioned decision agrees to the acquisition of two land estates with a total area of 1738 sq. m, which is part of a property with an area of 12 459 sq. M. By letter dated 24 January 2012, the chief architect of Sofia Municipality, Mr. Dikov, informed that the need for the transfer of this property had already ceased. For properties with an area of 35 616 sq. After entering the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications of an initiative file together with all documents necessary for this purpose, action may be taken to initiate a regulatoryly established procedure for their free transfer. Regarding the question: were the plots sold at Pioneer Station and, if not, what are the intentions of the Ministry? By Decision No 514 of 18 July 2014 the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria agreed to sell two real estate private state property granted for the management of the National Railway Infrastructure. By orders of 16 October 2014 of the Minister of Information Technology and Communications, tenders were opened for the sale of the properties described above, respectively on 1 December 2014 and 3 December 2014. The deadline for submitting documents and depositing for participation in the tender, scheduled on 1 December, did not receive any offers and deposits received. In this respect, the Commission for the conduct of the tender in accordance with the Rules for Implementation of the State Property Act has decided to declare it unsubstantiated. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. On 27 November 2014 the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications received an initiative from an interested person under art. 20 of the Law on concession concessions on the two real estates forming part of the former Pioneer Station in their entirety. The auction commission in respect of the second property after detailed knowledge and analysis has made an investment proposal and has proposed that the tender be terminated. By my order, the report of the commission's work has been confirmed and the tender announced has therefore been terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Lilkov, come in for a line to Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u32	Thank you for your detailed answer, Mr. Minister. I mean, here's the thing. I am pleased that Pioneer Station was not sold because it would be a betrayal of the interests of the citizens of Sofia. This would not be in the interest of urban development. What's more, some concession I've heard of for the first time! Furthermore, as far as I understand it, only a few properties of all the properties for which a decision has been made in Sofia Municipality have been transferred to the municipality. In connection with the fact that the route we are talking about, and Pioneer Station are unique, with a total length of 6 kilometers, which connects the diverse parts of the city and hides an incredible potential to become something very interesting and attractive to the capital, I have a proposal for you and I want to hear your answer. Do you agree to hold a working meeting with Sofia's chief architect and the mayor of Sofia to discuss the fate of this route and to assign the chief architect specifically to be designed and not to work in a piece? Because the practice of working a piece in Sofia and the state to implement some policies and the municipality to think in another direction is harmful to the interests of the city. In that sense, I repeat, I am satisfied with the answer I received. Pioneer Station wasn't sold. A transfer of parts has begun in the face of the former rail line, but in order to do something good for the city, the state and the municipality must meet and discuss the fate of the route and of Pioneer Station.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Minister Moskovski, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Lilkov, in the previous term of our government, I was personally the initiator who proposed to the municipality and I personally talked to Mr. Dikov to realize this idea. It's about seven kilometers of bikeway, park zone, benches, gazebos, lighting, civilized work in the square. It's east. What's better than a relationship to the gym. I also took action in which I entrusted the National Railway Infrastructure Company to dismantle the existing railway line. If you recall, there was a protest in front of the ministry. They accused me of a railroad killer and some shit like that. With posters, about 50 or 100 people came. And there were municipal councillors at that protest. I did my job. Unfortunately, even after that, since we didn't have any problems with the existing waitout on the already dismantled railway line to provide it, to date I haven't seen a project on this bike. After all, I wanted to say things: "You transferred it, and tomorrow we start building it. " This is not serious. So I am the last person to be blamed or accused that there was no initiative in the center of Sofia to become a beautiful park zone with the bike, with a pedestrian zone and so on. Do the other job, I'm okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. It is asked by the National Representative Angel Naydenov about the realization of a project for development and modernization of the port of Varna. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, yes, my question is related to the development and modernization of the port of Varna and in this regard the realization of the project for an intermediate terminal. The background, Mr. Minister. The program "Regions in growth", which was approved by the government with Prime Minister Oresharski, set funds of 15 million, which were planned for the realization of a project for the creation of an intercultural terminal in the territory of Varna. Unfortunately, during the operation of the office, this programme was reviewed, part of the funds frozen, accordingly redirected, including the 15 million, which were provided for the Ministry of Transport for the implementation of the project for modernization of the port of Varna. Dear Minister, this has happened against the background of three things. Firstly, this decision of the caretaker government coincided with the conduct of the firm's selection contest for the creation of the idea project. International companies with a name and authority took part in this competition. The tender paperwork was open. Accordingly, there were 8-10 million offers for the various companies. Secondly, this decision came with the extremely strong support for the realization of this project both in local and regional authorities in Varna and in professional circles, of course, and in the public of Varna. By the way, I will open a clamp and say that during the election campaign all representatives of the political formations, including the eight parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly from Varna, were declared full support for the implementation of this project. Thirdly, this decision came against the background of already presented parameters of the project in Varna, respectively created attitudes and expectations, including in all circles related to the development of the maritime industry and the transport industry respectively. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question is: what is the fate of the competition already held, the open tender documentation and, of course, not less important, even more importantly, what is your opinion on the further perspective for the development of the port of Varna and the intercultural terminal? What can we expect as a perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Minister Moskovski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, with Decree of the Council of Ministers No 19 of 7 February 2014 approving funds from the reserve under art. 1, para. 2, Section II, t. 4.2 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and communication activities in the field of research, technological development and demonstration activities in the field of research, technological development and demonstration activities in the field of research, technological development and demonstration activities. lv. The sum of 15 million. lv. is intended for the design of the Intermodal Terminal Varna (public investment programme). Decision No RD-14-36 of 30 April 2014 of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications announced an open procedure for the selection of a contractor under the Public Procurement Act with the subject of the project. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the co-entity of this order, the State Enterprise of Port Infrastructure and the State Enterprise of National Company of Railway Infrastructure. The State-owned enterprise Port Infrastructure and the State-owned company National Company Railway Infrastructure and Railway Infrastructure, as co-entity, have authorised the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or an authorised person to conduct the procedure. The contract with the selected contractor for the award of the contract is intended to be signed by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and by the Director-General of the State-owned enterprise The procurement documents and the selection of a contractor shall be carried out by a committee of experts appointed by order of the law. Consortium is appointed as a contractor with an offer of 8 million. 768 thousand. £800. without VAT. A contract with the selected contractor will be concluded after providing the necessary financial resources. Given the importance of the project, opportunities are sought to secure its funding from different sources. It should be borne in mind that the port of Varna has developed very dynamically in recent years as a port operator and has grown in the handling of cargo. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In order to achieve this, more than 1450 vessels have been processed. But that's over 300,000. Heavy goods vehicles visiting the port annually are a problem not only for the city's citizens and tourism business, but also for the port's management regarding the organisation of work during the active tourist season, when it is also the active campaign on grain exports. In the current situation, the territory of the port has been located in the city centre and regardless of the permanent solutions to streamline service and reduce traffic, port and city traffic for many years have been in conflict with their development. In this connection, the implementation of the project for building the Varna Intermodal Terminal would allow to some extent reduce conflict zones and at least partially create conditions for the development of the urban area at the expense of port areas. With regard to the prospects for the development of the port of Varna for years, solutions are sought for the export of the port from the central urban area and its release from the problems with pollution of the environment and traffic. In the implementation of the Project "Technical assistance for the development of the Bulgarian ports" financed under Priority Axis 5 "Technical assistance" of the Operational Programme is currently being implemented Project "Development of a concept for the development of the Bulgarian ports for public transport of national importance based on the expected turnovers. The concept aims to outline the overall vision for the development of public transport ports in Bulgaria as part of the water transport system within both the National Transport System and the European Transport Network. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, just two sentences. Based on the concept for the development of the Bulgarian ports, the relevant procedures for updating the masterplans of the ports and their development will be undertaken. As a possible perspective for the development of Port Varna is also providing it with a concession, thus attracting financially stable investors with experience in the construction, management and operation of sites from the port infrastructure. There will be opportunities for: - expansion, modernisation and improvement of the site of concession and its transformation into a convenient and attractive transport centre; - improving the capacity and quality of cargo handling and passenger service; - creating conditions for increasing traffic in goods and passengers; - improve the quality and diversity of services provided; - increasing and diversifying commercial and advertising activities in the port area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u39	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Naydenov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we have no differences in the presentation of the facts on the background of this project and the need for the implementation of the project for the Intermodal Terminal, including, of course, the solutions for granting the funds, including the decisions for freezing in the office. I explicitly stress this because I do not wish to burden you with the responsibility of your predecessor, to whom you have no regard as a liability and therefore as a direct attitude. Mr. Minister, I accept your response with mixed feelings. On the one hand, you give hope with the answer that he is an elected performer. Isn't that right, I'm not mistaken for what you're saying? Secondly, I understand that you realize the need to have a project so that the various forms of realization of this project can be realized, such as funding, as parameters, of course, all related to the functioning of the local authorities and the development of the image of Varna as a modern, modern, European port city and the sea capital of Bulgaria. Of course, I realize that you, as Minister of Transport, are aware of the importance of realising this project from the point of view that otherwise, otherwise, if it is not realized, we lose name, authority, load loads are directed to other destinations, we lose revenue, we lose jobs. It's happening right now. Why, though, do I say with mixed feelings? Because, Minister, you say: realization of this project when and if the necessary funds are provided. If they amount to 7-8 million, I expect from you, for example, in the reply to say: this year our government, that is, your government, will provide these funds, will develop the project. The time for realization of this commitment is within 6 to 9 months, according to the preliminary assignment, i.e. entirely within 2015. That is, we will be able to rely on the end of this year for realization of the project in different forms. That's what I expect you to tell me. Otherwise, Minister, we're behind. We are losing opportunities, Varna is losing opportunities and this will be another blow to the expectations of people who are related to the maritime industry, respectively with the expectation of modernization and development of the port infrastructure and naturally the people who are related to the transport industry. This is what I expect from you and I very much ask you to say specifically will the money be provided for the implementation of the outcome of the tender procedure already carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Here you are for the doppelganger, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Naydenov, that's what I'm telling you: we will do everything we can to ensure, God willing, that we can secure the entire sum. We don't want to stop this project. Of course, there are few conventions, but I believe you're familiar with them. The territory on which this terminal is to be built, which is yet to be designed, has a case. The municipality is suing the State-owned enterprise Port Infrastructure and has won the case at first instance. It is not that this is any grand problem, since even if the municipality wins this territory as its property, it does not subsequently prevent the operator of this terminal from renting it from the municipality accordingly. There is a mechanism, but for the time being, as the project is at stake, is viewed by the concept of this State-owned enterprise - Port infrastructure - to be the owner of the terminal, which, you understand, creates a little conflict within the relationship between operators, state-owned enterprises and a municipality. I'm not saying it's a subject that can stop development. We have no idea to stop designing this terminal. Our only case is to provide funding, and last year we transferred funds from a State-owned enterprise Physically, there was no possibility of signing a contract and that money would have been lost by the Transport sector. That's why we rerouted them. We will do everything in our power to secure funding and continue this project with the conventions I have told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u43	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Georgi Kadiev on the safety of the movement with BDZ and the frequent cases of trains moving against each other in the same track. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u44	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question was asked on 25 November, when there was still no intention, or at least it was not known to the public, to reduce the number of trains moving in BDZ and all this activity around BDZ had not started. At the time, however, there were some unpleasant incidents regarding security, which led me to ask this question, which I will develop to a certain extent today in relation to the new developments. Dear Mr. Moskovski, on September 17, 2014 at Aytos Station on the departure of a passenger train to the Bulgarian train station is moving against another train. In this case, one of the drivers noticed a discrepancy and stopped the other train formation. Luckily this time the consequences are only in delay of train compositions. On 28 October 2014 a train headed towards Sofia "Varna is moving against the former express "Sunny Beach" at Bezmer Station. Then a more serious incident was prevented only because the speed limit was 25 kilometers per hour and the drivers had time to react. On 8 November 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 8 November 2014 to 25 November 2014 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 November 2015 to 25 November 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 November 2015 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). You The crash was averted after the Aytos station employees turned off the voltage on the contact network. The situation is repeated near Tserkovski on November 16, 2014, when the train is moving against each other Sofia and the passenger train Burgas Yambol. It's a coincidence that on so many occasions in just one month, there hasn't been a serious accident. In these trains, hundreds of people often travel, and a possible incident can have very serious consequences. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: How do you assess the situation of safety of movement with BDZ? What are the reasons for the highly frequent cases of trains moving against each other in the same track, threatening serious incidents? What measures have been taken to ensure the security of the movement and what is the responsibility taken by the NRIC to put the lives of thousands of Bulgarian citizens at risk? I would like to add to the question: if you have more information that you can give us about your upcoming, or what has already happened with the Finance Minister today, about BDZ's financial situation. I would like to remind you that the measures you took last month are as follows: stopping or reducing the route of 166 trains; reducing the scope of the activities of BDZ by 20%; firing 1500 railway workers; strong regional problems, for example in the region of Gabrovo 50% of trains will be stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u45	Is there a question, 'cause you're already running out of time by one minute?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u46	All this has a direct bearing on the safety of trains. Therefore, Minister, please first, start with the answer to the reform of BDZ, which is coming and then proceed to the answer to the safety of trains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u47	For an answer, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kadyev, because I feel that you want to pick a fight, let me tell you: in our day people are still not on fire, and people are on fire in yours. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] With regard to safety, if you had repaired for a sanitary minimum of 25 million rolling stock last year, in the case of locomotives, we would not have to stop them now. In connection with your question, which is input, because what you asked me about in the end, has not been inputted to you. I inform you that for the project "Restructure and electrification of the railway line along Corridors IV and IX Plovdiv "Svilengrad" within the scope of which the settlements quoted in the letter were signed Protocol No 16, on 28.06.2012, as well as the permission to use issued on 29 June 2012 by the Directorate of National Construction Control (National Construction Control) to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. For the railway section there are certificates of execution issued by the engineer within the meaning of FIDIK. [[Noise and lines.]] This fact in itself means that all facilities along the new route have been implemented according to the approved technical projects, with the existing also by the "Basaenova" Directorate, the "Irrigation systems" and the relevant municipalities, on the basis of which a construction permit was granted, construction was carried out and the necessary protocols were signed, according to the legal documents in force. The published facilities within the scope of the Project "Restructuring and electrification of the railway along Corridors IV and IX Plovdiv "Svilengrad" have the capacity to report surface waters to the Maritsa River. [[Noise and lines.]] It should be noted that the letter does not specify specific facilities, quoting settlements and terrains around them for approximately 30 km of iron road without specifying... Wait, I'm reading you an answer to another question. Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u49	This is what happens when many questions are collected, Members 15 hours of answers to parliamentary control have ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u50	I'm so sorry. National Company "Railway infrastructure" owns a safety certificate, while "BDZ" and "BDZ transports" Ltd., and "BDZ freight transports" hold a safety certificate and have their safety management scheme built. They shall ensure the necessary level of safety in their operations in the course of transport. By setting up the hazard register, they shall define all risks that exist when carrying out the transport and appropriate corrective action shall be prescribed after their assessment in order to reduce the risk to acceptable levels. The safety management scheme established in this way for the operation of passenger and freight transport in rail transport meets all safety requirements within European transport and all railway undertakings in Bulgaria have demonstrated in practice that they have implemented the operational management and safety system, which meets all safety criteria under Regulation No 59 on railway safety management. In this sense, railway safety is guaranteed by the railway infrastructure implemented by the National Company and the transport procedures laid down in the safety management system which they have prepared and implemented. Regarding the question of what are the causes of the highly frequent cases of trains moving against each other. The reasons for these cases relate to the rehabilitation and modernisation of railway infrastructure in these areas. In this situation, the operational staff of the National Railway Infrastructure Company with functions in control and control of train traffic perform their duties in an unnatural environment. In carrying out construction works, automated train signalling and traffic control systems are temporarily excluded in order to carry out the replacement of the railway, the contact network, as well as the renewal of the power plants themselves with new ones, modernisation or renewal of the replacement of an elementary base. The centralisations do not work and numerous activities are carried out by manual means, and most cases a guarantee of proper operation of manipulation is the arrowhead and his oral report to the traffic controller who gives the traffic authorisation signal. Here, the human factor is fundamental and there is an opportunity for mismanipulation by operators, creating conditions for accidents and incidents. All cases of accidents and accidents are considered by the safety services. The relevant conclusions have been drawn and action has been taken. The situations of human error have been investigated, analyses have been carried out and disciplinary responsibility has been sought by the relevant employees and managers. In addition, the following measures are prescribed: both passing and simultaneous reception and sending of trains to stations with the exclusion of insurance equipment [[the President signals that time has run out]] ; the transit of trains into these stations is prohibited; all trains shall be stopped and after their establishment shall be carried out in accordance with all procedures for the safe dispatch of a train from a railway station with the exclusion of equipment; the speed for the movement of trains shall be limited to 25 km with readiness to stop when noticing the non-compliance between the prescribed conditions; additional types of darts shall be assigned to stations with intensive movement, the positions of the darts shall be increased; the schedule of movement of all speed and passenger trains shall be changed. It should be noted that, in the context of an intensive modernisation of the constructed railway infrastructure, the risk of transport is increased in the short term. However, in the long term, the benefits of this modernisation and rehabilitation include in building the security system higher than the current level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u51	In the back you will develop the answer to your question. A line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u52	Dear Mr. Moskovski, dear colleagues! I understand that the mass of questions is so large that sometimes in the middle of the answer you understand that you actually answer another question. I'm not picking on you at all. I don't envy you at all, your position is now one of the toughest in the government. It is not easy to fire 1,500 people, it is not easy to carry on your back the likelihood of accidents at any moment and lost lives. What happened during our government was quite incorrect of you to say that at least we didn't burn people, because by the same logic I can say that there were terrorist acts with you, we didn't. But these things happen, don't they, and nobody wants them? We didn't want them, you didn't want them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u53	It was for the railways, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u54	Dear Minister, from what you've answered, I've memorized a few things. First, trains move in an unnatural environment. Secondly, largely the technical safety systems have been shut down. Third, there is a problem with the human factor. Fourth, mistakes are made on sharpshooters that can lead to fatal human casualties. I want you as a person and as a minister to answer me, not to look on the list what the experts have written to you: Do you feel comfortable with the state of safety of the Bulgarian State Railways? Would you force your family today to move calmly on the Bulgarian State Railways? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u55	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kadyev, I'm starting backwards. My mother and father for Christmas and New Year came by train to Sofia, were visiting me, so they use the railways often. A year and a half ago, by the time we were in the forward term, these projects had already started. I'll tell you how they worked in our time. Where rehabilitation and modernization of a route took place, we have not allowed ourselves to untie at the same time more than three stations..................................................................... So the work plan was made that we never allowed ourselves to untie more than three stations at the same time. The moment we took over again, I found myself on several routes at the same time along seven-eight stations untied. I don't know how it got here, I have no idea, it's a more detailed analysis, but I guess someone didn't do their job. The global European practice is such that more than three or four stations should not be untied, and, if it is done, there are mobile stations which, of course, are not so cheap, but can be purchased and provide this security and safety. That is why we are placed in this situation where these rehabilitations and modernizations take place. What I can say is that I'm making a commitment where we start building again, not to let it come to that, as I've never let it happen before it comes to it. We don't have the defect. I'm untied at once eight stations, it's a route of nearly 88-90 kilometers, which actually creates a risk. This is technically explained what is happening there and why it comes to these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u57	Thank you. Ask from [[a line from MP Atanas Merdjanov]] National Representative Kristian Vigenin on Government policy regarding the Republic of Bulgaria to the Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u58	I'll give you a chance. I understand, Mr. Merdjanov, the procedure you requested after I started and announced the question. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] Mr. Vigenin, are you going to ask your question, or am I going to think you're giving up on him to release the prime minister from parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u59	Madam President, that sounded like blackmail, but I still have to ask myself the question. Excuse me, Mr. Merdjanov. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The development of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia should be among the strategic priorities of each Bulgarian government. The reasons have not only historical character, but also quite pragmatic dimensions related to creating new economic opportunities for businesses on both sides of the border, expanding tourism exchange, strengthening cooperation in education, science, culture and so on. These are also issues on which Bulgarian citizens are highly sensitive, especially in Pirin Macedonia. During your first term as Prime Minister, the Bulgarian policy towards the Republic of Macedonia has undergone serious reversals from uncritical support for the beginning of negotiations for membership in the EU, until a sharp change to a very critical tone and blocking the beginning of negotiations; by denying the idea of signing a Treaty on Good Neighborhood and Cooperation launched by Stanishev's cabinet, until such a treaty has become a mandatory condition for supporting the next steps in the European integration process of the Republic of Macedonia and in general for the development of bilateral relations. Towards the end of your government in 2013 for bilateral relations was the motto of the first contract, then cooperation................................................................................................. And if it were. With the Oresharski government, we adopted the approach to negotiate a treaty at the same time and to encourage cooperation in order to create a better atmosphere in relations, which, in turn, would allow for the necessary compromises to be found. This approach led to concrete results and brought us closer to signing a Neighborhood and Cooperation Treaty. By defending the understanding that Bulgaria needs a widely supported national policy to be consistent, open, predictable and active, please answer the following questions: What position will the Republic of Macedonia take in the foreign policy priorities of the government and will there be an aspiration for a better coordinated and financially secured policy towards neighbours and specifically towards the Republic of Macedonia, given that this topic is practically absent in your government's Programme, I hope there will be one in the future programme? Will concrete measures be taken to stimulate economic cooperation between the two countries, tourism, business contacts and communication between people on both sides of the border, such as the development of connecting road infrastructure and the opening of planned border crossing points more than 15 years ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u60	For an answer, Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister. Five minutes, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday at the blitzcontrol was a much more complete parliament. It's Friday. We must be tireder. Dear Mr Vigenin, the policy the government is pursuing with regard to the Republic of Macedonia, I confirm that it remains unchanged and consistent. The Republic of Bulgaria has repeatedly declared that it supports the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Macedonia. We have expressed our willingness to discuss and provide expert assistance on specific issues related to our experience so that the country can make progress along the path of its membership both in the European Union and in NATO. At the same time, we have also clearly stated our expectations that the Republic of Macedonia will make the necessary efforts to meet all criteria and conditions for membership in the European Union, including the principle of good neighbourliness. In our belief, only the European integration of the countries in the region will help promote peace and stability in Southeast Europe, and in this process we will defend the rights and legitimate interests of the Bulgarian communities in these countries. At the same time, this does not mean that the Republic of Bulgaria does not attach the necessary importance for bilateral contacts with each of our neighbouring countries. Bulgaria here will continue to defend the need to sign a Treaty on Good Neighborhood and Cooperation, which remains our top priority. It is our view that the Treaty does not represent any additional requests to the Republic of Macedonia and will give legal effect to the political arrangements reached in the 1999 Prime Minister's declaration. Bulgaria and Macedonia successfully co-financed by the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance 2007-2013, with the Managing Authority Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with a total budget of 19.9 million during the programming period 2007-2013. Euros. A total of three open calls for recruitment and proposals were announced, with a total of 103 contracts worth 22,3 million. euros implemented jointly by Bulgarian and Macedonian public institutions and organizations. Paid-up funds to partners from both countries amounted to 13 million. Euros. The projects being implemented are mainly in the field of tourism, cultural exchange, improving the economic situation of the cross-border region and improving local infrastructure. For the 2014-2020 programming period, Bulgaria and Macedonia will continue to co-operate with the cross-border co-operation programme Bulgaria, co-financed by the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance 2014-2020. The overall budget of the Programme is 19.4 million. EUR with projects in the field of environmental protection, tourism development and the development of the competitiveness of the cross-border region for both countries. The final version of the Programme was approved at a programme meeting of the Joint Working Group on 21 August in Sofia and after its approval by the Council of Ministers was sent to the European Commission on 22 September 2014. At this stage official comments are expected from the European Commission and according to the preliminary information received the Programme is expected to be approved in June 2015, and the activities under it will be implemented by 2022. This is our answer to the first question. I quote your question. On your second question, you refer to the opening of a new checkpoint along the border with the Republic of Macedonia and, in particular, I suppose, the opening of the checkpoint. On 28 November last year, Minister Pavlova gave a detailed answer to your question about the opening of the border crossings....................... the construction and construction of connecting infrastructure in the region between Strumiani and Berovo, and the actions fall back into the portfolio of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In order not to repeat what she said, I will be very brief. The opening of border crossing points may take place only by an act of the Council of Ministers on terms and conditions laid down in an international agreement or an international treaty between the two countries. As a recent foreign minister, you know well that Bulgaria does not have a signed current agreement with Macedonia to open this checkpoint. The 1999 Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia should be updated so that it meets the current conditions. I assume that you have been informed that in 2005 an assessment was made that the road Strumiani "Mikrevo" "Razdol," the border of the Republic of Macedonia with a length of 30 km is a suitable road for a new crossing. A technical project for rehabilitation, reconstruction and new construction of the road was prepared. Within the framework of the project "Redevelopment and construction of the road Strumyani "Berovo " between Bulgaria and Macedonia is funded by the program... [[The President signals that time has run out]] . There's more, but my time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u62	Two additional questions, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, regarding border crossing points, I do not want you to answer me as a regional minister. So let my supplementary question be asked as follows. These 1999 agreements need to be updated, but do you then consider it necessary to update them? Since a total of three are provided for there: since 1999. Two, and since 2005. A new border crossing? I am aware that the possibility of funding under pre-accession funds has been dropped since 2005. 2006 but do you still believe that funding can be sought from both the state budget and, why not, the new investment plan announced by the Juncker Commission? Such projects could have a relevant priority when it comes to connecting infrastructure between two countries. I stress here that this is not about full-scale crossing points, but about those who allow light traffic so that those living on both sides of the border, who are most often relatives, can have easy access. Since you mentioned specifically the crossings of Klepalo, people have to go over 100 km to get from one neighbouring municipality to the other, which I believe today does not meet Bulgaria's interests in relations with the Republic of Macedonia. That's one of my supplementary questions. The second question I would still like to ask, as the first steps of this government give no reason to believe that Balkan policy will be a priority. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov offers a bouquet to the National Representative Cornelia Ninova. Radiation, applause.]] I hope this affects my time. It wasn't much of a priority somehow, at least it didn't look like that in your first term. Do you still think Bulgaria will play this active role that suits it in foreign policy here in Southeast Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u64	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, allow me to be such a gentleman as my colleague Tsvetanov, to congratulate Mrs. Nino on her birthday to be alive and well, still smart and beautiful. [[Applause.]] At the same time, to thank you and think that this is a wonderful idea. I deeply believe, as Mr. Kadyev said just now, if we are trying to unite the efforts, I think it would be better for both the country and for all of us. Indeed, you have seen our first steps were, figuratively speaking, to go around the larger superiors in order to go in the direction of EU funds and everything else. So it is these projects that are included in the Juncker Plan and together to do them with Macedonia that is a wonderful idea for which I thank you. Consider, and this is how I understand the role of the opposition there are things in the volume of work that can be missed, in this case this can really calmly be under the Juncker Plan. Also to consider, especially for such smaller places to gravel the road, just to avoid such movement. So in that direction, I think we'll do it. By the way, as an active role, we already have a lot of requests from the Macedonian side for high-level meetings to come here their prime minister, we are there, so I hope that in the next couple of weeks we can move it. Something that's on the acad. Vodenicharov promised on the basis of today's inquiry to inform you if you didn't know. Two years ago, we commissioned the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to do so to enable historians to comment on many of the facts. I would just like to say about the reference by Mr. Vodenicharov on the cooperation between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the one in Macedonia: In the implementation of this program a joint organized work between scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Macedonian Academy began. As early as the end of 2013, a meeting was held in Sandanski with the participation of more than 60 scientists from both sides. The co-operation papers were signed and agreed on about 40 joint projects in the field of medical, humanitarian, social, environmental-mathematical, biological, technical sciences, on which to work together Bulgarian and Macedonian scientists. Thirty of them have already been successfully worked and teams have been formed. Since the reference is two or three pages long, I don't know if I'll have enough time...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u66	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u67	...I'll leave it to you. But I think that this approach is also correct in this regard, because, you know, scientists and historians have their own style of conversation, they can argue, they can talk, but when they say it, it does not reflect politics between the two sides. We will make an effort to make sure that our so close neighbours from Macedonia are not an obstacle, but to help them join the European Union and NATO, of course, and not to let them know that they little, from time to time, have such a pronounced manifestation in the field of nationalism, but with more tact, skill and understanding, I think we will go through this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u68	Mr. Vigenin's attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u69	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you that this is the second time this week in the Bulgarian Parliament. I don't think it's ever happened before, on such a subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u70	It never happened! [[Laughs. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u71	I'm glad I made it happen. Secondly, because you mentioned the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and their commitment, yes, you had indeed commissioned the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to prepare a report with which I, as Minister, met myself in office. It is a comprehensive and useful report. I hope it's on the desk, as they say, to all foreign ministers. He's something useful. Since you're taking ideas from the opposition, I'm going to take the liberty of developing a little bit more of what I just mentioned. Firstly, to remind you that last year I found that one of the major problems in our relations not only with the Republic of Macedonia, but also with the neighbours, is the fact that there is not enough good coordination between the different ministries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should have a leading role, is gone. We have established a Regional Cooperation Council that has failed to work due to the end of the mandate. I think you should encourage the Foreign Minister to activate him. I hope you won't take it and give it to Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u72	I won't! [[Noise, laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u73	Overall, I think it is time for Bulgaria to start thinking about the creation of its neighbourhood policy. Me and our government didn't have time to develop this idea. However, such a neighbourhood policy, according to the example of the European one, can bring together, as a start, various instruments that finance cooperation between our countries and then create a specific national instrument in the future that will be in addition to the other instruments that still exist under the European Union. So we can always impose our priorities or work on them even more actively. I am ready, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, to cooperate with both your MPs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this direction if the idea is adopted. Thank you again. I hope that this coherent policy will indeed be maintained and results will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. We should also thank Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] The People's Representative Atanas Merdjanov is the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u75	Dear Mr. President, I would like to remind you, through you, to the honourable President of the National Assembly, that she is first among equals. It is the right of the parliamentary group who will want the floor. The declaration in question was also referred to the Prime Minister who just came out. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria expresses its deep concern and concern regarding the way the government and competent institutions approach the issue of the expected new refugee wave. Diverse speeches, undisturbed amalgams, signals of chaos and unpreparedness is the message that broadcasts the debate, led mainly through the media by responsible government factors. We purposely maintained silence on the subject so far because we know how complex and multilayered the problem of refugees is. On the one hand, there are human destinies, genuine suffering, on the other hand, the possibility of dangerous elements creeping in between refugees. Our country's resources are limited, and the efforts for accommodation and subsequently for the integration of foreigners require time, targeted policy and funds. It is precisely because it is complex that the problem requires in cold blood, professional and solidarity behavior of the country's political leadership. Instead, the government seems to be in a state of panic. The Ministry of Interior is transferring responsibilities to the army. The Department of Defense is complaining to the president. The president is inventing a potential diplomatic scandal. The vice president says there won't be one. The Prime Minister does not seem particularly interested and laconic commentary on the topic, and the representative Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva is obviously completely unprepared for the events ahead. In fact, there is no way for the government to be prepared, because when Bulgaria faced the refugee crisis in the summer of 2013, when in 2014 additional accommodation centers were being built, when they were debating the procedures for issuing refugee status, when the Bulgarian-Turkish border was strengthened, then today's rulers were not involved in the work, but were busy with boycott and yelled: "Omission!" A year ago, building a security facility along the border was a scandal. You've been looking at the prosecution, threatening sanctions from the European Commission, asking for a vote of no confidence. Now you seem to understand that no matter what you call it, the fence at the border is inevitable. It is effective and although its construction itself is expensive, in the long term is the cheaper solution to control the migration flow. You accused us that we did not conduct a public procurement, and on Wednesday Borisov requested permission from the parliament to start building as quickly as possible, at a light procedure and at a high price. You decided to include army equipment in border guards while until yesterday you mocked the fact that the Ministry of Defense was helping build the fence. But it is not your double standard and your political hypocrisy that is the subject of this declaration. The subject of this declaration is to assure you that, although in opposition, we are ready to support any appropriate action to prevent a new refugee crisis. Under adequate actions we understand measures to limit the refugee flow, strengthen the capacity of the State Agency for Refugees, attract the necessary international support and improve the integration of those refugees who are entitled to stay in Bulgaria. It is not an appropriate action to remove police guards from the border before there is another way to protect them. It is not an adequate action to appoint Nikola Kazakov as head of the Agency for Refugees, since it is he who is among the main responsible that our country is completely unprepared for the influx of refugees in 2013. We also do not accept Minister Kalfin's statement that, you see, we have had a long-term National Integration Strategy, but we did not have the resources to implement it. Why is such a resource not available in the preparation of the budget for 2015? Why do we even adopt strategies if we can't implement them?! In the days to come, we will deal with the Judicial Reform Strategy. Why would we do that if in time it's possible for some minister to shrug his shoulders and say we don't have the money for this strategy?! Ladies and gentlemen, the problem we are facing is one of the most complex tasks Bulgaria and Europe will have to solve over the next few years. For decades now, countries such as Italy, Greece, Malta have been unable to deal with it and have wandered between the understandable fears of the local population and the legitimate horror that we all experience when we learn about the personal tragedy of a refugee, or we count those drowned in an attempt to sail across the Mediterranean. There is no room for self-sustaining political opposition here, much less internal coalition disarray within the ruling majority. That is why we insist that Prime Minister Borisov personally take over the coordination of the efforts of the responsible departments and not leave things in the hands of a deputy prime minister without a wallet. For her part, Mrs Kuneva would be much more useful if she focused her efforts on the European plan, working to ensure a significantly more decisive financial and material support from the European Union. We also appeal to President Plevneliev: if he wants to be useful to his country, to stop the practice of tossing in front of the media and to work to build the necessary public and political consensus, including by convening the Advisory Council on National Security, if necessary. We also call for responsible public and political factors, for civil factors to refrain from sayings that stigmatize refugees, fuel hatred and undermine integration efforts. Xenophobia and racism are just as dangerous as excessive laxism and the utopian idea that we can help everyone. We cannot ignore the fact that terrorists can be infiltrated into the refugee flow. We therefore insist on controlling the pseudo-reformative drive of some politicians in relation to our intelligence services, and especially to the Military Information Service. The services must be provided with means and peace of mind. That depends on the safety of all of us. For his part, BSP left Bulgaria committed not to repeat the mistakes of last year's opposition, using the problem of refugees as a means of destabilising the government. We will support the rapid completion of the fence, as well as the separation of additional funds to limit the refugee flow and integration of refugees who are admitted to Bulgarian territory. It is good to consider the collection of these funds in a special fund in order to ensure publicity and control. Our representatives in the European Parliament have already shared initiatives for changes in European legislation and a more solid common migration policy. We are open to dialogue and joint action in the name of Bulgaria's national security. We know terrorists and sewers don't care about who's in power right now. You must have figured that out by now. So stop transferring the hot potato and get to work. Winter's gone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Any other affidavits? I won't. We continue with the questions to Minister Moskovski. The next question is from the MP Boris Yachev on measures to prevent floods in the municipality of Parvomay. Here you are, Mr. Yachev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in recent years a number of villages in the municipality of Parvomay, Plovdiv district, have been victims of systemic floods, causing serious damage to buildings and infrastructure. In the last three months alone, several flooded villages of Vinitsa, Popovitsa, Karadzhalovo, and the town of Parvomay itself have suffered. Particularly serious is the situation in Vinitsa, which suffered great damage from the water element, again less than three weeks ago. It is clear that one of the main reasons for the frequent floods in the region are deficiencies in the construction of the new railway route through the villages of Vinitsa and the other villages in the municipality of Parvomay. The terrains around the route represent agricultural lands from the village of Vinitsa and other neighboring villages, whose natural slope is in the northern direction towards the Maritsa river and respectively to the settlements. The old track has given the opportunity for heavy rainfall and snow melting surface waters to pass through it and evenly drain into the existing sewer network. The new track is on a much higher terrain cat and does not allow water to pass through it. The water drain is provided by waterfalls, which due to design or construction error are not related practically to the existing next-door sewer network. This fact, as well as the severely reduced flow capacity of the available drainage facilities, is a prerequisite for systemic flooding of the villages of Vinitsa, Popovo, Karadzhalovo, the town of Parvomay and the other villages located around the railway line. Dear Minister, my current question to you is: what will be the specific measures of your office to overcome the causes leading to systemic flooding in the above-mentioned settlements around the railway line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Minister Moskovski, order an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, in connection with your questioning, I inform you that for Project "Reconstructing and electrification of the railway along corridors 4 and 9 Plovdiv "Svilengrad" within the scope of which are also quoted in the letter settlements, is signed Protocol Model 16 of 28.06.2012, as well as Permission to use with exit No CT-05-755 issued on 29 June 2012 to the Directorate of National Building Control at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. For the railway section there are issued by the engineer and performance certificates within the meaning of FIDIK on 27.02.2013 and on 08.03.2013. This fact in itself means that all facilities along the new route are implemented according to the approved technical projects, agreed also by the Swimming Directorate, the Irrigation Systems and the respective municipalities, on the basis of which a building permit was granted, the construction was implemented and the necessary protocols under the existing legal documents were signed. The built facilities within the scope of the Project "Restructuring and electrification of the line in Corridors 4 and 9 Plovdiv "Svilengrad" have the capacity to drain the surface waters to the Maritsa River. It should be noted that the letter does not specify specific facilities, quoting settlements and terrains around them for approximately 30 kilometers along the railway road, without specifying which facilities there is a doubt that they do not fulfil their purpose, which is why proper and accurate research cannot be carried out. It should also be noted that the route of the new railway line in that section follows to a large extent the route of the old railway line and in many cases the existing drainage facilities of the old railway line are used. Taking into account the fact that the terrain is flat and in relation to the unusually large amounts of precipitation that have fallen over the last year, it is observed higher than the normal level of groundwater. Our observations show that very often during the processing of agricultural land on both sides of the track of the railway line are destroyed or even deleted existing water drainage facilities outside the ownership of a state-owned company National Railway Infrastructure, which leads to the inability to drain these terrains. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that checks and monitoring of the condition of all facilities, including drainage facilities in this area, are carried out in a timely manner and appropriate measures are taken where necessary, the drainage ditches and safety ducts are cleaned, the maintenance of drainage facilities, water ducts and ditches is carried out, prevention of the installed water supply pumps, road and pedestrian subways, where there are them. I believe that this is an appropriate response at this stage, but I would be happy to receive more specific and detailed information about your concerns so that we can examine them, define them in more detail and take, if necessary, even preventive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yachev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u81	To claim that only nature and the anomalies of the last few years are the cause of these floods, which practically start with the greatest intensity immediately after putting into service the railway line, in my opinion it is not right. I have quoted the village of Vinitsa specifically because the situation is the most dramatic. There, an area of about 10,000 acres must be drained practically through two waterships, which are a mile and a half away and which are no larger than the chair's desk behind me. The second reason that specialists point out is that in practice these waterfalls, which are driven under the railway track itself and which must serve as a natural drainage channel, have virtually no connection to the existing drainage network, which is adjacent to less than 7 to 800 meters. The local authorities argue that as they fall within the railway area, they are unable to take any measures without appropriate coordination with the Ministry of Transport and to make this connection with the drainage network and the reservoirs. Furthermore, to claim that the track passes with the old existing track, yes, perhaps largely, up to 70 or 80% repeats in this section the old track, only that the old railway line was almost at ground zero. The new railway line is raised to a cat more than 7 meters. It is currently a natural dam that prevents, again I say, water from a water district, especially in the land of the village of Vinitsa, of about 10 thousand acres, which can not flow through these two watercourses of extremely modest size. Of course, I will give you further technical information specifically about this region. Keep in mind that regardless of signed consensual documents and approvals to put into service this railway section, you yourself are aware that this railway line, designed and built in this way, creates a number of technical and social difficulties, because the whole city of Parvomay is crossed by a railway line. It is practically like an occupied territory through which, to go from one end to the other, is only passed at both ends through one underpass. Specifically for the land of the village of Vinitsa will provide you with all the necessary information. My question is: are you prepared to send on-site specialists to check local people's claims and take appropriate measures?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Minister Moskovski, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, of course I'm ready and I'll send a team of specialists to check on the spot what you claim. One clarification to do.. this is a project called a project of national importance......................................................................................... It is not called a regional project or a project of importance Parvomay. I agree that a project of national importance, passing through different municipalities, districts, settlements probably creates some local difficulties for the population, but agree that its aim is to have some national importance, that is, specifically for these projects, the aim is to achieve a higher speed, to become a more convenient transport service. Of course, passing through, creating some difficulties, creating compensatory mechanisms, respectively underpasses, overpasses or such facilities that do not cost little money, enter as part of the scope of the project and accordingly compensate for the inconveniences they create if they create them. The design of such a project goes through many stages of coordination, it is a long period, sometimes it takes more than a year. All this time everyone has the opportunity to comment, to give their recommendations, their requirements, to say what they do not agree with, to do it publicly, to have a debate on this topic and that is done. I assure you that absolutely all laws of the state are respected in the timeline of coordination of the project stage so that it can be implemented. In this particular case, I said, I'll send a team to assess it. But both the flow rates of the water, and the distance at which they were placed, they were part of a technical project that had gone into coordination and if anyone had any objection, they could have said it, explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before we move on to the next question, for a declaration on behalf of the political party's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Chukolov has the floor of her Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u85	Thank you. Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I will make a statement yesterday regarding the visit of the Secretary of State of the United States of America to our country, John Carey. The information about this visit first started, said on an ear by the Foreign Minister of Boyko Borisov, then the whole state began to get excited here in Bulgaria, comes the Secretary of State of the United States, something important is coming. What everyone in Sofia saw and understood was that Sofia was blocked, our capital was completely blocked. John Carey was guarded in every way by folk love. On the day yesterday, we, the MPs from Ataka, wanted to go as close as possible to the Council of Ministers, to the Presidency to express our opinion on the policy led by the United States and on the tasks, the objectives of this visit in Bulgaria. We weren't allowed, of course, in the immediate vicinity. How can you limit MPs representing hundreds of thousands of voters, not to mention that the Bulgarian people are also represented by the Constitution?! How, you see, Bulgarian MPs will let them so close to John Carey?! What did we want to tell him? We wanted to tell him that we are against the United States putting pressure on Bulgaria, pressure on shale gas production. Don't be illusioned! Don't be illusioned, I repeat. As it is stated here that there is an embargo, there is a moratorium on shale gas production, so come not within a day, but within a week the Prime Minister may change his mind. A report if you don't believe me. We are against this categorically. This is the US's immense desire to come here with their companies, with their bank, yesterday it was mentioned the name even "Ximbank" to come here, to capture our deposits, and conventional gas, and to use them, naturally, on concession. We're against it. We are against Bulgaria becoming a strike ground against a third country. You know who this third country is. This is Russia. Why did the Secretary of State say that al. 5 of the NATO Treaty is up-to-date, which means that if there is an attack against Bulgaria, the US will respond? Who will strike against Bulgaria, who, what haste, as spoken in a spoken language? Apparently they know we don't know. But this is being prepared, the runway of Bezmer is being extended to the base in southern Bulgaria, naturally for attack against Russia, for some actions against Russia. We are strongly opposed to this, categorically against this! [[Reply on the right.]] We have raised our posters, which say that we are against Bulgaria making an agreement, participating in this Transatlantic trade agreement, which will make it possible for transnational companies to be at state level, a transnational company to be able to sue Bulgaria. As there are examples with other countries, you see, they have decided to raise the minimum wage of the population and a transatlantic company is suing them for this. Sue them because they've allowed themselves something to harm her. The signing of the agreement will lead to this. Not to mention the GMOs that these companies produce will be freely available on the Bulgarian market. Of course we're against it. We built this transparant right over here. [[shows]] I am Bulgarian and I am against the pressure to conclude a trade agreement with the United States. These posters, these pictures of us that were taken yesterday, found no place in any Bulgarian newspaper. Why? Didn't the same American institutions say that there is no freedom of speech in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian newspapers decided to prove it simply by censoring themselves?! What are the media doing in Bulgaria? I look at the morning blocks, I read the papers. With the transfer of the docked vessels Patriotic Front: say something Valeri Simeonov I've been doing this all week. My question is not to the Patriotic Front. I have no questions, they are clear to me. The question I ask from this tribune is to their voters: where were your MPs yesterday, esteemed voters on the Patriotic Front? Why weren't they with us, why weren't they, they're patriots? They see that Bulgaria is colonizing and they are not protesting this! They don't even say a word, I didn't read any order. The answer to this question is also clear to me: they were on the soprata, they are already in power, warm. We forgot those moments when representatives of SKAT TV Simeonov, Velizar Enchev, came to our rallies against NATO bases! Those days are over! They're already in power. I understand from the media how deputy ministers offered by the Patriotic Front are entering the Economic Ministry. It must be very warm and cozy, but it's hardly the same situation with their constituents. Since yesterday's meeting, which John Carey held with the Bulgarian state factors, we have found that four working groups have actually been formed that will work on certain sectors and directions. And the U.S. would send us an energy expert, a specialist of course, a huge specialist. Whose interests will he work for? It is clear about the interests of the United States of America. The real conversations that had to be held yesterday, the real topics that had to be addressed are the following. The Bulgarian state factors should have told John Kerry: Mr. Kerry, your companies are the owners of the TPPs. During the period of Ivan Kostov contracts were concluded which were terribly unfavorable to the Bulgarian state. These contracts have damaged the Bulgarian end-user of electricity for years. The price of electricity is very expensive because of these contracts! Bulgaria is the poorest country in the European Union! Yes, you're not saying we've been a strong democracy, we've been a prosperous European state, you'll be working on it. Let's review these contracts. Let's make it fair to both sides. Is that a question being asked? I highly doubt it. We will ask the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister these questions under parliamentary control under the appropriate procedure. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Was the question raised about the US military bases in Bulgaria, for which since 2006, after a contract by the then Foreign Minister Kalfin, President Parvanov then concluded this treaty, America has not given us a penny? One penny, I'm telling you. Around the world, where the United States of America has bases, they pay and pay serious money. Once again, the poorest country in the European Union, a country that is poorer than some more advanced countries in Africa, again, we so give it, we say: "We do not give you the money, I buy you the money." Why wasn't that question even asked? This dependence, this situation where we look at every visit from abroad to Bulgaria, ultimately does not work for us, does not work for Bulgaria. These were our Euro-Atlantic partners, someone will say. If they're partners, they should be on an equal footing. It should be when we appoint a chief of staff, as we consult with their services, when they appoint a CIA chief, for example, to consult with the SANS. Do they? They don't, of course. You have no doubt that we are partners. It's just that these are some sweet, sounding words that still end up at the expense of our people. For these Euro-Atlantic values, which we stick to for 25 years, each of the most parties in Bulgaria will say: "Yes, we must keep them! We need to be partners with these people! We've been supporting this partnership for 25 years. Come on, let me ask you the question: in 25 years, how many million has the Bulgarian nation decreased from 1989 to this day, following exactly and irrevocably the colonial policy that the United States imposed on us? With two million decreased Bulgaria during this time! Come on, hit the line and pay attention to whether it works for Bulgaria or not. As a Bulgarian patriot of the Party of Ataka, on my behalf, on behalf of colleagues, I tell you that we should respect Christian values, not invented Euro-Atlantic values. These values have preserved us for centuries. And I'm sure they'll keep us in the future. That's my advice to you. This is my request. Follow Christian values and be proud that you are Bulgarians! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. We continue with the next question, which is from the MP Miglena Alexandrova on the policy of the Ministry regarding railway transport. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you have already stopped 38 trains, 81 trains are about to be stopped. You intend to privatize BDZ. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what will be the policy of the government, particularly yours, as Minister of Transport, in relation to rail transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Minister Moskovski, you have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, the development of rail transport is a major priority in our national transport policy as transport with a much less negative impact on the environment. Our efforts are aimed at building modern and interoperable railway infrastructure, stabilizing companies in the sector. With regard to the infrastructure programme for the management of the pro-European reform government it is for a stable development of Bulgaria. It includes priority and accelerated completion of the construction of major infrastructure projects, promoting economic growth and the development of the country's regional, national and international connectivity in railway infrastructure. This emphasis also follows the measures taken in the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology for the development of the railway sector. The major infrastructure projects: reconstruction and electrification of the railway section Dimitrovgrad, Svilengrad, part of Plovdiv line Svilengrad, Turkish border; rehabilitation of the railway infrastructure in the sections of Plovdiv railway line Burgas; modernization of the railway section Septemvri Plovdiv; reconstruction of Burgas railway station, Sofia railway station. An active preparation of the programme period 2014-2020 is held. The new Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" provides funds of 673 million. EUR to finance railway infrastructure from the Cohesion Fund plus national budget and European Regional Development Fund. The priority is the complete completion of the Burgas railway line and the modernization of the section Sofia "September Elin Pelin," i.e. the entire corridor from the Turkish-Greek border in Plovdiv "September," to Sofia. Respectfully, if we succeed according to "Kunecting Jurp facilitii" "Dragoman," and Burgas "Plovdiv" Sofia, as well. Bulgaria will have about 350 million more. EUR under the Connected Europe instrument, which is precisely what I said "Kunecting Europe facilititi" which is planned to be invested in the modernization of the railways Vidin "Medkovets" and Sofia The planned projects are for building terminals in Plovdiv and Ruse. A grant contract has been concluded for the terminal in Plovdiv. The terminal in Ruse is subject to preparatory procedures. The implementation of the metro extension project in Sofia is important from the point of view of the intermodality of the passengers: Tsarigradsko shose Airport Sofia The final stage of implementation is the construction of the third metropolitan line 2014 - 2020 г. As further information to say that the Operational Programme has already been approved by Brussels, so that within maybe a month or two the implementation can be launched as well. With regard to the stabilisation of companies in the sector, measures are implemented, respectively to improve their financial and technical situation. We are continuing the dialogue with creditors in Holding, BDZ, until a mutually beneficial agreement is reached. I've informed you of the Transport Commission. The debts are 565 million to date. We are continuing the procedure for notification of State aid to Holding BDZ. For this purpose, a new restructuring and rescue plan for the group of companies in Holding BDZ is needed, providing funding for Holding BDZs in the framework of the budgetary framework 2015-2017, as a particularly large shortage of funds emerged for the period 2015-2017, when basically the maturity of the company's liabilities comes. There will be a gradual renewal of the rolling stock of the Bulgarian Railway Transport Company, which in most part does not meet the modern requirements and standards of quality. There are also considered options for restarting the Privatization procedure of BDZ Cargo, for transferring travel services to the structure of the NRIC. Of course, that's an option. There is a need for legislative initiatives in order to improve the financial performance of the company and to be able to use European funds for the renewal of the railway and train park, along with the repair of the railway road. This is part of the question that you asked me during the Committee on Transport. Since Holding is with very poor financial indicators, it will not be approved for obtaining European funds, namely, if we can transfer them to NRIC, they have better financial indicators, and theoretically we could get European funds to finance the purchase of rolling stock. In addition to the two main points in our policy on the development of rail transport related to the construction of railway infrastructure and the stabilisation of companies in the sector, a number of horizontal activities, which are also extremely important for the functioning of the Bulgarian Railways, are also implemented. These are measures related to improving safety and security, improving the quality of services offered, increasing the professional and administrative capacity of those working in the system. We have directed our efforts to preserve and revive the traditional for our conditions and economy rail transport, we are making a lot of efforts so far, but many more to come so that we can bring the railways to a level that will put them on a competitive basis with the main modes of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u90	Thank you, dear Minister. Ms. Alexandrova, you have a total of two minutes for two supplementary questions to your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u91	As you told the Transport Commission, I asked you how you would handle the infrastructure charges, because they are one of the main, largest feathers as a cost to BDZ. You are saying that the National Railway Infrastructure and BDZ can be merged into one company. My question to you is: do you guarantee that there will be no more dismissals because this restructuring by BDZ so far has 2,000 people been fired, as far as I know? And my second question is: in all that you said will happen, that funds will be poured into BDZ, at the same time you say that you are considering BDZ Cargo shipments to be privatized. Does this mean that all these funds that will be injected into BDZ will become private, in the sense that BDZ will become private and all this government money that we will pour into BDZ will be a gift to a private person?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Minister Moskovski, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Alexandrova, if we could pour, it would be good! [[Radio.]] To date, the State does not have a mechanism by which it can finance BDZ Cargo. They're a trading company. They develop on a purely market basis and the state has absolutely no mechanism to support freight transport, whether by reducing charges or so on. If you have bothered to follow the chronology of liberalisation of this market, you will come to the conclusion that governments, outside the government of GERB, have distributed eight licenses for the operation of operators in freight transport and there are actually eight operators in Bulgaria who compete on an equal basis with the state company. Whether it's right or wrong, let's sue the people, people or industry organizations, I can't say. Both in the post office and in the railway after 2002 began a period of uncontrolled liberalisation, which, in my opinion, caused lasting damage. In this case, we are looking for a buyer for Cargo shipments because we have no choice. The company has 109 million debts and realised operational losses. In our previous term, we were able to bring them down to 3 million operational losses per year, we are currently finding them at over 15. The market is also segmented inappropriately and poorly. A supplier holds about 40% of the cargo, respectively this same supplier owes a large amount, so there rather, give, God, someone to find as an investor to buy it. The claims that a very valuable asset is being sold absolutely do not correspond to the truth, because if it did, there would be a queue of willing ones, and there is none. Absolutely no one willing will buy them. I sincerely hope to find one. If you don't find it, the situation gets worse and worse. The situation in which they are placed gives them absolutely no mechanism in which to become neither more competitive nor the state to intervene there is prohibited. The question is not correct to you...... whether the state will pour something, and some private will take advantage of it? There is a reason so far as, if the State fails to collect the claims owed to it there in that undertaking, then it can hypothetically be assumed that someone would benefit. In the end, there are legal procedures that would find this debtor able to pay off the company that is state-owned. But it's purely commercial, and there's no way the state can help her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Alexandrova, if you'd like to express your attitude regarding the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you didn't answer my question: will there be more fired from BDZ first? What I wanted to tell you is that BDZ, as I told you in the Commission, is a key factor in our national security. There is no country in the European Union with private railways. Besides, there are no losing cargo transports in the world. There is no railroad in the world that is not dominated by the state. There isn't one! It is strongly opposed to the privatisation of BDZ Cargo, the suspension of trains and the closure of lines. According to us, from the National Company "Ataka" the National Company "Railway Infrastructure" and BDZ "Cargo Transport" and the other sectors of BDZ must be one company and be state-owned. It is necessary to merge into a single company and to be state-owned. Privatization would be a crime to us. With this move will deliberately destroy the entire state-owned company. The privatization actions against BDZ have been launched since the beginning of 1990. The Bulgarian Railway has been scattered purposefully and planned. This is a product of the rule of all governments so far. However, an economy without rail transport cannot have, and if you want to have an economy, we must also have rail transport. If Bulgaria wants to be a high-tech state, it must allocate sufficient resources for its railway. It must each year be planned to support it, while BDZ Cargo is a profitable undertaking because BDZ Cargo was a profitable undertaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u96	Never.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u97	So how is it ever gonna be? That's not true! In addition, you are talking about an investment strategy that would possibly help obtain funds from the Operational Programme. Every student at the Technical University at the Transport Faculty will tell you that a strategy for 6 years for the railways is not done. It's done for 25 years. This is a very complex structure and to reflect one thing, whatever it is as a new breed, it must take tens of years. It's done for 25 years. Only one idea will I give you to earn money from BDZ Cargo. How can he start making some money because you think he's a loser? Turkish trucks passing through Bulgaria can be transported by trains. That way they won't destroy the valuable Vam Highways, except they'll make money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The next question is from the MP Christian Vigenin about inappropriate changes in the transport scheme for public transport for Blagoevgrad district. Please, Mr. Vigenin, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Moskovski! I kind of got all the questions I asked today. The reason for this question is the same, which was the reason for the questioning of colleague Atanas Stoyanov. I guess the answer will be pretty much the same. There must have been a way to unite them somehow, but anyway, it's better to answer something twice than not answer it once. A repeat is a mother of knowledge. By its order of July 2014, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications introduced changes to the Republican Transport Scheme in which the conditions and arrangements for carrying out passenger transport in Blagoevgrad region have changed significantly. The key change is the mass removal of intermediate stops for buses travelling from and to Sofia, from and to more remote municipalities and settlements in the district. The result of the new transport scheme caused mass discontent, in the first place, in citizens whose choice and opportunities for movement are limited significantly, to the greatest extent to those travelling from Sofia to Blagoevgrad and from Blagoevgrad to the other municipal centers in the district. Over 10,000 signatures have been submitted to the Ministry. citizens who want a revision of the changes imposed. Objection was also sent by five municipalities from the district. In addition, the changes significantly limit the possibilities of smaller carriers in favour of one or two large carriers, which in itself restrict competition and in the near future will lead to bankruptcy or contraction of the business, loss of jobs and monopolision of the sector in the area. I would like to ask, in your capacity as minister, are you ready, taking into account public moods, to immediately revise at least those elements of the order that cause the greatest discontent, and to enter into direct dialogue with municipal guides, carriers and citizens to find working solutions as soon as possible? Secondly, will you initiate changes in the legal framework that provide for a decision of this nature to be made necessarily preceded by an open and transparent consultation process which takes the utmost account of the interests of all the parties concerned, not only of the carriers and, above all, of the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Minister Moskovski, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, I really do not find the point to read the answer that my colleagues have prepared for me because it coincides exclusively with what I have read to your colleague. I'll repeat what I said before. In order to balance the interests for the benefit of citizens, the Republican, regional and municipal transport scheme agreed with the industry must be adapted simultaneously. I repeat, I am ready to have a conversation with absolutely all the participants in this process. At the moment, however, these things have been made public and have been sufficiently transparent. Anyone could have made their offer. As a leading ministry, we will try to be as balanced as possible in making any decisions concerning this. In addition to adapting these schedules, note that we are obliged to take into account the specific case and other modes of transport, rail and so on. I hope you understand that this is a task that is not entirely up to us. We may be leading this initiative, we do it, we will continue to do it. Please, let all interested in this case be ordered. We will pay due attention to them, we will have this debate and we will try to find the best solution. In this case we have, again I say, a huge problem with not the unanimous opinion and solution of the industry, as they have a very different task than ours. They pursue their business interest in carrying out the transport service. That's where the thread breaks. Even if we adapt them with the Republican, Regional and Municipal Transport Scheme and balance them out, the industry disagrees. So I'm going to ask you for your cooperation. We're ready. We will make these meetings and talks to find an optimal solution in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Moskovsky. I mean, because in the answer before, you mentioned that there are similar problems elsewhere, yes, it is possible, but in Blagoevgrad the problems are particularly severe. Therefore, please make a specific and personal commitment to resolve these issues quickly. Since our questions have been asked a long time ago, they only come out now. Meanwhile, I had a meeting with the governor Mr. Mihailov. I understand that he has the ambition and the desire to help solve problems quickly too. Such support and interaction between a regional governor and a minister will be important. I believe that colleagues from other political forces in our area are also willing to cooperate and help to seek such a compromise. When there are conflicting interests, and this is inevitable in a democracy and in a market economy, I nevertheless consider putting citizens' interests first and seeking the necessary compromises. It is true that there are similar attempts, at least for consultations, before signing this order. Either way, it's a fact that there's such discontent. This indicates that the intersection of interest has not been found. It takes extra effort in this direction. Otherwise, of course, there will be different opinions. You well know that there are programs, mathematical models that can help make the decision not only on the basis of subjective proposals and assumptions, but on the basis of specific data, so that citizens in the field, transporter companies and respectively municipal guides are sure that from now on the decision will be adequate. However, I would like to say that you have not answered the question clearly, are you, after all, ready to have some elements of this order revised immediately until further consultation on these issues is undertaken? [[Mister Ivaylo Moskovski nodded affirmatively with his head.]] Because several solutions, although not so severe, can greatly alleviate and eliminate this discontent, especially for people who, after five or six hours, cannot move between municipal centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Minister Moskovski, you have the floor for the doppelganger. You won't take advantage. Dear colleagues, it's time to rest. I'm calling a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 12.05 with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u105	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. There is a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov concerning the construction of a third bridge over the river Here you are, Mr. Haytov, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to formulate my question, which is relatively short, to assure the residents of the Northwest and Vratsa region, and I wish you would do it here, from this high tribune, that you will not remain a citizen in the municipalities of Krivodol, Vratsa, Mezdra, Roman, who will not be served as before by rail transport in the Republic of Bulgaria. Get to the point. Dear Minister, my question is this: at what stage is the preparation for the construction of a third bridge over the Danube River in its Bulgarian section? Is there a project or action on pre-project research? Are there signed or are any documents prepared for signature on this matter between Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania? What are the possibilities for such a bridge to be designed and built between the cities of Oryahovo and Beckett?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Moskovski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, considering opportunities for new bridge crossings of the Danube River in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is part of the priorities of the transport policy of the country, among which is the integrated development within the European Union. In implementation of these priorities on 28 November 2014, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Public Administration of Romania signed a Memorandum of Understanding for carrying out studies to build new bridge facilities on the Danube River. In the Memorandum, priority is given to the road bridges at Nikopol "Turnu Mugurele and Silistra" Kalaras. To achieve the objectives of the Memorandum will work a mixed Bulgarian-Romanian working group, which should coordinate the activities of preparation of the two projects for the construction of bridges over the Danube River. The funding of these preparatory activities is envisaged to be provided by the Cross-border Cooperation Programme "Bulgaria" "Romania 2014-2020" and after the finalisation of the preparation, sources of funding for the same construction will be sought. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Haytov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u110	Thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, however, the content does not satisfy me. It is clear that you cannot single-handedly change existing agreements, but I am sure and convinced that you will make sure that there are investments in this region both to restore existing railway trains that serve the citizens and for the necessary repair and renovation of all railway stations in this region of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Moskovski, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Haytov, about the subject, as has been specified, I am using the opportunity in the duplicate because I will also tell from our previous mandate what I am familiar with as the topic of a bridge facility between Oryahovo and Beckett. There have been pre-project analyses that have shown the fact that we, as a state, will provide an opportunity if there is a private initiative, a desire by private investors, to build more than two bridge facilities that are currently available. There are certainly cities along the Danube River in Europe, which only as cities have more than five or six bridges. We are two countries, of course, that this is insufficient, of course it is desirable and good for both citizens of the two countries, and for transit traffic to have more and for Oryahovo "Beckett, of course, we will provide everything that is necessary as assistance and a state. As an investment we do not have the opportunity to implement such a facility at the moment. We can look for opportunities if it enters as part of the memorandums between the two countries. Specifically about the Oryahovo case, Beckett, what I am familiar with from these pre-project analyses, is that the bridge facility itself is not the biggest theme and the biggest obstacle. It could be built on a public-private partnership, a private initiative. The problem is more in the infrastructure and it is on the Bulgarian side, because the part concerning this infrastructure in Oryahovo is a slope that requires a very large investment. There is largely a landslide and its operational connectivity with a bridge of this infrastructure, as far as our specialists have informed me, would cost hundreds of millions. Of course, it depends on the project, it could reach a billion. This is the obstacle that also stops private intentions if we assume that there are. Just the investment to be made for the adjoining infrastructure on the Bulgarian side of Oryahovo is very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u113	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last question asked to Minister Moskovski, and he is from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov on a decision of the Bulgarian State Railways (Bulgarian Railways) for the initial stop of 38 trains. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, for a statement of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u114	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, you cannot disagree with me that the decision of the Bulgarian State Railways (Bulgarian State Railways) to start a reform with the initial stop of 38 trains caused severe public discontent in dozens of municipalities and many settlements. It is absolutely unacceptable not only the decision but also the way in which its implementation began. Trains were stopped without preparation of any alternative solutions. There was also no attitude for people to do to solve their daily problems and to realize their way of life. There's a strike and a protest in Mezdra right now. People came from Vidin, Montana, Brusartsi, Boychinovtsi, Krivodol, Belly Spring, Vratsa and Mezdra. There is no political hand to carry out such an organization. Tomorrow is the protest in Gorna Oryahovitsa. You yesterday and the prime minister of blitz-control on Wednesday made a number of commitments to make decisions to correct the situation. Today you made a commitment to some national transport scheme to discuss optimizing solutions. My question at the moment, which will be heard by the people coming out of the Mezdra protest, is: after the Transport Commission meeting, after your dialogue, which I hope took place with the Minister of Finance, and consultations with your specialists in the case of declared desire to stop further 98 train stops, what do we do with the 38 stopped trains to solve people's problems while optimizing the reform? It's a specific question. They're leaving Mezdra now and they want to hear on the way to Vidin and the direction of what you're going to answer them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. For an answer, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, in fulfillment of the commitments of the Bulgarian Railway Transport Company, as a contractor under the Public Transport Service Contract, we inform you that the timetable for the movement of trains, which entered into force on 14 December, has been developed in full volume and parameters. It is intended to carry out transports through 72 fast, 364 suburban, 145 passenger or total 581 trains, which require compensation from the state budget of 184 million. In the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 the planned compensation for the operation of transport services and rail transport amounted to 140 million, namely 44 million less. In order to compensate for the reduced amount of the planned funds and to prevent the accumulation of losses, the company of BDZ Passenger Transport Ltd is forced to take a number of unpopular measures, including the cancellation of the movement of certain fast and passenger trains along the whole route or part of it. The amendments to the train traffic schedule take into account the availability of alternative transport and the closure of railway lines is not envisaged. The first step of the actions taken to bring the volume of transport, according to the subsidy, was the cancellation of 38 trains on 12 January 2015, and the official information was provided in writing to regional administrations on 5 January. This Decision shall On 14 January 2015, an extraordinary meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications was held in the National Assembly, which discussed and decided on the development of a long-term strategy for rescuing the Bulgarian National Assembly. In this respect, it was recommended that action on the implementation of the measures identified to reduce the volume of transport be suspended at this stage. The BDZ Passenger Transport Ltd will comply with the decision taken and until the final amount of the subsidy is clarified will not take action to reduce the traffic. In the event of the original subsidy being retained, the company will generate at least 44 million losses, which may also lead to the company's bankruptcy or decapitalisation as its own capital is sixty-several million. I allow myself to say that within the time I was here, I had several conversations with Minister Goranov. We have taken a decision, since these 40 million, which are envisaged as targeted capital in a transfer to State aid for the payment of creditors, cannot be used in any case.. they are blocked until Brussels authorises a notification or authorises State aid, they will be transferred to the total amount of the subsidy, so it will become 180 million. BGN, which will actually not impose any more restrictive measures on the part of BDZ, and we will review the actions that have been carried out for the time being. I need to make one clarification. There is a technical impossibility, a prescription for a certain part of rolling stock to be removed from operation, as they are dangerous and do not meet the safety criteria. This is due to the fact that, over the last year, in order to fit into the amount of 140 million subsidy, colleagues have not even performed the minimum health repairs of at least 25 million and the company has respectively an operating loss of 15 million, i.e. I explain to you where the 40 million which do not reach the full amount of the subsidy. So the outstanding repairs in the sanitary minimum now do not allow in full volume to restore the suspended rolling stock. Either way, we were going to stop him, whether or not he had a subsidy because he wasn't renovated. [[The President said that time had run out.]] That's the last thing I can say. There is no meeting in the Finances, because we have specified with the mandate of the Council of Ministers we will transfer the 40 million, which are currently blocked and cannot be presented as State aid to the company because there is no further notification from Brussels about this and will be recovered into the general subsidy, so that BDZ is not going to take further restrictive action to reduce the volume of the railway schedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was extremely important, and that's why I didn't interrupt. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u118	Dear Minister, while I was listening to you, I was thinking how important the minister's live, up-to-date response is, dialogue with the questioner and adequacy of the situation. Because, the first, the written part of the answer, can be summarized as the average temperature of the patients at the hospital, some die, others heal, the average is about the acceptable, but in the final part your answer was very relevant. What do we know? We understand that the commitment made by the Commission, as a result of the debate which has been initiated to find 40 million, is guaranteed one way or another. Secondly, the planned cuts of dozens of trains, which was part of the reform, will not take place at this stage until there is objective optimization. That's two. Thirdly, you say, if I have well understood you that of all 38 trains that are stopped, not all can and must be restored, but what is most necessary, which will satisfy the needs of the people, will be done once you have a guarantee for that 40 million. If I have understood you well, this is a satisfactory solution to this critical problem, created by the launch of a solution that was not sufficiently thought out, was not prepared and people were not prepared. I hope these three steps happen, and if you don't object to what I have summarized, people hear it, the protest tomorrow in Gorna Oryahovitsa will have another nuance and other dimensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. With this, the questions to Minister Moscovici are exhausted. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the responses of Minister Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water. First will ask the people representative Manol Genov about the policy conducted by the Ministry of Environment and Water towards municipalities with built sewage treatment plants. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water towards municipalities with built waste water treatment plants for their management and operation until a contract is concluded with the Association of Water and Regional Operator. Dear Minister, currently in Plovdiv district is about to be put into operation of waste water treatment plants in the municipalities of Rakovski, Krichim and Stamboliiski. They are all issued Act 15, pending activation, i.e. putting into service, after which, within the meaning of the law, they must be transferred to the water operator for operation. In the contracts between municipalities and the contractors of the construction of these waste water treatment plants, there are clauses requiring the contractors to bear the costs of training the staff, after which from the start of the trial operation all costs should be borne by the associated partner, i.e. by the water service provider Plovdiv, as an operator. On the other hand, the water treatment plant has the right to bear the financing of the operating costs of the newly introduced sewage treatment plants only and only in the case of a contract for the provision of the management, maintenance and operation of the water treatment systems and facilities with the Association for Water and Water. In the budgets of municipalities such costs are not laid down, the financing of maintenance activities of the facilities from Act 16 until acceptance into service of the facility is not foreseen. There is also no provision for funds for the Fund of Staff of staff employed in Waste Water Treatment Stations. The difficult situation in the municipalities of co-financing of these projects is known, as well as the lack of opportunity to generate revenue, as they are not an operator within the meaning of the Water Act. In relation to the above, my question to you is as follows: what is the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water with regard to the financing of staff training and maintenance activities in cases where this is not clearly stated in the contract between the contractor and the municipality? Is there an opinion of the managing authority of the OPE to recognise the costs of the municipalities for staff training and the operation of the waste treatment plants until the conclusion of a contract with the operator, or at least six months after the signing of Act 16? How will the costs of municipalities be financed from the issuance of Act 16 until the acceptance of the operation by the water operator? What actions do you intend to take to assist them in cases where such funding is not available?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, on November 28 on a question you asked to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, responsible for the office, in whose competence is the management and development of the water sector, the same questions have been addressed and have been answered in detail at the stages related to the implementation of the water reforms and in particular the relationships between municipalities, water associations and operators as elements of the system for providing water services. As regards the specific issues concerning the Ministry of Environment and Water, whose competence is the management of the Operational Programme "Environment" as a funding body to support the realization of the water reform, to support the policy of local authorities to build and modernise the infrastructure and work of the sector, my answers are as follows. The municipalities quoted by you in Plovdiv district, namely Rakovski, Krichim and Stamboliiski, are implementing projects funded under Procedure 16. According to the call for applications under this procedure, expenditure on training of staff engaged in the operation and maintenance of waste water treatment plants is eligible for funding and included in the budgets of grant contracts concluded under the operational programme. The implementation of this activity shall generally take place within the framework of the contract concluded between the beneficiary and the contractor of the treatment plant. If an explicit clause is laid down in the specific contract between the municipality and the contractor of construction works, which will regulate the taking over of the operating costs for a certain period of time after putting the selected contractor into service, these costs would be reimbursed under the Operational Programme of the Environment. For the municipality of Stamboliiski and the municipality of Krichim, it is indicated as a commitment by the contractor to train the staff involved in the operation of the site, to monitor and control the treatment processes and to maintain the newly built facilities. The municipality of Rakovski has set in its technical assignment the requirement that the engineer of the waste water treatment plant provide training and supervision of the operation of the personnel of the treatment plant for a period of three months prior to the signing of Protocol Model 16 and another six months during the guarantee period. As an associate partner in the implementation of the projects financed under the operational programme, the regional plumbing operator is included. Its role is mainly limited to providing information, technical expertise and capacity to employees and administration in connection with the construction of plumbing and sewerage network, treatment plant and their subsequent operations. In general, the partnership agreements concluded between municipalities and operating undertakings do not treat the commitments made by the regional operator after putting the treatment facility into operation. Taking over the operating costs by the water operator is after the conclusion of a contract between the Association of Water and the operator with which the activities of the provision of the water service and maintenance of the water systems, including the making of financial commitments by the water operator. Seen from the cooperation agreement between "ViK " Ltd. Plovdiv and Stamboliiski Municipality, Stamboliiski Municipality as owner of the built and/or rehabilitated infrastructure under the Water Act will provide it for operation of Plovdiv Municipality as operator under the order of the Water Act after completion of the project and conclusion of a separate contract or agreement. Such a clause is missing in the cooperation agreement between the VKP Plovdiv and the municipality of Krichim. The managing authority of the operational programme is familiar with the case and is in the course of the meetings so far. Seemingly from the data presented by our beneficiaries on the basis of art. 198c of the Water Act was held a meeting of the General Assembly of the Association of Water and Water on 12 December 2014, attended by representatives of 14 municipalities in the region. One of the items on the agenda of the meeting is the decision to give consent by the General Assembly of the Association for the conclusion of agreements for regulatory purposes between the water operator and the following municipalities: Hisarya, Krichim, Stamboliiski and Rakovski. A decision has been adopted by the Chairman of the Association to send a notification to Plovdiv for taking over the management, maintenance and operation of the water facilities and facilities. I can assure you in conclusion that there is a desire of all participants in the process, including municipalities, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Associations of Water and Water as a funding institution to accelerate and successfully implement the process of transfer of ownership and award of the operation of the built facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u123	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you have any further questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! I would be extremely pleased if this tribune had heard us from the mayors of these municipalities, which you and I quoted earlier in our speeches, because they had huge concerns about whether these costs would be verified and recognised by the alternative programme as eligible. It is clear that there were enough misunderstandings in the first programming period of the Operational Programme. I have said it another time from this tribune. It is precisely the unfinished work by many institutions and people over the years of the treatment plant of the municipality of Hissarya that you have said has brought two and three years to the cost of about 200 thousand. lv. annual, which was a burden on the municipal budget, of a municipality that has a million and a half own revenues. My question is as follows: will in the next period of the Operational Programme the Environment, based on the experience and mistakes that we have all made in the previous period, there be sufficient means of training the staff of such less complex facilities as the waste water treatment plants?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an additional answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! Undoubtedly, the rules on eligibility of expenditure applicable to all projects financed under the operational programmes are nationally adopted by Decree 119 of May 2014 and all that is admissible within the meaning of the decree is, of course, recoverable within the meaning of the programme. For the specific cases that we have commented on, as I mentioned, are verified the costs which are explicitly laid down in the contracts between beneficiaries and contractors, and in this sense, I think that the comfort that you expect to be introduced by this tribune is a fact with regard to the municipalities under the Operational Programme. Enough support and care is provided through the funding provided under Operational Programme "Environment". As regards the new programming period, as you know, according to the European Commission's instructions under the requirements laid down in both the Partnership Treaty and in the pre-conditions and in all the communication between the European Commission and the State in the last year and a half, there is an explicit requirement for the European Commission to be the leading and important participant in the implementation of the follow-up projects under the Operational Programme "Environment." Of course, we insist that municipalities be an equally important partner in the realization of these projects, but the Water Associations, as system operators, have their important role as beneficiary. In this sense, technical assistance funds will continue to be provided to all participants in the process in the course of the implementation of the individual projects. Specifically for water operators, technical assistance will be provided to improve administrative capacity and training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u127	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Mr. Genov, you have the opportunity to take an attitude. You'll take advantage, I understand. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u128	I thank you for your reply, Madam Minister, and indeed for the comfort that may be brought to all the current and future beneficiaries of this operational programme and I hope for the other office as well. It is extremely responsible for the implementation of the reform of the water sector, as you know very well that the use of funds for the next period of the operational programme referred to is strictly dependent on the implementation of the reform. I hope that it will come true after years and really always look at the sector with a slightly more special attention. Because it is extremely important for the development of the country. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u129	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova on a decision assessing the possible degree of negative impact in terms of demand and exploration of oil and natural gas within the block of the block. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I have a procedural request to you, as you are currently chairing the question which I am going to ask Minister Vasileva is introduced next week after the election of the cabinet. So right now, that question is two and a half months old. Since we can afford to sit overtime for a budget and other laws, I think we can afford to do so for parliamentary control. I just don't think it's right to put off the questions because some of them are losing their actuality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u131	I hear you, Mrs. Balabanov. This is within the scope of the Conference of Presidents. Please develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u132	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! On 26 August 2014 the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria issued Decision No 28-OS/2014 assessing the likely degree of significant negative impact of a comprehensive and annual work project for 2014 for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas within the Block Ms. Svetlana Zhekova's decision was signed by the Minister of the Service to seek and explore oil and gas on the territory of Block 1-11 Vranino. I remind you that the same block covers an area of nearly 400 km, located in the municipalities of General Toshevo, Kavarna, Balchik and Shabla. In this area are also protected areas, including Lake Durankulak, Kraymorska Dobrudja, Kaliakra and Billo. Mrs. Zhekova concludes that the project of Park Place Energy Corp......... will not have a significant negative impact on the environment...............................the firm's intentions to produce coal gas in the media. In this regard, I ask you to give me an answer as to your position on this decision, and would you, accordingly, propose that it be annulled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u133	And thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u134	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Balabanov, on the occasion of the decision quoted by you, signed by the Minister of Staff Svetlana Zhekova, her hearings were held in plenary on the dates 10 October and 5 November 2014, during which the issues related to the specific decision were discussed in detail. As you know, the procedures carried out relating to the issue of the decision in question to assess the likely degree of significant negative impact on protected areas follow the timetables and statutory deadlines in the Biodiversity Act and the Regulation on the Compatibility Assessment. I recall that the procedure for granting Decision No 28 of the Minister of Environment and Water was carried out only in accordance with the Regulation on the assessment of compatibility with the subject-matter and objectives of the protected areas, since the projects in question at this early stage did not provide for activities subject to an environmental impact assessment or environmental assessment procedure within the meaning of the Environmental Protection Act. Within the limits of Block Parts of the following Natura 2000 protected areas fall: Lake Durankulak and Kraymorska Dobrudzha for conservation of habitats, Billo and Kaliakra for conservation of wild birds. I would like to stress here once again that, at this earliest stage, the regulation does not provide for assessments in the typical range of environmental impact assessment or environmental assessment, but only an assessment of the potential impact on habitats and species in the Natura 2000 sites. And nothing else! In this regard, I believe that the Ministry of Environment and Water, as a competent authority, has carried out an objective assessment. In addition, additional conditions are laid down in the Decision itself, which will ensure a minor impact on protected areas. You know that by decision of the National Assembly of 2012 in our country operates a moratorium with an explicit ban on the application of the technology "Hydravically shattering" in case of exploration or extraction of gas and oil in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this sense, additional conditions expressly regulating requirements for the performance of the activities are laid down in addition to the decision by the minister of the service. As you know, the Minister of Environment and Water's decision is appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. The first hearing is scheduled for February 18th this year. In accordance with art. 166, para. 1 of the Administrative Code of Procedure, the challenge of this decision shall suspend its execution until the final judgment of the court. At present, the case is the subject of consideration by the competent authority of the Bulgarian Court of Justice, and its ruling is pending. In this sense, no on-site activities are being carried out at this time. It is here that I note that if the court finally confirms the decision taken by the Minister and it enters into force, this does not in any way mean that the green light has been given for practical research and drilling. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because all subsequent annual work projects, which are expected to be specific about the research envisaged, as well as projects for the drilling themselves, are again subject not only to an impact assessment on the Natura 2000 site, but also to a procedure under the Environmental Protection Act, which covers all components of the environment and human health. I assure you that the competent environmental authority will not allow formal impact assessments to be carried out and will ensure public participation in the relevant procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I just wanted to let you know that you're two minutes behind schedule. I didn't interrupt you because of the fullness of your answer. Please take your answers into account the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure! Mrs. Balabanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I understand from your answer that you as an institution will do nothing to overturn this criminal decision. Once you stand behind it and agree that the project for gas extraction of the "Park Place Energy Corp" will not have such an impact, yes, you are right, on the habitats of birds in Kraymorska Dobrudzha and Billo, I am interested why then the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters Varna came out recently, on 26 November 2014, with another similar decision that is not under the same project, for a very different company it is, but it concerns the same zones. "Krymorska Dobrudzha and Billo." The regional environmental and water inspection Varna, which is under your hat, comes up with a decision that the exploration and extraction of natural gas on the territory of Dobrich district is likely to have a significant negative impact on those protected areas....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now, that's the solution, I assume you're familiar with it? [[It shows a solution.]] As we all know, and as you yourself said, in Bulgaria, thank God, there is still a moratorium on fracking technology, but there is no moratorium on coal gas. The difference between the decision which the Minister of Service Svetlana Zhekova signed and this decision, which I have just quoted you, from the Regional Inspection in Varna, is right to note that in one decision it is a question of search and study, and in the other it is a question of search and extraction. However, both solutions have drills designed at least 10 thousand. m, and these are new drillings in both projects. They will take place on the territory of Natura 2000 protected areas. Signing a light decision or a more precise decision for companies to pierce Zlatna Dobrudja, the Ministry of Environment and Water commits a crime against the state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking to finish my sentence now that the Minister has had a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u137	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u138	You don't have institutions and experts to do the necessary checking what's going on. A decision is made, the firm raises fences and a chicken can't fly. Come out with an official position, as an institution, I allow myself to deepen the topic a little bit if you are going to cancel the shale gas moratorium. I'm just going to show the people's representation here. I really won't be long. It's an article...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u139	Mrs. Balabanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u140	I'm done. [[Shows pages of newspaper.]] This is an article by Mr. Delyan Dobrev, former Energy Minister, who says that this moratorium should be cancelled. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Ten seconds! It's you on your inauguration, who say you'll be hanging out with the kids. Come out with an official position...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u141	Mrs. Balabanov, I'm really asking you to stop.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u142	...so it doesn't turn out that at the end someone will wash their hands with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u143	Thank you for your reply. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Balabanov, a series of questions have been asked and I can hardly answer them all in the short time I have. First of all, I would like to clarify what has been repeatedly highlighted the need to realise that this is about different procedures that are explicitly laid down in national law. The specific question that you are asking me concerns a procedure relating to the coordination of a comprehensive annual work project for searching and research, and there are procedures relating to the conformity assessment, to compatibility with the So I would like to conclude your comments so that we do not go into detail explaining the steps. I think they are available both on the Ministry's website and in other documents and anyone could get acquainted with the specific steps of the procedure. As I have explicitly pointed out, the specific case implies the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment from the point of view of the full protection for nature and our children. As for your joint comments and the need to present a common position, I do not think that the position could be more convincing than the way in which it was exposed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u145	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to another question from the National Representative Petar Slavov about the construction of a treatment plant in the city. Sozopol with funding under Operational Programme "Environment". You're welcome to develop your question, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question concerns the construction of a treatment plant in one of the centers of Bulgarian Black Sea tourism. It is no secret to anyone that such a functioning there is not yet and the problem is not since yesterday, as we know. The solution of the problem was outlined by Bulgaria's accession to the European Union and the opportunities to benefit from funding under the operational programmes. Unfortunately, however, with the presence of the Oresharski cabinet and its management these operational programs, in particular Operational Programme "Environment" was stopped and accordingly the construction of a treatment plant was stopped. At the same time, however, the lack of such poses serious risks and the tourist season itself, as well as the health of the holidayers, as we can all guess. The problem is also for surrounding settlements, as pollution is not only in the aquatory of Sozopol. On November 14, 2014 during the National Assembly, personally Prime Minister Borisov announced the good news that the operational programs were unblocked by the European Commission, including the Operational Programme. In this regard, Minister, my question to you is this: will the delay in the construction of the treatment plant in Sozopol be caught up? When will it start functioning, will the deep discharge of waste water be finalized, as planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u147	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! I certainly share the concerns that you expressed regarding the delay of the Operational Programme "Environment" and the implementation of the projects under it, caused primarily by the suspension of the programme and other factors. However, I can assure you that both the municipalities, both the managing authority in the Ministry of Environment and Water and all the other institutions involved in the management of the EU funds, are working in an extremely intensive mobilization regime. The aim is to finalise the projects under the Operational Programme as quickly and successfully as possible. I specifically provide you with the following information on your questions. After the selection of a contractor with subject "Designing and construction of a waste water treatment plant "Sozopol" on 19 December 2013, a contract was signed with contractor "Hydrostroy" JSC. At the moment of implementation of the contract, a construction decision has entered into force. An Act, Model 2 was issued on 7 August 2014. All construction works on the contract have been started and are carried out within the prescribed period and scope. According to the contract with the contractor, the execution period shall be 300 days from the signature of the Act, Model 2, and shall be completed on 3 June 2015. According to the latest information from the municipality, the waste water treatment plant of Sozopol will be put into operation by the end of June this year. With regard to the progress of the implementation of the contract with the subject of construction of deep sea discharge of purified water from the waste water treatment plant Sozopol, I inform you as follows. A contract was signed with the contractor "United Sozopol 2013" on 10 July 2014. At the moment of the implementation of the contract, coordination procedures under a parcel plan and work project shall be carried out. In accordance with the updated implementation schedule, it is envisaged that the construction and installation works of the site will start on 5 January, i.e. should already be started, and should be completed on 31 October. The implementation period shall be 11 months from the signature of Act No 2. In the light of the decision of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme, the physical implementation of the construction works must be completed by 31 October 2015, which is fully in line with the requirements of the Operational Programme. On 24 November, I visited the municipality of Sozopol, inspected the work of the sites within the scope of the integrated water cycle project and personally made sure that there was significant progress in the implementation of the project. I mean, I really think that this summer we're going to have operating facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u149	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u150	Thank you. In a nutshell, Madam Minister, I am pleased with your reply and thank you for personally committed to checking the control and implementation of these important facilities for the cleanliness and safety of the resters in Sozopol during the holiday season. I very much hope this season for the first time that the city can meet the tourist season with a working treatment plant and with a solved problem that has been dating perhaps decades. Once again, thank you and appeal to you. Continue with the control and let the performer be controlled and be conscientious to meet the deadlines. If it succeeds even for early June to put the treatment plant into operation, it will be even better, as the season there, you know, starts around mid-May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u151	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of your right to the back of your coat? No. Let's move on to our next question. He is from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov on pollution on the territory of Targovishte Municipality from the combination of the Bulgarian Trakiya voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is focused on one thing that plagues the inhabitants of the city. Targovishte and in particular from the district of Targovishte "Gerren" which is located in close proximity to Trakiya voice and is known by the media as Turkish investor Shishejam. The reason for their anxiety is that at night, usually after 10 o'clock, in the atmospheric air in the city there is a strong smell of sulfur. They say this is entirely because of the combination. There are cases where, in the morning, when they get up and look at their cars, there is a thin layer of reddish orange ash on them, which, according to the people themselves, is from the combine itself. In this regard, I ask you: what actions have been taken, what has been done and have violations been detected? As I am aware that by RIEW - Shumen a check of the combination was carried out and a prescription was given for the construction of an air treatment plant, it is very clear to me that investors in Bulgaria very often like to receive such prescriptions and not implement them post-factum. It's not one or two businesses that do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u153	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. For your answer please come in, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u154	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, in answer to your question, I would like to inform you the following: in the territory of Trakiya voice Bulgaria Targovishte are the exhausting device of a flat glass bath furnace and a release device of 2 van kilns for the production of household glass. For the purification of the formed waste gases to the two exhausting devices are constructed and operated treatment facilities involving an electrofilter for reducing dust emissions and reducing emissions of nitrogen oxides, selective catalytic reduction. The exhaust devices of the van furnaces installed in the flat glass and household glass plants have a system for continuous measurement of emissions of dust, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide. On a monthly basis, the company shall submit to the Regional Environmental Inspection and shall lead to reports on its own continuous measurements drawn up in accordance with the requirements of environmental legislation. On a monthly basis of the reports submitted by the company by RIEW experts, a data analysis shall be carried out and protocols shall be drawn up for each installation. The company shall present in RIEW Shumen and an annual report with the results of its own continuous measurements. Based on the annual and monthly reports submitted in the Regional Inspection for 2013 and 2014, it has been found that the relevant emission limit values for harmful substances have not been exceeded. Other technological equipment with sources of emissions with built treatment facilities is also used on the plant's territory.Search filters and dust treatment facilities are used for the treatment of dust. In accordance with the conditions of the complex permit granted, the company conducts periodic monitoring of these treatment facilities and the results of the monitoring do not show excess emission limit values. In the case of on-the-spot checks carried out by the Regional Inspection on the fulfilment of the conditions of the complex permit, there are no infringements in relation to the operation of the treatment equipment and the regulated emission limit values. Visual contamination and distribution of specific smell in the production site area were also not detected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u155	Thank you. Mr. Alexandrov, will you take advantage of your right to a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, I do not know if it will be possible, but I am going to make you a proposal as to whether these meters of self-control can pass on to remote control or, as with the cash registers, send electronic data directly to RIEW Shumen. And I'll tell you why. Because on 10 November 2014, a 44-year-old man from Targovishte died after falling from 20 metres of glass, and the Labour Inspection found that all the requirements for occupational safety were met in the course of the verification. If all the safety requirements of my work are met, it's a little weird how when you fall 20 meters, there won't be a safety rope, which, given that you carry out construction and repair activities inside the station at this height, wouldn't prevent such an accident. If we come from the same practice, nothing prevents me from thinking that a well-intentioned employee, without blaming anyone, for example, from Shumen, might say: "Well, you know, we will walk to your coven on Tuesday. Because there was also such a problem related to the Forest Agency, which we commented with your colleague, the minister of previous parliamentary control. In order to free society, let us say that the state really thinks more advanced to do so on the basis of remote control, as it is very clear to me that monitoring itself, as well as the exercise of control on the ground, is extremely expensive and is linked to additional costs. I don't think sending electronic data in real time would have much cost. In my opinion, it would even save time for the Agency's employees, especially when it comes to such businesses, because I suppose you are familiar with the size of the plant. These are extremely large enterprises. Perhaps it would be nice to apply it in other places such as the "Aurubis" in Sofia-district and so on. In this way you will also have constant monitoring computer, electronic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u157	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u158	Thank you. Quite briefly on the questions asked. Of course, the comments also concerned cases in the scope of the competences of other departments and other types of issues that arise. As far as environmental and water legislation is concerned, I believe that any proposal that has one representative, including in the direction of improving the legislative framework, is welcome and is a basis for discussions and debates. So I urge you to make your proposal and to discuss it. I can assure you that colleagues in the competent office strictly respect their obligations laid down in legislation and that all checks are carried out with all responsibility for this, taking into account that strict control of large industrial enterprises and all potential pollutants needs to be carried out. In this case you know a complex permit whose conditions are met, on-the-spot checks. According to regional inspection data, by the way, no written signals were received for the period from 2013 to 2014. So perhaps you could also initiate the inspection that you commented on with your participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u159	Thank you, Minister Vasileva. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski on an integrated water project of the city of Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! The integrated water project of the city of Plovdiv phase 1 under Operational Programme "Environment" was submitted for approval in the European Commission in January 2012. The project is extremely important for the municipality of Plovdiv because it plans to replace 14 km of water pipelines, 800 building deviations, 16 km of secondary sewerage network, rehabilitation of 2.8 km of the existing collector 7, construction of a unloading collector 7, and to carry out reconstruction, modernization and completion of a waste water treatment plant. Bulgaria has a commitment to the European Union that all settlements over 200,000 inhabitants will meet the requirements of the European Union for Water and Water. If there is no fulfillment of this requirement, there will be sanctions for Bulgaria. The problem of value added tax for such a project was solved in the mandate of the previous regular government. Dear Minister, my question to you is this: at what stage is the project? Is Plovdiv Municipality signed a contract with the European Commission for this project? What is the reason for delaying the approval of the European Commission? Is Plovdiv Municipality in danger of failing to implement the project and losing European funds, and for what reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u161	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovalyski, the undoubtedly integrated water project for the city of Plovdiv is one of the most significant projects prepared for financing under the Operational Programme of the European Commission. It is one of the four major projects in the water sector, presented for evaluation to the European Commission. The project envisions, as you said, reconstruction and construction of 14 km water supply network, replacement of secondary sewerage network, rehabilitation of the main collector and reconstruction of the waste water treatment plant of Plovdiv. The total value of the project proposal amounts to 142 million. lv. The project was submitted for evaluation to the European Commission in January 2012, and until now the evaluation has not been completed. The main reason, as you have mentioned, is the delay in the final ruling by the European Commission on the project on the unresolved issue of VAT treatment. The Commission expressed doubts as to the eligibility of this expenditure to the Ministry of Environment and Water and, despite attempts by the Ministry to protect the eligibility of VAT in April 2013, the European Commission sent a letter expressing its final position that the expenditure should not be considered eligible under the project. Of course, this, as you mentioned, led to a change of the Water Act in November 2013, where the right to refund VAT from municipalities was regulated, and publication of instructions by the Ministry of Finance in January 2014 on the administration of tax in the water sector. Accordingly, the project proposal has been corrected together with colleagues from the Jaspers Initiative and presented to the European Commission in February 2014. All the time Plovdiv Municipality is an extremely correct partner in the process of processing the project, provides timely assistance by providing the necessary information according to the instructions received by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme. The efforts made by the municipality for the overall successful preparation of the project, including the marketing of project activities and the achievement of full project readiness, should also be noted. After sending the processing to the European Commission, the assessors have asked additional supplementary supplementary supplementary questions concerning the financial part of the project. The Managing Authority has provided the latest clarification in October 2014, awaiting finalisation of the evaluation by the European Commission as soon as possible. The delay in the evaluation of the project proposal leads to the inability to start project activities through 2014 as provided for in the project schedule. There is therefore a risk of a complete failure of the project within the 2007-2013 programming period due to the already too short deadlines. Furthermore, the risks are increased by the refusal of one of the performers who won the implementation of one of the two components of the project to carry out the reconstruction activities of the treatment plant. Currently, the Ministry of Environment and Water is working in cooperation with the European Commission to specify the follow-up. We are making maximum efforts to implement the project by analysing the possibilities for phase-in of the project activities and transferring those of them, which are unlikely to be completed by the end of 2015. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u163	Madam Minister, if you have other essential things, let us in your right to a duplicate so that there is fullness of the answer, but I do not want to violate the established rules. Here's a line for you, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u164	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'm counting on it to get enough information in the back. The one I'm expecting. Unfortunately, however, I cannot be satisfied with the answer because Plovdiv people expect this project to be implemented. As far as I understand from your response, there is a risk that the project will not be realized due to the deadlines and the reasons you have given us. What I have as information on the movement of this project. For three years Plovdiv people have been waiting for it to happen. Last December, the mayor of Plovdiv municipality talked about drilling in Brussels about how far the project has reached and a request for an extension of the deadline for the construction of the treatment plant. This is my additional question: is there such a request and is there an answer received, permission to extend the deadline so that this so important project can be implemented for Plovdiv and Bulgaria? As you said yourself, he is one of the most important for the country, one of the four major projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u165	Mr. Tarnovalysky, I'm paying attention to your right to a line, not to further questions. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u166	My answer will be very brief and it is related to what I mentioned in the final part of my first speech, namely the opportunities that the Ministry of Environment and Water in partnership with the beneficiary is looking for to be implemented as quickly as possible in this important project. As I mentioned, the European Commission is discussing draft phase options that cannot be finalised within this programming period. I couldn't comment on the delay over the past year. It is subject to other comments, but the activities are not started anyway. What could happen is that the project will be phased out and those activities, which have a longer implementation period, will be transferred to the new programming period. As for the priority of the project, it is indisputable. This is the communication that goes in the direction of Brussels and our conversations with colleagues. I think we have a complete understanding of both us and our colleagues from the European Commission that this is one of the important projects that must be implemented and are in line with the logic and principles for providing funding under the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u167	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next issue of today's parliamentary control is a question by MP Philip Popov on the Water Cycle Project of Vidin. People's representative Philip Popov has deposited a request in a timely manner asking that the answer be postponed to another meeting of the National Assembly when there is parliamentary control. The next question is from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov on building permits issued by the Ministry of Investment Design. Here you are to develop your question, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u168	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you mentioned, my question is about issuing a building permit from the already closed Ministry of Investment Design. In Bulgaria, there is no responsible politician, public official or representative of the legislative or executive authority who does not share your problems and concerns about delaying the implementation of large-scale investment projects financed by European funds. At the same time, the self-imbursement of responsibility for this problem to one institution or another would be unfair to society if the allegations were not backed up with concrete facts. Therefore, I would like to receive more detailed information about the reasons for the allegations in your public appearances on 24 November 2014 before the Bulgarian National Radio and in an interview broadcast by Darik Radio on your visit to Pomorie, on the activities of the Ministry of Investment Design, where you claim, I quote: All the projects that have been viewed by this Ministry have been delayed and have not issued building permits. And: The investment design policy has delayed 39 major projects under the Operational Programme "Environment". In this regard, my question to you is: who are these all delayed projects and do not have building permits issued, such as the 39 projects on the Environment and whose delayed implementation is due to the respective Ministry?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u169	Thank you for asking the question. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u170	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, there are undoubtedly concerns and concerns from all of us about the delay in the implementation of large-scale investment projects funded by European funds. I would like to point out from the outset that the specific occasion for the interview that you are quoting is a project related to the construction of an important ecological infrastructure on the Black Sea coast, including the provision of deep water discharge of waste water required within the meaning of European legislation and specifically as a national priority in relation to the opportunities for development of tourism and local activities in the region. The specific occasion was a delay in the order of 9 months, as I recall, for the proceeding of the files relating to the issuance of the building permit. Citing myself, I would like to draw attention to the fact that my comments concern large projects - large projects - over 10 million. BGN, which was covered by the Ministry of Investment Design. The National Assembly's decision on the structure of the Council of Ministers, which was proposed by Mr. Plamen Oresharski, establishing the Ministry of Investment Design, was adopted on 29 May 2013. Two months later the amendments to the Law on Construction of the Area were adopted, which distributed the powers between the Minister of Regional Development and the Minister of Investment Design. The Law was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 26 July 2013. My criticism concerns the existence of this office. You have certainly been part of it and I have no comments to the expertise, to the qualities and professionalism of the people who worked there, to the experts and administration in this Ministry. The formation of the Ministry of Investment Design has in itself led to a delay in the investment process and I think this is a fact for all major projects, including those implemented under the Operational Programme. The amendments to the Law on Construction in the territory of July 2013 gave the Minister, as I mentioned, the power to manage the processes, to issue permits relating to projects exceeding a financial volume of 10 million. lv. In this way, the powers of the local authorities were also seized. Over 80 laws and regulations have been adopted. It also took time. In the first three months of its operation the Ministry of Investment Design had as its first and main commitments the conduct of auctions, repairs, purchase of furniture and holding meetings. This in no way helped and accelerated the administrative process. In addition to what has been said so far, or rather in summary, I would say that the account leads to the fact that the actual delay in the entire investment process amounts to nearly six months. This is therefore one of the factors that contributed to the delay of projects under the Operational Programme "Environment". 79 major infrastructure projects in the sector are implemented under the Operational Programme "Environment" - Water and 20 in the sector - Wastes - extremely important for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u171	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u172	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are concerned about the implementation of all projects on the Environment. I'll leave you with a reference. I suppose you've bothered to get it for all of the former Ministry's projects to issue building permits to get more detailed with this reference. And with regard to your comments on deep water discharge, I must point out that despite its value of over 10 million and under the provisions of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Internal Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, this site was not of the competence of the Ministry of Investment Design. It is very important that when we make statements, especially on electronic media, we do not mislead the public with misleading information. Like any new Ministry, it is naturally important to build a team at the beginning and as part of this team I can claim that there has been no project that has been entertained. A construction permit has been issued for each of the projects. [[Presents written material to the chairman of the meeting.. a reference intended for the Minister of Environment and Water.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u173	Thank you. I'll pass it on to Minister Vasileva. Will you take advantage of your right to dodge, Madam Minister? Here you go. [[The President Yavor Haytov forwarded the reference to Minister Vassileva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u174	I thank you for the clarification you have made. In my opinion, it may be necessary to add to the six months that I roughly calculated, and these days and months that took up the municipalities, public investors, in order to actually understand what documents should be submitted to this Ministry, in what volume the documentation should be, how the files are handled, how the decisions are issued. In fact, during the period of existence of this office it never became clear. There has been confusion, there has been further delay and this has undoubtedly affected the investment process. I am pleased that with the decision to form the next government, such an office is no longer included in the structure of the Council of Ministers, because undoubtedly the functions associated with investment design are actual functions that are performed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for much shorter periods and without delaying procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u175	Madam Minister, as an act of goodwill, I allow myself to give you this material left by the National Representative Ibryamov. Written response from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev. We move on to the last question provided in today's parliamentary control to Minister Vasileva. He is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on upcoming coal gasification and fracking in the area of General Toshevo. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u176	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! At the beginning of December 2014, a citizens' initiative against exploration and extraction of shale gas, led by Mrs. Cynthia Nedyalkova, presented that coal gasification and fracking in the area of General Toshevo is to be carried out. According to citizens referring to official information from the local authorities, it is expected that in the coming years at least ten drillings will take place near the villages of Rogozina, Kalina, Cherno-Okovo, Rogozina-Iztok. According to the publicly announced investment proposal, the concession will be given for 35 years, with the possibility of extension, and it is planned that drilling will be tilted, which leads to the conclusion that the drilling will go sideways and beyond the range of the site, i.e. under the fields of people and even under their houses. According to experts, coal layers subject to this drilling are sunk or underwater on an underground lake, which feeds and water supplies all of Dobrudja, which means, Madam Minister, that coal gas will be produced at 2700 m depths, and the ways of doing so are only two: coal gasification, or more simply: coal burning, or fracking, and usually both methods are in combination. It is known that at the end of November you issued a decision to carry out an environmental impact assessment, but the citizens of these settlements have very serious doubts about the objectivity of the report that we expect, and I therefore have the following questions to you: First of all, what guarantee does your ministry make that water will not be permanently contaminated? Secondly, the investment proposal states that the company employed will use the available road infrastructure and will not make a new one, but what will happen to the roads that are already in a miserable state in this area when heavy trucks with equipment and chemical tanks start on them? Let me draw attention to you that the company in question claims that waste water will be disposed of in treatment plants, but with full reason the Dobrudja residents fear that the upcoming concession is a cover for shale gas drilling which will have a detrimental impact on the environment, so I ask you to clarify what this is about and, above all, to hear your opinion on this issue and, of course, on the environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u177	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for a response within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, on your particular question for a guarantee by the Ministry, I inform you that the question you are asking is related to the decision, and you mentioned, issued in 2014 by the Director of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in Varna, with which an environmental impact assessment is to be carried out and an assessment of the compatibility of the investment proposal concerning the development and utilisation of the locality of Spassovo, part of the block of Dobrich, including four sections of Rogozina, Chernookovo, Kalina and Rogozina East, for the extraction of natural gas on the territory of Dobrich district. This is a decision of the Regional Inspection which, as I said, suggests that it is necessary to follow the procedure. The investment proposal submitted shall be subject to a detailed assessment. An environmental impact assessment report, including an assessment report on the extent of the impact on protected areas, is to be prepared. The reports will assess the potential impact of the investment proposal on all components and factors of the environment, habitats and species subject to conservation in protected areas, including risk assessment for human health. After approval by the competent authority of the environmental impact assessment report and the compatibility assessment, public access to such documentation will be provided. The contracting authority should organise a public discussion of the EIA report in the municipalities and town halls concerned, which will provide all interested parties with at least 30 days of access to the documentation. On the objections received, opinions and comments from the public consultation conducted, the contracting authority should draw up an opinion to provide the competent authority and the public concerned. In the event that another alternative is proposed as a result of the public consultation for the implementation of the investment proposal, the contracting authority should assign complementary reports and organise again a public discussion of the documentation and prior to that provide 30 days of public access. Where a decision is reached, the Director of the Regional Inspection as a competent authority must take a decision on the basis not only of the EIA documentation, but also taking into account all the opinions, objections, observations and others submitted during the EIA procedure, including the results of public access to the documentation and public discussions. Environmental legislation, through the EIA procedure, ensures not only a thorough assessment of the impact of the investment proposal on environmental and human health components, but also public participation at each stage of the procedure and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u179	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Enchev, will you take advantage of your right to a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u180	Madam Minister, obviously, we all know this when the report on environmental impact assessment is ready, it must undergo public consultation for a short period of time and, as has happened so far, and in most cases, this short period is insufficient, as the announcement itself is very difficult to reach citizens. However, I hope that you personally as a minister and as an office will ensure that the deadline will be long enough first. Secondly, if public opinion is formed after public discussion, which is strongly against the project, and public opinion, supported by both citizens and ecologists, farmers, agricultural cooperatives, tenants, who also have very large reservations about these studies, I hope that you will guarantee transparency of the procedure and, ultimately, why not review and revision of the decision already taken. However, let's not forget, Minister, that the land and water of the granary of Bulgaria are in question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u181	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Enchev, of course, that the main part of the tasks related to the competences of this office and the requirements within the meaning of the law are the provision to the maximum extent of full transparency and consideration of the opinions, opinions, positions of all parties concerned. This is the spirit and principle of environmental legislation and, in this sense, absolute guarantees that our main policy is precisely that of accessing information, transparency and addressing all issues, concerns of citizens and the public, so that, in this sense, absolute guarantees that these procedures will be fully in line with legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u183	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Thus, the questions envisaged for today's parliamentary control to Minister Vasileva are exhausted. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to responses from Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin "Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy." He will be asked by the people representative Boris Yachev about the renewal of the activities of the projects providing opportunities for people with disabilities to provide access to services in the home environment under the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to stress that my question was asked at the beginning of December 2014, when there was still greater ambiguity about the future of the project Thousands of disabled people can be left without personal assistants and their fate is unclear. At this stage, there is no clarity as to whether the activity under this programme will be renewed for the next programming period from 2015, which puts municipalities in no way to take effective measures to address the problems of people in need of additional care. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: is there funding provided for the renewal of the activity of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" or other programme in this direction with beneficiaries municipalities? What is the view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure the care of the users of these programmes if the programmes are not financially secured and do not continue to operate? In case of renewal the activities of the projects under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" or other programme with beneficiaries municipalities, do you intend to ease the conditions on which it is applied, as the conditions are currently severe and practically do not allow for more flexible and effective implementation of the programme? I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that the private assistant programmes, the help in the home, the alternative, the support for employment, serve sick, elderly people living alone in the territory of the municipalities concerned, including in smaller and remote settlements that provide not only accessible and quality care but also help raise the employment of the region concerned. Again, I add that the question was asked at a time when there was still no clarity about the future of the programme, but what you will give as an answer will be important. I have further questions that I'll be developing in a moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u185	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, thank you for this question. Although because of the fact that there was a parliamentary holiday around the holidays, it slowed down, but I think I will shed useful clarity for the Bulgarian citizens on it. Specially for personal assistants, which was one of the successful measures in the previous programme period of the Human Resources Development Programme, there are planned funds for the renewal of this programme. They will work with European funds in April. But a month ago April, as you mentioned, at the end of December the contracts of those people who receive payment under this programme expire, the Council of Ministers adopted a decree. This happened this week on Wednesday, which enabled and by today the municipalities can renew the contracts so that by April people with disabilities do not receive interruptions in receiving the service and it can continue. In addition to European funds, there is a similar programme with national funds being implemented. It can also be renewed this week after the National Employment Action Plan has been adopted. Regarding whether the criteria that you mention will be changed, yes, there is some change in them. You understand that with a limited resource, we target people who have the lowest incomes and the most need. There is therefore some correction in this direction. I think it will not lead to significant changes in the beneficiaries of this aid. In general, for the comprehensive measures, as additional measures under the European Social Fund and in particular under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" for the coming years, I would like to tell you that yesterday the new programme was officially launched in Bulgaria at a major event in Plovdiv with representatives of the European Commission. The first measures on the employment axis are already working. For social inclusion 658 million were allocated. lv. In March, all projects that could be launched and applied for in the first two years will be specified. Generally, the funds we provide for disabled people exceed those from the previous year. I hope that the services for citizens will be better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u187	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yachev. You are entitled to two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u188	First of all, to express satisfaction with the rapid reaction of the Ministry and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin, because a proposal was made very quickly and a decision was made to release 13 million. lv. from the Ministry's budget so as not to interrupt the implementation of the programme. As far as I have information, this money has already been made through the Agency for Social Assistance at the regional branches of the area. The activities of the programme continue. Minister, you said 658 million. lv. are intended for social inclusion. How much is the increase? I understand that 60% of the funds under the operational programme for the new programming period are intended for employment and 31% are for combating poverty and promoting social inclusion. How much million has been increased for the next programming period the amount under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development"? Question two. You're talking about easing the application regime, the application criteria. I heard that basically the criterion would be the low incomes again, the yield. Do you see any other criteria, as municipalities complain that the criteria so set currently limit their flexibility with regard to the inclusion of a larger number of people in the programme itself? The other problem is that during the implementation of the program happens that part of the consumers because they are people with diseases, some of them have died during the implementation of the program, and it is very difficult to replace them with new users. The procedure is extremely clumsy. That's one of my extra questions. Will there be another change in the criteria and how much has the funds been increased for the new programming period compared to the period 2007 - 2013? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u189	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. I'll give you one by one before that. The funds under the Operational Programme are part of the European Social Fund. The funds for Bulgaria for this programming period from the European Social Fund are increased by 30%. Not everyone goes to the Human Resources Development Program. The increase in the programme is about 20% overall, and the funds are allocated in it: to promote employment, 1 April " 60% of the funds; and to social inclusion and combating poverty " 40% of the funds. With regard to the criteria. It's not about easing the criteria. It's about their clarification. As much as we are willing to increase and provide additional resources, we need to be clear that we do not have the opportunity to provide assistants everywhere for people with disabilities. Currently under the European Programme, 12 500 personal assistants are taking care of 13 700 people. This is the contingent of Bulgarian citizens who receive this help. The requirements to be introduced for the new period are two types. Under the National Programme, the income of a member of the household of the beneficiaries must not exceed five times the guaranteed social income. With regard to the employed personal assistants. They must meet the conditions for granting social benefits. These are the criteria, indeed, to direct the aid precisely to those who need the lowest income and to enable people who really need employment. Of course, they must also meet appropriate conditions to be personal assistants. Let's see how the program starts with this clarification. I hope this will give more opportunity to people who really need such assistance. When it starts working, in two or three months we will be able to evaluate and see how it affects the scope of the program. I think this will be positive, but we'll be able to follow the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u191	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For attitude the public representative Boris Yachev, up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u192	And I thank Mr. Kalfin. One supplementary question: it did not become clear at the moment whether the municipalities can now apply for this programme, i.e. whether the procedure has been opened...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u193	Please stop time! There is no possibility of a subsequent supplementary question. You have the right to express your attitude to the answers. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u194	In April, when the programme is launched, Deputy Prime Minister, we will talk again about whether these criteria, which will be clear at the moment and most likely by April, are sufficiently flexible and effective and whether any change in terms of them is necessary again. I am personally satisfied with the extremely timely and rapid response of the ministry, which did not really allow for the interruption of the implementation of the programme. She's very important. I suppose that these nearly 13,000 people who benefit from this programme in Bulgaria are satisfied. I wish, perhaps in a later period, a little more money could be negotiated. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u195	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. [[Deputy Prime Minister Ivailo Kalfin wants the floor to make an addition.]] You have no right. You can invite the people's representative to a personal meeting to explain an addition. With this, the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin are exhausted. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Honourable Members of Parliament, I am announcing that today's parliamentary review will continue until 2:18 p.m. We move on to answers from Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Minister Pavlova will answer the first question, which is from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin, concerning the construction of Lot 4 of the highway of Struma. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, honourable Members, I am afraid that the actuality of the matter is no longer such. It is set at the beginning of November. Of course, it is not Mrs. Pavlova's fault that he is only going out today, but I think it would be good to bring some clarity to what is going on with Lot 4 at Struma Motorway, as the caretaker government had undertaken a procedure to terminate the contract with the contractor and possibly announce a new tender. Meanwhile, there was a position of the company itself, after which there was an application that a meeting was held, a working group was established to ensure that the implementation would continue within the agreed deadlines. In any case, the problem for citizens in the area remains, especially in the area of Petrich and Sandanski. The impact on the prospects of the two municipalities is strong. I ask this question, not to blame anyone, but still the auctions were actually held at the time when the current president was a minister. Mrs. Pavlova started the construction in her previous term, now has a unique chance to finish successfully, we hope, the work on it. Not to dwell on the details of the matter as I have asked it, because I think it is no longer so relevant, but I would like you to clarify, Mrs. Pavlova, what is happening right now. I also ask the question because in recent weeks there has also been activity on your part in the Blagoevgrad region in December, commented a lot on the other lotts of the highway, but whether or not it was deliberately missing what was happening with Lot 4. Therefore, I suggest that you use this opportunity, as they say, to calm down or to bring further concerns to the citizens of the area, especially those living in the area of Sandanski and Petrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, definitely the theme of the completion of the highway "Struma" in its entirety has always been and will be a priority because this is a very important transport corridor and our efforts are aimed precisely at completing the construction of Lot 2 from Dupnitsa to Blagoevgrad, where there are considerable volumes of works to be completed, as well as the completion of the relatively smaller but not less complex section, namely the section from Sandanski to the Tower. Its length is only 15 km, but also includes a 5-km shift of the railway line, which complicates and costs the project. As you rightly pointed out, the contract with this contractor was concluded in April 2012 worth 67 million and its term was two years. Unfortunately, within these two years or within the initial deadline, namely March 2014, this project has not been completed. Not only is it not finished, but there is also a significant delay in the implementation of all activities and measures. Several times, within the previous government, the construction of the site has been extended and, nevertheless, to date, its implementation is only 56%. The efforts we have made within and on November and December to hold a number of meetings in order to identify what the problem is and what is the best solution to how to move forward The analysis showed that if we terminated the contract, this would lead to court cases that would block at all the announcement of a new procedure for selecting a contractor, which would automatically lead to a loss of European funding for this site. That is why we have had a number of negotiations. The contract was not terminated for the reason that it was already clear that it was extended until March 2015. We made negotiations, a new technological, time, technical catch-up programme and completion of the site. The implementation period has already been signed and an annex to the treaty, it was signed literally before Christmas, on 23 December the negotiations were finally concluded, within the framework of this contract with the budget we have to complete by 31 July 2015 all remaining activities. To appease those living in Sandanski and Petrich, who have suffered a great deal from building because it is along the route of the existing road, this means travelling through smaller settlements, which creates a number of problems. This is how the technology program is designed to start in active implementation spring-summer of this year, so that we can get traffic out of small settlements as quickly as possible from Maricostinovo and Petrich, including by pre-dropping one of the lanes from the highway until the second one is completed to minimize the damage, load and especially the heavy crashes that are taking place in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u199	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, thank you for this information. I think she was important. I'd like you to make just one clarification in your back if you think you're going to make one. Of course, the delay in the construction of Lot 4 led to the fact that the bypass roads were literally broken. Henceforth: what is the undertaking of the company contractor in the renovation of these roads or possibly of the state, because these smaller settlements should also be able to have normal communication? I am counting that this is included in the contractual terms and commitments of the contractor company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vigenin, definitely the roads that are currently being used for tours are third-class roads that are not intended for such heavy loads of heavy traffic and of trucks that pass through them. So we have foreseen, after the introduction into service of the highway, hopefully at the latest on 1 August this year, the necessary repairs will be carried out on the third-class roads, which were currently damaged and yet further, unfortunately, will be damaged by the work and by the passage not only of heavy traffic, but also of the construction equipment through them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u203	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Yavor Haytov on the construction of the road section Botevgrad. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Because I've been chosen by 6. Many-mandated Vrachanski region, I have formulated my question about the Botevgrad section, Mezdra, but my colleague from the Reformation Block Willi Lilkov has developed it by expanding it to Vidin. With his knowledge and consent I make this question, and in replica mode he will also make his statement, but essentially.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u205	I'm sorry, you're talking about a second and a fourteenth question. We have Mr. Lilkov's consent.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u206	Yeah. Dear Minister, prior to the launch of the construction of an infrastructure site, there are several stages of pre-project research, design, alienation procedures. Upon completion of these stages, the construction is moved to the top floor. My question to you is: when do you plan to start the construction of the speed section in the Botevgrad section of Mezdra Vidin? I am aware that all stages, namely the design and alienation of terrains, remain only a declaration of the procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the choice of contractor. I would like to say that, always in your conduct, both as a minister and as a politician, you have stressed the need to develop such infrastructure sites. I believe that this is extremely important for the residents of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Haytov, Dear Mr. Lilkov, thank you for agreeing to unite the issue, as both issues concern the same direction, namely the direction Sofia "Vidin," and the construction of the entire direction of this extremely important transport European corridor, even more after the construction of the second bridge of the Danube at Vidin. What I need to confirm in response to your question: yes, we currently have a project readiness to build the entire route from this direction, and it is divided into several categories. As you know, already within the framework of Operational Programme "Transport" the realization is implemented and has already been completed including the realization of the tour of the town of Vratsa a project worth 15 million, which is completed and the site is put into operation. In parallel, the construction of Montana's tour is being completed at the moment, also within the framework of the Operational Programme "Transport" which is also part of this direction. The other sections, due to insufficient project readiness, on the one hand, and, on the other, due to unfinished alienation procedures, were included in the Operational Programme This is the reason why it is not financed and that the construction works of the department are not started specifically Mezdra.. Botevgrad, which you ask about. What we have at the moment, I would say as a chronology of the entire course, first is the section from Vidin to Montana. This section is about 100 km, its indicative value is about 500 million. lv. And for him, we have an approved project. The second section is the Montana section of Vratsa, which is about 30 km. It also has an ideal project, but since we have there and sections of a new route, it requires additional alienations. Its indicative value is 120 million. lv. The Mezdra division is Botevgrad's most complex and toughest stretch, as we have two tunnels along it, several viaducts. It is not as large as length, but has great complexity of the object due to the construction of these serious technical facilities along this route. For it we have developed a technical project as well as an EIA solution. What we do not have completed to date is the approval of the parcel plan and we do not have all the necessary alienations carried out along the route of this section, especially Mezdra The plot and technical site have been ready since 2012. Then during the mandatory public discussion there are many questions from the municipalities in this region and they must be reflected in the plottary plan. To date, they are not yet reflected in the parcel plan, but I guarantee you that we are working on this issue and will be reflected within the coming months. I hope that, at the latest in March this year, this parcel plan of the National Expert Council to the Minister of Regional Development will be able to be fully reviewed, then we will be able to proceed to the actual process of the estrangements themselves along the route to be made. Over 1,000 properties must be estranged. Their indicative value at least at the moment, albeit prior to the unfinished parcel plan, is more than 3 million. lv. So all these activities will be implemented after the final adoption of the plot of land plan, according to the new requirements of the Law on State and the Law on Municipal Property. In general, for the construction of all remaining sections of the direction, which I have already mentioned outside the two tours in implementation, the total necessary value is 970 million, for which we do not have funding within the state budget or within the new Operational Programme. "Transport" because there the road budget is extremely limited and the funds, unfortunately, do not reach. That is why we have given this project for funding within the framework of the opportunity that has been given to us for submitting projects under the Juncker plan. Even if this option cannot be implemented, we have provided for another alternative as a way of looking for funding, namely through the future programme "Transit Roads 6" which we are negotiating with the European Investment Bank, for which the real negotiation and contract can only be concluded in 2016, but nevertheless would be a possible source of funding, albeit with funds from the European Investment Bank, which in itself represents a loan, but we are aware that this time, this direction is extremely important, so we will continue in our efforts to secure the necessary funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Mr. Lilkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact that two MPs are asking the same question has the same question, on the same subject, shows the importance of the matter. I would say that the future development of the Northwest is closely linked, practically linked to the resolution of two major infrastructure projects. This is the road Vidin "Botevgrad" and the modernization of the railway line Vidin "Sofia" and, of course, the stations in this direction. In other words, whatever efforts the government makes to solve the problems of the Northwest will be in vain if these two vital routes are not realized. In this sense, I would like to say the following: I am fully satisfied with the answer I have received because until now, since 2011. The fourth year has already become, different things have been said about this project, I have heard various promises, and now what I hear and the fact that the government has included in its programme as priority for these two projects that I have worked for, including the road Vidin.. Botevgrad, gives me reason to believe that within this mandate we should be able to complete this path. So thank you. I'd like to ask you one more thing. Could I have your answer in writing?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Haytov, do you have a line for the Minister? No. Thank you for joining us in time for one question at a time. Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger? You won't take advantage. We move on to the next question, and he is from the National Representative Vasil Antonov on concrete actions to be taken on construction for the completion of the highway. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Pavlova, my question, as it has become clear, is also on a very specific and crucial issue for the Bulgarian economy and for Northern Bulgaria. Unfortunately, the Hemus Highway has been built for more than 44-45 years, but so far we have only reached less than half, and what remains as a corridor to be fulfilled is within 255 km. Unfortunately, the old programming period 2007 - 2013 did not provide enough funds for transport, even more for Northern Bulgaria. The funds were extremely few and were foreseen only in this part to provide the idea design for the highway "Hemus". It is known that the route, which remains from 255 km, is divided into three positions, the procedures are running in this regard and we hope that within 254 days this procedure will be completed accordingly under the idea project, EIA, archaeological design and research. The disadvantage in the old programming period was that the funds spent on transport corridors were exclusively in southern Bulgaria, so this was an additional complication of the situation in Northern Bulgaria. The Transport Corridor is important, but I say again, it is very crucial for the development of the regions, because the links are very compromised not only between the different regions, but also in separate areas along the Sofia route. There may be a lot of talk on this issue, but here is my specific question to you: what are you going to do in your management period so that you can complete the highway The issue is also political, and through parliamentary control I give the opportunity to answer and hear more people from Northern Bulgaria, because one of your main priorities in the election of a government was to speed up infrastructure projects, including, first and foremost, the one on the highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Antonov, for that question. Undoubtedly the highway is extremely important in the road direction. This motorway is part of the priorities not only of the Ministry of Regional Development, but also of the main priorities of the government in the part of the completion of transport infrastructure. As you rightly pointed out, for the complete completion of the highway, there is, of course, an ongoing realization of a small section of this highway, from Yablanitsa to Belokopitovo, from the direction of this direction, of course, that is 8 km from the highway to Belokopitovo, a project which was launched within the previous term of our government, and I hope that this year these 8 km, together with the big road junction of Belokopitovo, at the big crossroad in the direction of Ruse, will be completed the summer of this year. Outside these activities, what I would certainly like to confirm is that the highway is our top priority, although we do not have 100% financial resources to build it in full. What have we done so far? What we have undertaken on 9 January this year we have announced the tender procedure for the selection of a contractor for the construction of the first stage of these 255 km, namely 60 km from the division from Yablanitsa to the branch Pleven Lovech, these are two of the lots for which we have complete project readiness and for which I hope by the summer of this year, if there are no appeals under the public procurement procedure that has been announced, to select a contractor and to start implementing the first 60 km. In parallel with this, we will realize the completion of the Shumen section of Belokopitovo, a section on which there were also protests last summer, because for a very long time it was not paid to the performers, to the builders, although within the previous cabinet was also claimed to be a priority, it was not paid off. The office paid 8 and a half million. Before Christmas, we paid off the remaining 8 million, so there are no more unpaid activities. We expect active work on this subject, too, to be completed. For the remaining 195 km direction to be built, namely from the Pleven section to Veliko Tarnovo are 85 km and from Veliko Tarnovo to Belokopitovo are 110 km, we do not have funding for the construction, but we continue the design work, the EIA activities, the technical project, the parcel plan to be able to take the necessary steps to alienate the terrains along this route. In parallel, we also work to ensure the necessary funding, as well as negotiations with major financial institutions, mainly the World Bank and the European Investment Bank to ensure the necessary funding. We will also be ready to announce tender procedures for the remaining kilometers, of course, with available funding in the summer of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Pavlova, thank you for your reply. I understand that the issue of the highway is on the agenda for implementation in the next programming period. Although the funds were insufficient, I could not understand those who were for the first lottery for Jablanitsa, how would these funds come? Where will these funds come from? I haven't been able to figure out the extent to which your answer is. I want to tell you that with the rights of parliamentary control after 6 months, I reserve the right to put this question to you again so that we can see how far it has gone. Once again, we rely on those living in Northern Bulgaria not to make the analogue again with the Northwest because they are no different indicators in other regions and districts, and they are roughly close to those who are also in Northwestern Bulgaria. Thank you again for your answer. I'm counting on some clarification from you on where they'll come from for the first stage.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Pavlova, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u220	Thank you. Just to clarify the first 60 km, for which a tender procedure has been announced, these are two lots of 30 km, I specify that we are looking for separate performers. In the procedure, if one contractor is chosen for one lot, he cannot perform the other lot to enable more construction companies to work. The indicative value of the two lots is 520 million with VAT. This project is planned for a second project after the highway Struma, so in the construction of the highway Struma, we expect saved funds to be able to partially finance the construction of this site. Co-financing will be provided by the state budget. However, in order to be able to start the construction of the project this year, we have provided for the so-called project funding to refinance it through the state budget and in 2016 we can already ensure its construction and co-financing under the Operational Programme "Transport" 2014 - 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u221	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question, which is asked by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov about the poor condition of the third-class road - Yugovski branch - Lucky (II-861) in the municipality of Lucky, Plovdiv region. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u222	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, I am addressing you in connection with the extremely poor condition of a third-class road "Yugovski branch" in the municipality of Lucky, Plovdiv region. This time it is the only one that connects the municipality of Lucky with the district center Plovdiv and the interior of the country, which is why it is particularly important, but also quite busy. Although it is part of the third-class road network, it consists mostly of a single narrow canvas with partial extensions. In addition, it, as a high road, is located at a great altitude on a heavily crossed mountain chain. This time he's quite difficult and dangerous to cross. The slopes of the road in many places exceed 10 degrees, and the turns are almost one after the other and are quite sharp. The road was built in the 1950s and is sized for much less traffic than the current one. The larger movement of cars is caused by the fact that the road is the only link, as I have already pointed out, between the municipality with the district center Plovdiv and Asenovgrad. In addition, during the summer months in connection with the visit of the area of Krastova forest by tourists and by praying people is quite burdened. The road is also used as a shortcut for the travelers from the Smolyan axis. This is the road where heavy goods trucks take lead-zinc concentrate out of the Lucky Invest JSC for processing in KCM. In view of this, small partial repairs made over the years are extremely insufficient to ensure the safety of the road and the expansion of the road. In this regard, my questions to you are: is the reconstruction and rehabilitation of a third-class road planned for Yugovski branching out of Lucky? If it is foreseen when, does it have the means to do so? If it is not foreseen, what are the reasons why the people of Lucky Municipality should be deprived of normal road communication and put at high risk of road accidents? More generally, are funds intended to rehabilitate the third-class road network specifically in Plovdiv district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chakarov, the undisputed state of the third-class fork of Yugovski is extremely bad, extremely heavy. There's one more thing I want to confirm here. At present, not only the general state, but also this time generally does not meet the requirements for a third-class road as technical parameters, such as a condition based on the road, the pavement, its gauge and width. In order to make its overall reconstruction, rehabilitation in order to be brought to the minimum requirements for a third-class road, a comprehensive technical project is needed plus a plotted plan and alienation of the respective plots of forest fund along this path, because its extension is necessary, not only because of the slopes, but also because in places it is extremely narrow. What I can confirm is that at the moment no action has been taken on this road section in the years behind and at the time, unfortunately, in the preparation of such technical assignments, the design or parcel plan and appropriate alienation measures. What I can confirm is that for 2015 we are planning that in the framework of the programme on the ongoing repair of Republican roads along the route of this road section repair activities and patching up all the toughest areas, especially those that will be opened as a result of the winter conditions at the end of the winter season. With regard to the other third-class roads within the Plovdiv region, what we have is two roads in the region to be included in the final list of projects that will be financed under the Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020.".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We intend to make it possible for the API to submit its final list in the summer of this year to be reviewed and approved in order to start the implementation. What are the two ways? This is the road Stoykata - Wide Laka - Michalkovo - Krichim - one of the projects that is envisaged. It is in a length of 71 kilometers, with four sections of this road being planned for a complete reconstruction, rehabilitation of the operational programme, as well as the direction of Plovdiv. This is also a very important direction that needs and will be repaired within the operational programme. This is an issue that we also discussed a few weeks ago within the Commission. In parallel with this, we are planning two very important bridges to be renovated in 2015 in Plovdiv region. This is the bridge of Hissarya, which is at the railway crossing along the direction of Hissarya, a facility that has been unfinished for more than 15 years and is causing problems on the road. What we want to do this year is to finish this bridge facility, which will allow no longer to climb the train, we will pass over the railway line, which will significantly reduce the risk of moving in this region. As well as another bridge over Stryama, you know the bridge over Stryama at Rakovski was repaired due to its fall. We have another critical bridge over Stryama. That's in the direction of Manole. There, too, the inspection shows that the bridge's resistance is not good, it is risky, and that is why during this season we will take action on its strengthening and repair to ensure safety and not to find that this bridge will collapse, as there have been in the years behind. These are our main priorities for this year on the roads in Plovdiv region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u225	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u226	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Over the past few years, I have repeatedly asked questions about the state of the road and possibly their rehabilitation. This fact in itself suggests that the state of the road network, despite the efforts being made, has a huge need for rehabilitation, construction and extension of roads. This is the condition we are currently commenting on. I thank you for finding that the road "Yugovski fork" is not meeting the criteria for a safe road network and this year the relevant repair activities will be maintained in order to have, as far as possible, communication. But the risk of all the considerations I put forward remains. Dear Minister, I did not hear from you when project activities will be undertaken. Those at this point, as far as I understand, have not been taken. It is good to start with road design, to carry out and follow-up necessary procedures and actions so that in a nearer future time period this happens. This is the correct attitude towards people who also live in a socio-economic aspect. I thank you for your response to the programme provided for the implementation of rehabilitation, construction of road network and bridges in Plovdiv region. From what I hear, there is a good prospect of doubling the road between Plovdiv and Asenovgrad, is that what I understand? This is a question that I have asked you several times, both to you and to your colleagues. So all these questions will be of my attention as the MP who has been elected for the third time from Plovdiv region. All this is for the sake of having better communication, safer and safer as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-16.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Minister Pavlova? You're not going to take advantage of the right to the back. With this, we have exhausted the time provided for parliamentary control. I thank all my colleagues who have asked questions that were involved in it so that we can, especially in the last half hour, ensure the high pace at which Mrs. Pavlova is accustomed. The next plenary session shall be on 21 January 2015 at 9.00. We're adjourned. Have a nice day! [[PHONE RINGING]]
