ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today is the first day of the new session of the National Assembly, which is also the first Wednesday of January, which is why our programme for this week is in line with the rules of procedure in the Rules of Procedure for the first plenary Wednesday for each month. The programme shall include a proposal of the parliamentary groups in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of the rotation of the parliamentary groups first this month are from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, followed by the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and in descending order with regard to the number of the groups. There is a proposal from the BSP group left Bulgaria as a first point without voting in our program for today: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms becomes, respectively, point two without voting: First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the Reformation Bloc groups, Patriotic Front, Bulgarian Democratic Center, Ataka, ABB and GERB. What we should put to the vote as a Project Programme for our work this week includes: 3. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and Krasimir Velchev from the group of GERB, and Valeri Simeonov from the group of the Patriotic Front. 4. Draft decision on the validation of the Internal Rules for the Commission's work on control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is envisaged and we propose that this be the first item for Thursday, January 15, 2015. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Agreement amending and supplementing the Financial Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund on the implementation of the JEREMIE Initiative in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Project for a decision on the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020. 8. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for today, the first Wednesday, I repeat, January at 12:00 p.m. This is the so-called "hot" blitz control. 9. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. On a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, it will begin at 9:00 on Friday due to a large number of questions and questions to ministers. In view of the time to answer these up-to-date questions, we need more than 16 hours for the questions they have received so far. I shall put to the vote your proposed draft in the part to be voted on. Vote 198 MPs: 187, against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 17 December 2014 to 13 January 2015 shall: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Importer (s) Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Leader of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and Krasimir Velchev. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and Krasimir Velchev. Draft Decision on the need to review the EU's policy of sanctions on the conflict in Ukraine. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Leader of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bank deposit guarantee bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. Importers ".. Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. Leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. It will also be watched by the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers - Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Leading Committee on Education and Science. Updated Strategy for continuing judicial reform. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics; the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Commission for Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management. Importer "Valery Simeonov." A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers Tsetska Tsacheva and a group of MPs. Leading Committee on Legal Affairs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers suppose Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. Leading Committee on Education and Science. A bill amending the Tourism Act. Importers suppose Delyan Dobrev and Daniela Saveklieva. Leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer Stanislav Stanilov. It has been assigned to the Committee on Education and Science. Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for January-June 2014 and Budget of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2015. Importer "Bulgarian National Bank." It has been allocated to the Budget and Finance Committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs as a leader of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Decision supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The importer is Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is leading, and also: the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is leading and more: the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer is MP Petar Slavov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft Law on the ratification of an Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 17 December 2009. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill amending the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and controlling toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A few more messages. By application of 19 December 2014, Mr. Mustafa Karadayi and Mr. Hassan Ademov stated that they withdrew a bill for amending the Social Security Code. The Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly on 29 December 2014. The same was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the period from 6 to 13 January 2015, two materials from the National Statistical Institute were received to the National Assembly, containing statistics on key indicators for economic development as of 30 December 2014; business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in December 2014; general index of producer prices in industry and indexes of domestic producer prices in November 2014; index of turnover in the section The materials are in the Library of the National Assembly, accessible to all Members of the National Assembly. On 6 January 2015, the National Assembly received a decision to terminate proceedings No. PK-234-14-264 of 18 December 2014 of the Commission for the prevention, establishment of a conflict of interest in connection with a signal against Ivan Kunchov Mavrov as a member of the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. By my letter, the material was provided to the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. The Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that by his orders he has authorised: the passage through and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of aircraft and servicemen of the United States Armed Forces of 6 January 2015 under art. 13, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. By purpose of a second order, he has authorised joint Bulgarian-American preparations for the time 2 - 30 January 2015, involving forces and funds of the Armed Forces of the United States of America, the Republic of Serbia and Romania. The notifications have been made to the Defence Commission. Before we move on to the agenda, traditionally on each first plenary day of the new plenary session, there is an opportunity for the parliamentary groups to state your priorities for a legislative programme and topics for discussion in the forthcoming session. By decision of the Conference of Presidents, this will be broadcast directly on the National Radio and Bulgarian National Television. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of the National Television and National Radio respectively. If we are ready, we can start with statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups, according to the size of the same. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, I offer our condolences to the relatives of the victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris. Bulgaria is solidarity with the pain and sorrow of the French people. With the participation of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in the March of Solidarity in Paris, our country joined the nations, strongly condemning all acts of terrorism and extremism. There are no goals that would justify taking a human life in such an antihuman way. That is why Bulgaria must in every way oppose such actions throughout the world and at the same time ensure the security of its citizens. In the national plan Bulgaria started 2015 much calmer, more stable and more positiveally oriented than it began 2014. A few months ago our country was in a state of prolonged political turbulence, financial weightlessness and international isolation. The past year was marked by regression, poverty, disasters, scandals, and Bulgaria's face in front of the world was remembered by large-scale civil protests. Bulgarian citizens' trust in the institutions in the country collapsed to unprecedented low levels. This was the result of the unprincipled triple coalition of BSP, DPS and Ataka, whose only ideological platform was the desire to destroy the political party GERB. [[BSP LB.]] The wisdom of the citizens, however, took a high and put a pole in the wheel of this illegitimate triple coalition. The Bulgarian citizens did not give in to anti-GERB manipulations and two consecutive national choices showed the red cards of the failed socialists, liberals and nationalists. The aversion to the policy that the government of Oresharski deliberately created in Bulgarian citizens led to a record low turnout of early parliamentary elections and destroyed the national representation in the forty-third parliament. This result brought GERB before the tough choice between its political future and the rescue of the state. It was time for judgmental decisions, wisdom and compromises. GERB President gave a historical example for future generations of how the responsible Bulgarian statesman should act in times of crisis. Taking a step back from his positions on numerous issues, Borisov gave each of the political forces in the Forty-third National Assembly the opportunity to participate equally in the process of forming the new government of national salvation. Some parties have taken the hand held responsibly, others have found reasonable arguments not to participate in the government, a third openly tried to sabotage the process of forming the new government. Despite all attempts to bend hands and threats to peace in the country, the chairman of GERB took the responsibility and risk of leading a minority government for a second time. [[(Unique shouts from BSP LB: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Do it honestly, without behind-the-scenes arrangements and with the clear awareness that he is betting the future of GERB in the name of Bulgaria. Today, two months after the establishment of the government, we can boldly and categorically say that the GERB party successfully passed the historical exam to which it was subjected. The government returned Bulgaria's trust to our international partners, as a result of which the European Commission paid our country about 1 billion. lv. only for the last month of 2014 and approved Bulgaria's operational programmes for the next programming period 2014 - 2020 amounting to more than 6 billion. lv. The first steps were taken towards carrying out long-term reforms in the area of pension insurance, health care, education, administration and the judiciary. At the beginning of the new 2015 it is important to draw the right conclusions from the past year so that we do not make the old mistakes and go in a better way. First of all, it is important to remember that the power of politicians stems from the people, and it cannot be lied to and manipulated for a long time. Therefore, the strongest argument in politics is the truth. Remember this, fellow Socialists. Secondly, historically, every management of BSP ends with a severe financial crisis and a disaster which the right-wing governments must then correct. Thirdly, stable governance in Bulgaria is possible without the participation of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Fourth, even in times of sharp political opposition, the path to sensible dialogue and compromise in the name of the state is possible. However, he is going through responsible political leadership, as the Chairman of the Party GERB demonstrated. And fifth, the successful move of the coalition boat is only possible when coalition partners row in the same direction. Any deviation from this rule does not simply make the work of everyone aboard, but also puts the entire boat at risk of sinking. As the largest centre-right party in Bulgaria, a major problem for both the country and GERB is the weak left. Our opposition is not developing and this is a problem for us, but it is also becoming a problem for the country. [[Laughter, lines, excitement in BSP LB.]] The delayed healing processes of the left lead to debalance of the political system. BSP claims to set a tone of social policy in Bulgaria have less pragmatic coverage in recent years. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] For GERB, however, there are no successes beyond Bulgaria's successes. In 2015 GERB will continue to work so as not to leave the half-solved problems, however heavy they may be, whoever created them. The successful closure of the corporate commercial bank crisis has proved that the government has the expertise and the political will to solve systemic problems. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Unfortunately, the resolution of the KTB case was worth billions, which could be targeted at measures for economic growth. Therefore, before GERB, as a responsible political force, is the task of ensuring that such a scandal will not happen again. This guarantee goes through conservative fiscal policy and a stable banking system. Justice is the main motive for continuing judicial reform. Days before the European Commission announces another report on Bulgaria, GERB will support the updated Strategy adopted by the government to continue the reform of the judiciary. In this way, our group will support the strengthening of efforts to modernise the judiciary and ensure a European standard of justice in the service of citizens and the rule of law. Reforms in the Security Sector are also among the priorities of political party GERB during the new plenary session. We will restore the President's balancing role to appoint by decree the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior and the Presidents of the State Agency of National Security. The General Directorate of Organized Crime is leaving the DANS and is returning to its natural environment in the system of the Ministry of Interior. The competition for career growth in the Ministry of Interior is restored. The National Police Directorate General is being restored. Thanks to these specific measures Bulgaria will repair the damage done by Oresharski and Yovchev to the law enforcement system. GERB's parliamentary group will also defend the restoration of the only recognised and proven throughout Europe a successful model of functioning of the Court of Auditors. This is the model that has been strongly supported by both the European Commission and the European Parliament. We're going to remove the party-quoting of the nine-member composition, where everyone knows everything. Social policy, education and health also remain our main commitment to Bulgarian citizens. The permanent stabilisation and guarantee of the insurance system will be a central pillar in our work in 2015. At the same time, through the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act, we will reform the secondary education system. We will guarantee higher literacy and better education for Bulgarian children and reduce the number of dropouts. With the changes in health legislation, we will maximise the scope of health care for people, guarantee equal and quality access to health and implement e-health, thereby achieving more quality control over resources in the health system. The upcoming local elections in autumn 2015 will be a test not only for people's attitude towards the country's governance, but also for their readiness to delegate more responsibility at local level. These elections will be particularly useful if, along with the exercise of our political choices, we provide citizens with the opportunity to rule on possible changes in electoral legislation. The current Election Code is marked with so many significant defects that it constantly reproduces injustice. An example of this is the significant differences in the electoral burden of mandates in different regions. As long as such electoral phenomena exist, each cabinet will start its management with negatives, which bet on its own electoral system. The subject of the bought vote and its adequate response also continues to be an up-to-date centre of public attention. Despite the massive disapproval and resentment of this phenomenon, we have not yet found a sufficiently reliable and working mechanism to deal with the problem. We at GERB are determined to go all the way in solving this problem and we are looking extremely seriously at the idea of introducing the mandatory vote. I declare it now that the horizon for work in this Parliament is three years and nine months, so that we are not accused of wanting to change election rules pre-electionally. As Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, I call on all MPs in the Forty-third National Assembly to be responsible for conduct, constructive dialogue and overpowering narrow party and personal interests. The high of this institution obliges us in this tense moment for both Bulgaria and the world to invest all our energy knowledge and will to find the best solutions for the existing problems. Today, more than ever, political selfishness is inadequate to the challenges of historic times. So let's all work for stability in the country. It is the only way that our participation in the Forty-third National Assembly will receive a positive assessment from future generations. I wish all reason, patience and tolerance! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, RB, PF and BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the concern for the development of the left, which the head of the parliamentary group of GERB expressed, but I expected more ambitious commitments for the development of the country to be presented to us. In my opinion, the tone and content of this speech for the most part do not respond to the severe problems facing the country and the majority of Bulgarian citizens. Just days ago, as is due for the New Year, we made traditional wishes for health, well-being and success. In difficult times, optimism is even more necessary, as long as it does not cloud the mind. In an atmosphere of lost hopes, state-owned political preachers continue to sprinkle the neoliberal mantra on us that we will eventually achieve our due well-being. While the country is sinking into accumulated problems, politicians and media are calling again for reforms which, instead of clear direction and estimates, are presented as a fatal but cleansing ritual that must deny any different opinion and sensible action. These truth keepers cannot or have no interest in admitting that the world and Europe have entered into a new instability in a new transition to a multi-polar world. The risks of the expansion of religious, ethnic and political extremism are increasing. The mass reaction of hundreds of thousands gathered in Paris this Sunday shows that the majority does not want to lose democracy, live in fear and fall into captivity of hatred. But in order to preserve freedom not only of speech, we must oppose ever deeper social divisions, not to hold back the tragedy of hundreds and thousands of others in the world and in Europe, as we have done for several people now. This can only be achieved by radical policy change and by dialogue between nations and civilisations against violence and double standards. As early as December, the government had to present a management program. There's no such thing to this day. Perhaps it is not necessary for the cabinet to be more responsive to the claims of these influential circles that helped him come to power, to respond to the mixed expectations of the parties that assembled the four-way ruling coalition and its silent thematic partners. In this situation of social confusion, of political distrust and personal disappointment, the lighthouse keeper cannot indulge in his own woes. That is why BSP left Bulgaria is again called to illuminate the national self-consciousness and to protect the people of labor and all who want to help the Bulgarian nation out of the swamp of the transition of the path of development. We implement our progressive policy programme based on the principles of equality and social justice aimed at sustainable employment, decent incomes accessible to all education and health care. We will maintain the transition to progressive taxation of personal incomes in the interests of most citizens and families. Before that, however, we will submit a bill for the interpretation of the Law on Income Tax on Individuals, so as not to include in the taxable basis the additional monthly wage for acquired service and professional experience, as well as all non-taxable income. This affects tens of thousands and probably a lot more people. Under the pressure of trade unions and socialist opposition in the National Assembly for this year, an increase in retirement age was suspended. We propose amendments to the Social Security Code to stop the rise of both work experience and opportunities for flexible retirement of these 34,000 people who cannot retire. Let me remind you that the GERB government froze 14 social payments for the benefit of mothers, children, people with disabilities and others. Each of these measures affects several tens of thousands of people. We want to maintain the responsibilities of the state towards education.. it to finance state and municipal schools; to combine education and education; to acquire, in addition to knowledge, and skills; to increase the social role of the school. We continue our efforts to limit monopolies by changing the Competition Act to protect Bulgarian producers and consumers in large retail chains. There's no way we're gonna get past the sharpest problems of the day. Chronic is the problem of mass crime, especially in small towns. For a short time, several premeditated murders have been committed to settle accounts, and we call on the authorities to ensure that the instigators and perpetrators are exposed and punished this time. Tens of trains have been stopped, some of which are as non-alternative as transportation for thousands of citizens. It is good that the management of the Transport Commission has responded to our proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting. We demand a change of the adopted decision of the Bulgarian State Railways. However, this will hardly happen if the protests of citizens and representatives of local authorities, of trade unions and of all those who must stand up for their rights continue. We are against the privatization of the Bulgarian railways. You're bragging that almost $4 billion has been paid. lv. for a bank, and the government is justified that it cannot provide 40 million for one of the symbols of modern Bulgaria the railways. Speaking of the bank, I'd like to ask, where, who has the missing money? Didn't you promise an international investigation? Not only do we see a result but also an effort to give the answer to the question. How long will the conversation of silence continue, which seems to be beneficial to many, in which citizens will again pay the bills of those who robbed them? In order not to repeat this scenario, we propose to set up a temporary committee to examine the state of pension funds and the effectiveness of financial supervision over them. We call on the parliamentary groups to support this initiative if they do not want us to suspect that they are also related to such possible future frauds. Today's government is a record for external loans. It plans to withdraw 8 billion. lv. and the debt this year to reach 24,5 billion. lv. This brings the budget closer to one year and, together with private debt, is almost as much as gross domestic product per year. This is much more than the loudly spoken 1990 when it was claimed that Bulgaria was in financial collapse. After Bulgaria has wasted the opportunity to implement large energy and other projects, since we cannot rely on serious support from either the West or the East, we must rely on our own forces first and foremost. However, this cannot happen without a new socio-economic model, the basis of which is mainly support for small and medium-sized farmers, including cooperatives, without stimulating the processing of agricultural production and providing markets for it. There is no way to achieve significant growth and sustainable employment without a reindustrialisation programme and without modernisation of the social policy for targeting a new social state. The government is being held captive by a waitress foreign policy devoid of vision and the national dignity expected by citizens. Leaning in energy and the lack of direct dialogue with those without which the launched projects cannot be implemented is a confirmation of this finding. There are no clear national criteria for assessing the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement project. The approach to proposals for the European Commission's investment plan to include projects dropped out of operational programmes without seeking the opinion of the business will not achieve the necessary economic revival and greater social impact. This tells us how much is the capacity of the government in the field of economics. We have made a proposal to review the policy of sanctions and counter-sanctions, and this issue must be more and more actively discussed at European level. The refugee problem is knocking on our door again. Unfortunately, we do not even use all the clauses of European legislation, Dublin agreements. It should be clear that Bulgaria has reached its assigned capacity and we should really take care of the integration of the people who are already in our territory, not irresistibly and uncontrollably to accept new waves, which will put us in the face of new challenges and serious social problems for Bulgarian citizens. In 2015, 25 years of the first multi-party elections have been held in Bulgaria for decades. Let us make sure that local elections at least partially restore trust in democracy, reduce buying and corporate vote. We will offer standards for left-wing policy in the local government, we will follow the example of our predecessors the Socialists from centuries ago in the first communists, in the municipalities governed by socialists, who for the first time have found concrete solutions and have given people hope for the future policy. Unfortunately, however, the government shows neither direction nor gives security and perspective to citizens, does not stand for national positions. There is no vision of a new model of socio-economic development of the country and of the European Union, but our task is as far as we can fill these gaps. We will actively participate in this dialogue, we will be adamant and irresistible when it comes to protecting the interests of the people of labor, the rights of all Bulgarian citizens who want to participate in the restoration of modern Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Chairman of the Group Mr Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u6	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The beginning of the 2015 parliamentary season and most of all the dramatic events of brutal terrorism in France are sufficient grounds for a much more global analysis that transcends the parameters of national policy. It is about the meaning, state, perspective and even the distant vision of our co-existence, of the European Union's ability to think of itself as an organism, of their potential and of NATO's motivation to realize its main purpose for collective defence. The terrorist act in Paris a week ago came not only as a confirmation of the long-standing conclusions about the unconventional threats facing our modern civilization. For the first time since September 11, 2001, we have such a bold demonstration of terrorist alternatives. On the one hand, this is........................................................................................................ And for the first time, over humanity, there seems to be a tremendous amount of power ahead of an impossible choice. It is about democracy, tolerance and diversity, on the one hand, and xenophobic suspicion, self-insulation and security demand with the cost of limiting human rights on the other. Do we have common will and resources to preserve and fulfill our dream of a Europe of free citizens and of the common democratic space? Or another terrorist provocation will turn us against each other, make us hesitate and make us give up and deny ourselves our most valuable conquest, the idea of multicultural cohabitation, of religious and ethnic tolerance, of democracy by equality of differences. I have the right to put such questions both as a liberal and as president of a party whose cause is rights and freedoms. We condemn all kinds and acts of terrorism. The DPS came up with a special position to condemn the murders in Paris. But we are obliged to stress that at the moment the world is increasingly becoming a hostage of a new race between terrorism and national populism, which ultimately hides no smaller, albeit different, dangers. Do we have our own national political capital to counter new challenges and provocations? Days before the New Year, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in a special position on the occasion of the former Plenum of the Central Committee of the BCP on 29 December 1989 noted that Bulgaria today needs a new quality of political dialogue and a new national democratism. The DPS fully shares the understanding of such a need. As a Bulgarian politician, I was proud to see the Bulgarian Prime Minister Mr. Borisov alongside the European leaders of the Republican Marsh of Solidarity in Paris. However, the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have previously seen leaders of the nationalist partner of today's power at Marin Le Pen's forums, which was naturally not near Holland, Merkel, Cameron and Borisov of Marsha in Paris, because it does not belong there. I ask: how do we explain the fact that while France and democratic Europe have their republican march, the Bulgarian supporters of Marin Le Pen have their Lukovmarsh in Sofia? That is why our political, civil and purely human concern about the presence of the nationalist Patriotic front in government is gaining new arguments and new concrete! What does this have to do with the new quality of political dialogue, what does this have to do with the thesis of a new national democratism, the anti-Roma rhetoric of reformers and national populists, anti-Bean speaking? What does this have to do with the new quality of political dialogue likening a national liberal party with European recognition with the Kuashi brothers or other partners in government? You're gonna pretend these charges don't concern you?! They're only a problem on the Patriotic Front?! Ladies and gentlemen, this is why, at the end of last year, we have expressed our opinion that if the Patriotic Front continues to be part of the ruling coalition, the best solution will be new early parliamentary elections. This is neither an emotional nor purely ideological thesis! This is neither a hidden ambition for power nor a form of jealousy! This is an analysis of the fact that such bright, even contrastable, incompatible majority partners condemn the country to an even higher level of populism and political abstractionism. A state that is far from favorable for making strategic reforms. In such an atmosphere, no reforms are possible either in the field of health, pension or education, not to mention the judiciary. What, then, will the four-party coalition offer us? Self-inflicted presence in power as preparations for the local elections? Power over building personal political image or simply wasting historical and political time for Bulgaria? The point of clarifying the management profile as a real, valuable, Euro-Atlantic one is that a new platform will be created with clear arguments and clear reflection of both power and reformist tasks to be resolved. A clear Euro-Atlantic government will be a cause. The current model of governance looks like an unhealthy populist compromise. And the cause for which it is worth consolidating value energy is not only the expected reforms. A crucial cause is the restoration of the balance sheets of Bulgarian democracy to show both citizens and Europe and the world that Bulgaria sees the most serious guarantee of its security not in isolation but in democracy, in color and tolerance. This was our strategic choice 25 years ago. It is our duty to reaffirm it today, in crossroads times for Europe, in crisis times for our common homeland. And when I talk about the cause to restore the balance of democracy, to rehabilitate parliamentaryism and to give new chances for our civil society, I cannot ignore another painful subject about the still undeclared consequences of a huge crime of the communist regime called the revival process. The political height of the DPS is that although born out of the pain of the revival process, never, I repeat, never blamed the Bulgarian citizens for this serious crime, because the blame is solely on the communist regime. Likewise, crimes committed by individual representatives of one religion cannot be blamed for all believers, even more unacceptable.......................the religion itself. Today we are all Charb, Kabu, Honore, Tinyu, Volinski, Marie, Reno, Cayat, but Mustafa Urad and Merabeth Ahmed. Today we are all Amir Menashe, Icik Kolengi, Maor Harush, Elior Pries, Koča Shriki, but Mustafa from the village of Yurukhovo, who died in the terrorist act in Sarafovo. The victims are of different ethnic and religious backgrounds. Christians, Jews and Muslims, because we are all victims of terror and because terror has no religion. Despite the tragedy, because of the memory of the victims today, we must have the strength to state that the ethno-religious and cultural diversity of Europe is not its weakness, but the strength of a democratic Europe of equal citizens! Dear ladies and gentlemen, in order for Bulgaria to be a strong and dignified country, there must be strong and dignified people living in it. A country where there are groups of citizens who are viewed as second-class people cannot be strong or worthy! Once together, we started on the path of Euro-Atlanticism and democracy, let us stay on this path. As for the DPS, and in this session we will vote in accordance with our election commitments and our political identity as a formation with the ideas of European liberalism and Euro-Atlanticism. Yes, it is a matter of identity, which is certified not by words, but by real political behaviour, with political pragmatism. If this pragmatism is lost to anyone, if anyone has a problem with their reforming resources, then let's not look for their own management and reforming infirmity universal culprit, a scapegoat in the face of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I'm graduating, I see how much you want us to treat you as your enemies, because you see us as your enemy. No, the DPS is a mature party and does not see in you its enemy, but its political opponent. The difference in the understanding of the two categories of enemy and opponent shows the maturity and culture of each political power. The Replace of Political Reality [[the President signals that time has run out]] With the rude symbols of good and evil is the path of self-target confrontation, is the way to nowhere. It's time for real humility, not aggression. But you have the power. [[the President signals that time has run out]] It's your responsibility as well as the choice, of course. Let's have a healthy and tolerant 2015 year! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. All speakers are delayed by seconds, in the case of a minute, time, but I think this is important, so I'm gonna... [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Yes, that's what I'm explaining, Mr. Mestan. Statement on behalf of the Group of the Reformation Bloc Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are at the beginning of the most important parliamentary season in many years, I would say more than a decade. And it is most important not only because 2014 was an international and internal critical for Bulgaria, but because Bulgaria hit the bottom of the crisis of political power, its institutions, of justice and legality, and of its finances. Pushing away from this bottom, it is in a very bad position to be an equal participant in solving very serious international challenges and to be an equal and worthy participant in the tasks facing the European Union today. I will allow myself to quote the classics: it is the politicians who are thinking about the next elections, the statesmen who are thinking about the next generations. Many of us are tempted to think only of the next elections, and they are very soon. And those after them are also very soon. If today we are only thinking about local elections, and soon afterwards only about the President, we are risking parliamentary change somewhere in the middle. Our priorities in the spring session of the Forty- Third Parliament have nothing to do with the local elections in autumn. The elections are not a solution to the urgent problems of Bulgarian citizens, although they may be a solution to many of the urgent problems of our parties. Our priorities have a far longer-term nature. We must make an effort to bring Bulgaria back to the reforming rails and to put into action and to the results the good promises that the Programme Declaration of the majority and the management program provide. We will tolerate criticism that the programme, which will be published in the coming days, lacks a lot of time. Maybe that's not so bad. I'm also one of those people who's critical of the lack of deadlines. Maybe it's not so bad because most of the deadlines were yesterday. Whatever we do not start today, what we do not start in the spring session of the forty-third parliament, we will not start until the end of our reign. We must immediately adopt the Strategy for Reform of Justice and proceed to its implementation through amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the formation of a majority for constitutional changes. If our next legislative measures do not follow a strong anti-corruption policy in the judiciary, in the security sector and in the entire state administration, they will remain fruitless. Complete structural changes in justice, prosecution and security are needed, combined with personal changes at the highest management levels of systems. What happened in the Bulgarian National Bank after the bankruptcy of KTB is indicative of what happens when personal changes are not made. We are currently stuck in a swamp that reduces the trust of Bulgarian citizens in general in the supervisory functions of the state. Reforms in health, energy and education have long endured no delay. The ministers and their teams did most of their work. In the coming weeks and months, it's time for us to definitely do ours. The delay in the changes and the sinking of these spheres into deep corruption has affected every Bulgarian family, the very structure of the Bulgarian society, the whole Bulgarian business and, last but not least, the budget from the family and personal family through the company budget of Bulgaria. The strategy for health reform, the legislative changes related to the provision of medicines to be deposited before us this spring should be among our priorities, along with the Preschool and School Education Act, the Higher Education Development Strategy, the Energy Act and the new state energy strategies. The same applies to the instruments for imposing these changes, and they are in administration, public procurement and the philosophy of budgeting state policies. I am optimistic about Parliament's legislative agenda. I am also optimistic about the recovery of European funds. What the government has managed to do in the short time since its choice so far cannot be denied even by the opposition, at least not with a pure heart. But if the policies under our legislative programme are not implemented by honest, professional and people-friendly administration if they are not programmed and if they are not awarded with fair public procurement, their result will simply not reach the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, it will not be assessed positively and will not be positive. The benefits won't reach the people. And here I will again give the example of Corporate Commercial Bank. We voted in this House one of our first votes, for an international investigation into CCB files and for tracking the missing funds. From this Parliament's decision at the moment, there is no data to follow real action [[partial applause from BSP LB]] So the lack of initiative by the administration in implementing the legislative programme actually condemns a weak result. We must fulfil our commitment to lasting, facing the future and adopted with the maximum agreement of the parliamentary majority, the opposition and the social partners evolution of the pension model. Today's model is doomed to involve the National Insurance Institute and the state budget in severe and insurmountable, increasing deficits. The isolated solutions per piece, which over the years, including at the end of last year, have been adopted, only deepening the problem and increasing these risks. We should turn to the pensions of today's working people, think about the amount of pension payments after 25 and 30 years, think about the demographic picture of the Bulgarian society and reach a common solution that will not be reversed when, under the rules of democracy, today's rulers become opposition. We are faced, briefly, with the difficult task of combining urgent reforms with a long-term strategy. In order to be able to solve this problem, first and foremost, we need to realize that a house is built from the foundations, and to change the root of justice and the security system, to ensure the health and education of the declining Bulgarian population, as well as the pensions of today's working people, because only so can we mitigate the effects of the inevitable demographic crisis and then think about overcoming it. Let's realize that today's number and structure of the state administration and the party nature of the appointments are always beneficial to the ruling parties, but do not meet the needs nor the budget of today's Bulgaria, and even less of tomorrow's six millionth Bulgaria. And finally, in order to achieve these goals, we need to strengthen the spirit of political humility, a constructive dispute between government and opposition in search of public interest and a healthy climate in the ruling majority, because no reform will actually apply and bring benefit to people if it is imposed in public consciousness such as the politics or reform of Peter Moskov, of Hristo Ivanov, of Vladislav Goranov or of Ivaylo Kalfin. Only the general political will of the majority in the forty-third parliament and in the government can make the government reformative and useful for the Bulgarian citizens. Bulgarians do not trust politicians and are always ready to punish us in elections, no matter how prepared we are, financially, organisationally, politically, we think we appear to them. If our thought in the spring session is towards the elections in autumn, the results will be very disappointing for us too, but we can ask and earn confidence as statesmen, and in the spring and summer of 2015 we prove that we are not thinking about the elections, but about the future of the country and the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u9	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, you have the floor, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After 7 January we live in another Europe. You may not feel it yet, but the attacks in Paris have wiped out a ridiculous illusion that has intruded on us for several decades. The illusion of overrated multiculturalism and of the pseudoliberal model. Yes, they did shoot at the word, but they actually shot at a sovereign country, a European Union flagman, shot at our civilization based on traditional Christian values and tolerance. And that's the truth! This might not have happened if all those politicians who came to Paris this Sunday to show their solidarity with France had not been pretending for years that they did not see what was happening in the Middle East, what was happening in the world. More than 100,000 peaceful Muslims were killed there, and more than one million Christians were banished from their homeland in Iraq and Syria, while their temples and homes were plannedly destroyed. But the price of oil and gas was more important than human life and dignity. And we saw the result on January 7th! This hypocrisy is the real reason for what happened in Paris and today the danger of other terrorist attacks in Europe is extremely great. But let's get back to reality in Bulgaria. The 100 days of tolerance are approaching, which society traditionally gives to each parliament and a new government. Unfortunately, the National Assembly has again become an arena of inter-party struggle, demagogy and insults, and the Bulgarian people expect their MPs to finally read what is written at the entrance of the National Assembly. The Bulgarian people expect responsibility from the National Assembly, adequate laws and more patriotism. The patriotic front "NFSB and IMRO" supported the creation of a government against the clearly undertaken commitments to create a management program in which not only to identify the different problems of Bulgaria, but also to start the actions for their resolution. The patriotic front expects the management program to be presented this week and to start real steps in its implementation. The main priorities of the Patriot Front during the new session are as follows: We continue to insist on the full removal of the DPS from the structures of power; changes in electoral legislation and the introduction of mandatory voting in order to limit buyings, ethnic and corporate votes. The patriotic front, as has already become clear in the negotiations, is against increasing the price of electricity. We expect the results of the revision in energy, and the current government has already started doing it. One of the conditions for supporting this government was precisely a revision of energy. We expect and demand concrete actions to re-negotiate the agreements for the so-called US power stations "TPP" "Maritsa East" 1 and 3, shutting down the plant plants and inefficient heat efficiency from the price of electricity, tightening the financial discipline in state-owned energy companies and reducing the losses of the National Electricity Company. We continue to believe that we need a new comprehensive framework of control over monopolies. In this regard, we will recall our proposals for amendments to the Law on Protection of Competition and the Law on Energy. Our next priority is to control the increased migration pressure against Bulgaria by completing the partition facilities along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The patriotic front does not accept the arguments for the lack of funds for the completion of the partition facilities and their adjoining road infrastructure, because the funds spent on these facilities will be returned within just one year of the funds saved to support these immigrants and the funds saved by the seconded policemen from inside the country to the border. We think it's ridiculous who's supposed to be guarding the borders between the institutions. Bulgaria must use all possibilities to limit the danger. There can be no scruples on the subject of the use of the Bulgarian army. Italy, Greece, Turkey these are only some of the examples in which the army assists the security of the state borders, and we have seen the French army, which went out to Paris for a week and took over the security of some of the public sites. A reminder that art. 132 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria provides for the Armed Forces to carry out security and defence tasks on critical infrastructure sites. The patriotic front will continue to push the government to adopt a National program to counter domestic crime, which continues to be a scourge for hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians living in small towns and villages. The state must deal with the violent groups of antisocial elements that feel unpunished and destroy the fruits of foreign labor, rob the property of the citizens and abuse the defenseless Bulgarian people. The patriotic front has already made requests for the preparation of such a National Program, which will combine the efforts of the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice and will be a catalyst for its creation. Together with the institutions in question, we will begin a debate on the expansion of the scope of inevitable defence, so that where the institutions are powerless people can protect their lives, honor and property themselves. The patriotic front will propose changes in legislation in order to exempt small and medium-sized enterprises from the regime of dependence and racketeering of control bodies. We will propose a solution for the problems with the long-standing racketeering by foreign retail chains over Bulgarian producers. We cannot rely on the upsurge of small and medium-sized businesses and without reforming the banking system to make loans more accessible and curb the greed of many of the credit institutions. The law must ensure a fair distribution of risk between a borrower and a borrower. The same applies to private court contractors. The next priority, which we have also highlighted mainly when we signed the General Declaration of the Government, is the demographic crisis. The efforts to tackle the demographic problem will be the other important focus in the work of the National Assembly, because the Bulgarians are among the fastest disappearing nations in the world. We have already overtaken the mortality countries in which war is waged, such as Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, and by birth rate we are 220th place from 240 countries. We have recorded in the government programme that a working strategy will be created to resolve this most important problem for the nation and we insist that the first steps be taken in this direction. We are starting consultations to support our proposals for a change in the Law on personal income taxes, which will allow working parents to feel the state care not with 20 BGN. effect per year and with 20 leva. monthly. This will lead to the creation of an active mechanism for supporting families who raise their children with care, socialize them, take care of their training, while working, import taxes and insurance and thus contribute to the budget. These are the main priorities of the Patriotic Front "NFSB and VMRO," in the next few months in this session. The government's involvement with them also depends on our parliamentary support for it. Ladies and gentlemen, during the last two months, including this meeting, the DPS has been rehearsing their rhetoric regarding the Patriotic Front, accusing us of national populism by generously offering their grant to the government if it is released from the votes of the Bulgarian patriots. I wanted to ask you something, Mr. Mestan, but he's not in the room. He likes to listen only to his voice and then walk out. So I wanted to ask him, because a few days ago, he said that his party was the minority rights party in Bulgaria, does he remember that during the three coalitions whose mandate was the DPS, the so-called Decade of Roma Inclusion was announced? This decade ends this year. Now I ask my fellow MPs and ministers who are probably listening to this meeting: did the gypsies integrate into the Bulgarian society? And are any of the problems related to this community solved? Don't be in such a hurry to say no! The DPS has solved some of this problem....................................................................................................... And nothing more! [[Private applause from PF.]] The same people who are accusing us of national populism again today and used half of their time to vilify the Patriotic Front are, in fact, the biggest national populists. A party that separates the Bulgarian society, only for the revival process, a party that embraced Erdogan and Davutoglu.... the carriers of Turkish nationalism and neo-osmanism, cannot be characterized in any other way except as nationalist and dangerously played with the Islamic religion. A party that holds hundreds of thousands of voters in feudalism, and talks about liberalism and Euro-Atlantic values, there is no greater demagogy than this! Actually, I'm not telling you anything new. That's what the New York Times wrote for you, except I don't see him posting your rebuttal. And again to you: you say yourself that the whole society sees you as enemies. From the Patriotic Front we do not consider you to be enemies, we consider you to be opponents and a factor that divides Bulgarian society. You know that no one likes you. If you correctly answer the question: why is it that after 25 years of participation in power no one likes you, perhaps in the next 25 years you won't? But this reasoning I leave for you, not only for beautifully written speeches that we listen to at each plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u11	Please navigate towards completion! A minute and a half you're talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u12	Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will conclude with a little sad story. Bulgarian was the first baby in Cyprus for 2015, and the first babies in Bulgaria were mothers at the age of 14 and 16, as the mother of the first born baby in Burgas fled. While children of young mothers are born in our country, a Bulgarian family seven years ago left Bulgaria to Cyprus to look for a more normal and happy life. Sounds like the shortest description of what's happening in our country sounds, unfortunately, like a national diagnosis. That should finally change. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This depends on all parties and all representatives of the National Assembly. If we continue to divide, if we continue to demagogy and populism, this diagnosis will become reality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. You requested a presence in Mr. Mestan's room. He's here asking for a personal explanation accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u14	He wasn't in the gym! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u15	There's no separation in the rules. The text is common. You've pointed out the specifics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Karakachanov needs to know that the political weight, authority and place in the political space of a party are determined by the will of the voters. Unlike Karakachanov, none of this parliamentary group jumps from ODS to Kovatchki, now to Simeonov to harm and find a place in one or another edition of the National Assembly. Each of these members of the DPS parliamentary group is here under half a million voters with unprecedented growth for a party of nearly 25%. This determines the political burden of the DPS, not your extremely nationalist push in the attitude towards the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. That's the lesson you need to learn! It's good for you! In addition, you owe a response to the Bulgarian society in the context of the events in Paris, a response which is due, by the way, by all your coalition partners. This year, unlike the European leaders who were on the Marsh of Solidarity, will you walk along with your deputy to Lukovmarsh? And what does this have to do with European Bulgaria?! This is the question of the day will you walk on Lukovmarsh this year in the center of Sofia? Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov wants a procedure in the manner of conduct. A line from the MP Ferihan Ahmedova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u17	The way he's doing it, he's asking for a procedure. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, please no personal assaults. Let's refrain from emotions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u18	Madam President, I take it that way, because I mentioned the name of the gentleman in question because he was absent from the Chamber. And he's using the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u19	You didn't see me!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u20	There are cameras, all of Bulgaria saw you. If this is how you think you're going to hide, you're lying to each other. He used the tribune to spread blasphemies and slanders against the Patriotic Front once again. We've never walked on any marches.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u21	That's a lie! You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u22	We have stepped only on the Bulgarian marches, which have defended the national interests of Bulgaria. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Mr. Mestan, I recommend that you read some historical literature and become literate. It's very easy to read the speeches that someone else writes them. Read books, learn and then give historical qualifications for one or another, or political qualifications for your colleagues in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u23	The speech is given by the representative of the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Dr. Kovatchka. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The past few days in Europe have been a startling reminder that our feeling about the world we live in is quite illusory. Examples of world division and world solidarity came from Paris, and they clearly show what society we need to build in Bulgaria a society based on solidarity, equality of all citizens, clearly oriented in defence of the Bulgarian national interest and united Bulgaria. In the first months of the existence of the Forty-third National Assembly, we were convinced that he was ruling a coalition that sometimes sacrificed its determination for reforms in the name of survival. However, we also see an opportunity in the dynamic majority of this National Assembly for important legislative changes that will improve people's lives, return their pride to being Bulgarians and show that the state is on the side of its citizens; changes that will illustrate a change of political model to dialogue, consensus and reasonable compromises. In the field of economics, the Bulgarian Democratic Center has prepared legislative changes that fully support the Bulgarian business, the creation of a competitive economy based on knowledge and modern technologies, energy for the benefit of the people, not a burden on the Bulgarians. This is one of our main priorities, achievable through changes in the Energy Act, which will make the processes in the sector understandable and worthy of society. The Bulgarian Democratic Center insists and proposes a package of amendments to the Waste Management Act and the Environmental Protection Act. This regulation must work to help municipalities and businesses in light procedures, while at the same time creating sustainable development and protection of national interests. The debate on pension reform at the beginning further increases the mistrust of citizens in the pension system. There is no necessary clarity because it is devoid of a strategic direction. Although it seems to give citizens the right to an informed choice, there are no necessary guarantees to create trust and security. Deprived from a strategic direction solutions create mistrust in the citizens. The state does not provide any guarantees of security and predictability of their incomes and old age. There must be a clear regulation on the activities of private pension funds. Health reform requires rapid measures, emergency assistance, a clear perspective for young doctors, especially a firm commitment of the state to their future and dignity. The Bulgarian Democratic Center will actively participate in the debate and legislative changes related to judicial reform. Only by raising public confidence in it will we be able to restore people's faith in institutions, and why not in politicians? Quick, effective and adequate penalties for criminals, regardless of profession, political, ethnic and other accessories. A real and working reform of the judiciary that will put an end to the negative reports and statistics about our country with what we are ready to be a proper partner in. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let's face how many times in the last month each of us has visited a theatre, an exhibition, a concert or another cultural event outside of protocol obligations. How often can this afford the average Bulgarians? Not to mention those who survive below the poverty line. The sphere of culture also urgently needs changes to enable artists to create a field of expression for a decent life. We therefore declare clearly: we want more money for culture and transparent funding on a project principle. The tension with the refugee wave, bequeathed to us by the previous government, must be resolved. This can only happen with changes in security and defence. Still, can the state handle it on its own? In our view, now is the time to put forward a long-standing idea for the creation of a civilian civil guard. When, if not now? The actions of ordinary people, honourable colleagues, volunteers and overcoming the effects of last year's floods have shown that civil valor can be a national priority. We lawmakers are the ones who need to appreciate and encourage the volunteering and willingness of society to be a participant, not a spectator in positive changes. Finally, I would like to return to the show of solidarity that the world has demonstrated since what happened in Paris. Against the backdrop of these events you must have been convinced once again how divided and shivered by hatred and mistrust Bulgarian society is. We need to think seriously about the language we serve and about the personal examples we give. We have an undisputed national value of the Bulgarians' cultural and religious tolerance. Let's not waste it lightly and realize that in the ever-divided world that's supposed to be globalizing, this legacy could be our biggest capital, both cultural and civilization. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, let the Bulgarians in the new parliamentary year really feel that we MPs are really their MPs. Let us offer a shared perspective for good governance and a prosperous society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Kovachka. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" has the chair of the group Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u26	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at each opening of the parliamentary session, I am witnessing an essay exercise. On the one hand, it is touching to return me to the youth years when I was a participant in a book club at the Students' House here, across the street from a building. But here is the National Assembly, there should be a competition in political responsibility and mature thinking. Unfortunately, I didn't hear that. Unfortunately, I didn't hear a real assessment of what was going on. We begin the year in a state of incredible international and internal picture of tension. We've witnessed a theatrical play in Paris. It was a low budget, unlike the one on 11.09.2001, which was with more money the type of Hollywood super production. This one was low budget, but it had a huge effect. They showed us this ridiculous video, they told us that some people were killed, we didn't see that; then they said that the terrorists were shot, and we didn't see that; then they urged the whole world to resent it. But I've been resentful ever since I was reminded of double standards. I resent hypocrisy. I don't accept the theatrical play that was called "Sharley," the play "Sharley." I do not agree with them explaining to me that Islamic radicals in the centre of Paris are conducting this operation and they have no support from French services, American or Israeli services. [[Heckling]] Take your time with the lines, I'll explain right now, because someone here said that we should be eloquent. Yes, I am ready to make Sunday school for all MPs, especially for those who believe that world history begins with the beginning of their term. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Islamic Radicalism, the one we are now witnessing, was not born of the Quran, but of the Central Intelligence Department of the United States. The one who will now say that I am developing some Americanophobia will read to him the Washington Post. * July 19, 1992. President Reagan signed in March 1985 the National Safety Directive 166, which provides secret military assistance for the mujahideen. Military supplies are up to 65,000. Tonne per year, plus a continuous flow of CIA and Pentagon specialists. End of quote "Washington Post" 19 July 1992 This is just one of the few quotes that I can start with, and really make it clear to everyone that what we call Islam today, Islamic radicalism, what is called today, and is the successor of Al-Qaeda, they are the successor of the mujahideen, was created by the CIA and the Americans themselves say and admit it because it cannot be hidden. Huge means, instructors, weapons were given to those who were called Mujahideen to fight against Soviet troops. Osama bin Laden was one of those. Osama bin Laden is a CIA agent and a creative agent. Madam President, if I may, I will give you an exhibition here, in the lobby of the National Assembly, with a series of photos of Zbignev Brzezinski, this great, sublimated political scientist, who they call teaching mujahideen to hold a machine. Brzezhinski yes, the same chess player with the big chess game. The Mujahideen were a product of the CIA. They became Al-Qaeda after that. Osama bin Laden himself was praised by the c. As a peace fighter in 1993. I'm not wrong, that's right: a peace fighter, a world peace fighter, Osama bin Laden. A few years later, he became the number one villain. Al-Qaeda was a CIA product. What is the state of Islam now? This is a collection of mercenaries. By the way, the vast majority of the "Islamic State" are not even Arabs or locals, they are mercenaries from around the world, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, and there is therefore enough, too much cognitive literature to support my arguments. The entire state of Islam is currently an instrument of the United States and Israeli services to work against Syria, to work against Iran, to work to stir up conflicts, and then to be the Peacekeeper. It's an old tactic. It was divided and conquered by the British Empire when she was alive. The American Empire is now implementing it. However, I wonder why in Bulgaria not a single commentator, not a single politician, except for my mercy and television, who is responsible for the office of Borisov, Kuneva, Karakachanov, Simeonov, Kasim Dal, Parvanov wants to close it in this year and is about to close it, the only television in which you can get a different perspective from the casino. It is yet to be closed by the government. In 2015, I expect nothing more from this government than police, colonialism and misery for the Bulgarian people. Of course, and an increase in the price of electricity that everyone agrees with. Yesterday you rejected our moratorium in the Energy Commission. Everyone, except for the attack, voted not to have a moratorium on the price of electricity, reformers, all of them, all of them! Lead, of course, with the ruling GERB party. So in 2015 I expect more misery and worse governance of Bulgaria. But since I am a believer and I believe that God has given free will to the people, I still rely on the government to reason. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's Islam, which is presented to us as the product of inter-civicisational hatred and clash, is guided, as I said, by the United States' special services. What were the European leaders supposed to do the other day? Instead of gathering on this ridiculous, infantile walk in the center of Paris "150 statesmen, guarded by 5,000 police officers, they had to tell the American President clearly: "Stop your dangerous geopolitical games! Stop burning military outbreaks in the Middle East, Ukraine and wherever you please, because you will also burn your rug! You are no longer the untouchable empire overseas that cannot be reached in the event of war. No, you will be reached. You're gonna burn the whole world down and it's gonna be the end of the world. Therefore, Mr. President of the United States, stop this policy of yours or we will impose an economic crisis on you across Europe, on the United States, and we will not cancel it until you stop your dangerous geopolitical game. This is what the European leaders of Obama should have said, who, by the way, was absent from this glorified march of I don't know what. But they didn't say it. They obediently ordered to demonstrate empathy for what? To ridicule the Holy Trinity? God forbid! God forbid, I would never support anyone who ridicules in their cartoons the Holy Trinity. I can never, in any way, posthumously say I'm Charlie. I'm anti-Charlie because this mockery of religion is the biggest sin a man can commit on his conscience! Biggest! [[Applause by "Attacka."]] Of course, I don't justify terrorism. But again, whose terrorism is this? He's not on the Qur'an. It belongs to the American and Israeli services. Before me is a statement by a great American intellectual, Noam Chomsky. He says: "No Iran, the United States and Israel are a threat to peace. " - Noam Chomsky, a world-famous scientist. Dozens are such quotes. Dozens are the arguments I can give in support of my thesis. And I ask: how long will the Bulgarian political elite move on the surface, react infantilely and not make the real assessment of what is happening in the world because it affects Bulgaria? They're returning 7,500 of these same refugees as they call them. These are similar... Among them are extremely dangerous terrorists who can be set on fire to act in Bulgaria when they are ordered. And they will act because the policy of the United States is to destroy Europe. It's anti-European. I therefore address the missing Prime Minister here, the ministers who are absent at the opening of this session. The president's not here either, of course. I address the rulers: Gentlemen of the European Union, tomorrow, when Carrie comes, John, not Jim, the US Secretary of State and his deputy Mrs. Fuck the European Union and when the British Foreign Minister also comes, tell him clearly that Bulgaria does not want to be a vassal of this policy to save yet something that can be saved from your conscience. Do it, you will have credit for the Bulgarian people! If you do not, you will bring Bulgaria into huge problems. We'll pay a huge price. But I already doubt that the Bulgarian people have the power and resources to pay this price. Don't be a vassal to Carrie, who comes here why? To get us to join the transatlantic trade agreement, to bring in the GMOs that comes here to make us extract shale gas and Dobrudzha become a great landscape and that comes here to make us a platform for war against Russia from the territory of Ukraine. Those are Carrie's targets. It does not come to raise the standard of the Bulgarian, to reduce its electricity or to subsidize Bulgaria by several billion, as the US gives Israel every year, for the New Year. Carrie is coming to bring Bulgaria into trouble and problems. The responsibility of the Bulgarian statesmen should be: Mr. Carey, we do not want to lead this policy. If they do, I tell you, they will earn the respect and appreciation of the Bulgarians. They'll make history. I still hope I'm not naive, I've seen a lot in my life, I've had enough political experience, I know what I'm saying and calling is not going to happen. However, I am obliged to call without putting a ounce of bitterness, jealousy, or any negative attitude into it. We are probably the most consistent opposition group in this Parliament, albeit small. But in this case, I say with genuine sincere concern for the rulers: deny Carrie what she's going to offer you tomorrow. Maintain the sovereignty of Bulgaria! Say that we are a European country! Tell him we don't want to fight Russia! Tell him we don't want sanctions against Russia! Tell him that we do not want the transatlantic agreement because it is bad for us and we do not want shale gas development because it is harmful for Bulgaria. Then you will be real Bulgarian statesmen. If you do not, you will remain vassals of colonial masters and this will bring Bulgaria into even deeper misery and problems. How do we get the real patriots out of there, I don't know. But we don't despair. We are fighters, we will not despair, but it will be more difficult for us. So make things easier. It's still possible! Tomorrow may be too late! Thank you for your attention! [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group.......
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, January 14, 2015 is a symbolic date for members of the ABB Parliamentary Group not only because the second session of the Forty-third National Assembly is opened, the activity of which is entrusted with great political responsibility and public expectations for something better. January 14th for us is symbolic and because exactly one year ago on this date ABB was established. On this occasion, I allow myself from this high tribune to congratulate with the one-year birthday all who contributed to the presence of ABB in parliament and working for its successful activity. By creating ABB and developing its programme and priorities, we also formulated the basic requirements for our activity. Let's remind them. Firstly, the ABB should be the necessary political corrective in making responsible decisions in parliament. Secondly, the ABB, in its relations with other political forces, should be based on reasonable dialogue, tolerance and tolerance to differences in opinion, seeking maximum understanding of issues important for the well-being of society and the state. Thirdly, the ABB should ensure for its activities in achieving political stability in the country, restoring and developing statehood in it. I can rightly say that for this year, in particular, for the time of our work in Parliament, we have not, for a moment, stepped down from these plays and the parameters of behaviour that we have set ourselves. In this regard, I will allow myself to recall part of my speech in the election by the parliament of a new government. I will quote almost verbatim: the government that we are choosing today is the result of a new approach in the relations between the parliamentary parties, I would say, unknown for more than 20 years between the political forces to which the people had entrusted the country's governance. The essence of this new approach is that the government's choice was reached first and foremost through dialogue between the parliamentary parties. I repeat, a dialogue, honourable Members, based on three essential factors, firstly, on respect and tolerance for each other's positions and ideas; secondly, on openness and transparency of the negotiations under way; thirdly, patience in seeking reasonable compromises for the benefit of the state and its people, and not in the battle for the close party or personal interest. It would be correct to point out that the main role in realising this new approach of political dialogue and seeking understanding was the party's mandate carrier. However, I cannot help but point out, my fellow Members, that during our joint work between the government coalition and the supporting government, political forces have also shown some poor examples of ways of making decisions that are not in the spirit and are contrary to this welcomed, not only by me, a new approach. I will only point out two examples. First example. This is the adoption of the amendments to the Law on Tax on Individuals, which practically restored the old practice of non-taxable minimum. I'm not talking about the nature of the decision here. As an economist, I fully understand the economic logic of the importers by being a flat tax, so that this tax should be in a pure form flat, and for this purpose remove the total-taken economically sloppy attempt of the previous government to circumvent and try to introduce an indeterminate minimum. That's not what this is about. It is that one of the first legislative changes was in the area of tax legislation, although in the agreement reached and in the Programme Declaration of Government support is written, I quote: "Conservation of tax levels. And also, I quote: "Detail economic analysis and public debate on overall tax policy. It is obvious that the adoption of amendments to the Law on the Taxation of Individuals is contrary to those texts recorded in the Agreement and in the Declaration of Support and lead not only in the way of the infringement, but also to the very depreciation of the agreements reached. The second example relates to rapid changes in pension fund legislation. What's the problem? In any case, it is not that importers of the Bill constantly justify it with the question: what is wrong with having given people the right to choose which fund to provide? Of course it's okay. ABB is even more about expanding the right to choose. Our disapproval comes not from the essence of the changes, but from the way these changes were adopted, mainly for two reasons. The first reason is from a purely management point of view. When there is a reform in an entire system, such as the pension system, no changes are made to a single element of the pension system without a functional connection to the other elements of the system being achieved, otherwise the system is debalanced and any subsequent change in it must comply with the parameters of the previous change made. The reform of a system that is being done in a piece can hardly be a successful reform in general. The second reason for our disapproval is again related to the way these legislative changes have been made. This was spoken of by many different political forces. I can only add that in the ABC Parliamentary Group we learned about the last minute changes that were to come when the issue had already been resolved. This can hardly be defined as a good example of partnership and interaction, but even less of dialogue between partners. If the first of these examples leads to the nullification of the agreements reached, then the second example also leads to the unpleasant erosion of the foundation of trust and loyalty between partners. I deeply hope that these examples are single and unintentionally made, that they are not the result of refusing the new approach in the political relations that I have spoken about, but are the product of errors in building and developing between the political forces of the coalition partnership and the partnership to support the government. This confidence gives me a series of other positive examples of collegiality in the partnership, and for example I will mention the first meeting held yesterday for the Second Session of the Conference of Presidents of those political forces, which has passed into an extremely constructive dialogue and spirit of tolerance in all the issues discussed. In my presentation, mentioning the word "tolerance" repeatedly, I feel morally obliged to express the empathy of the ABB Parliamentary Group, and I am convinced of the other Members of Parliament, the grief and resentment of the citizens of France and of all the free-thinking people of the world. The attack on the Parisian weekly Charlie is a typical expression of the complete lack of tolerance and tolerance from one ethnicity and from one religion to another ethnicity, religion, culture and lifestyle. Unfortunately, colleagues, during the past season in the parliamentary hall and beyond, there were some speeches from parliamentarians who could hardly be related to requirements and understandings of tolerance to different ethnicities, different religion, different culture, different language and lifestyle. This is not a good sign for society, it is not a good sign of peace and security in people's everyday lives, it is not a good sign at all of public and political life in the country, and it is not a good sign of the security of the state. I think the case of Charlie ebdo is a strong example of what this lack of tolerance can lead to. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My fellow Members, I am convinced that we will show political and state wisdom if during the new parliamentary season there are no speeches in this spirit, thus showing our tolerance for differences in ethnicity, religion, language, lifestyle and culture not only in parliament but also in real life, as has been for decades on Bulgarian lands. I wish everyone good luck during the second session of parliament! Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u29	Thank you, Professor. Borisov. That concludes the part of today's sitting where we heard the declarations on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Please turn off the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio. We are continuing with a legislative part of our program. As the first item on the proposal of BSP left Bulgaria follows: FIRST READING THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY CODE. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Here you go, Dr. Ademov. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] The committees will be respectively points 3 and 4 as these are in the order of art. 50, para. 8 for the first Wednesday of every month, Mr. Velchev. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u30	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 454-01-43, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 17 December 2014 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importer Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Bralla Nineva, Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Petya Malakova, State Expert at the Directorate of Labour Law, Social Security and Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, experts from the various state institutions, representatives of the social partners. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov from the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria. The draft proposed: maintaining retirement conditions in 2015 at the age level and insurance service in 2014; creating an opportunity for early retirement with a reduced pension size; increasing the pension rate for persons who obtained the right to a retirement pension for completed age and required insurance service but continued to work. The importers stress that the proposals are motivated by the average life expectancy in Bulgaria, which is 7 years lower than the average level in the European Union, as well as difficult access to the pension system. They point out that the bill will not have negative consequences on the financial sustainability of the pension system and argue with a long-term actuarial forecast prepared by the National Insurance Institute in relation to a previous similar bill. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill and believes that the proposals for changes included in the bill are better discussed in the context of the overall concept of changes in the pension system. An opinion is expressed on the proposal for a reduced pension as a retreat from Bulgaria's commitments to limit early retirement. With regard to the proposal to introduce flexible retirement conditions by the National Insurance Institute, they consider the correct proposed reduction of 0.4% of the pension amount for each under-month. However, at the same time, the data show that the change in 2015 would cost the budget 80 million. BGN more costs for pensions, which is made in the estimate of about 34 000 people who would benefit from this regime for flexible retirement conditions. The DPS Parliamentary Group believes that there are different forms of flexible retirement in many European countries. The problem is that in Bulgaria early retirement is strongly advocated in national law. On the other hand, this is a good basis for seeking the best form of implementation of all the European Commission's recommendations on pension reform. The discussion on these issues should continue until bringing together the best for our country model. During a meeting of the Committee on Insurance Relations at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation held on 17 December 2014, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry agreed with the proposed changes and all other members disagreed. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to support the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 454-01-43, submitted by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u31	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. I'm opening the debate. On behalf of the importers? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u32	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, have a happy, healthy and controversial 2015 year! From BSP left Bulgaria we start this calendar year and this session of parliament with a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Social Security. These proposals reflect our consistent view of what changes are necessary in pension legislation. Mostly in this bill, we have two proposals. The first is to freeze the internship and retirement age as they were in 2014. Our arguments: in recent years we are constantly increasing the internship and retirement age, which has put a generation to a major test and, as a result, has not resulted in improvement, stabilisation of the system and improvement of the deficit in the NSI. Besides this argument, we also present the argument that in Bulgaria workers actually retire later than the majority of the countries in the European Union. After 2012, this difference has become particularly tangible and in particular the real age at which people in Bulgaria retire is 64 years and five months for men and 61 years and three months for women. We should also bear in mind the fact that life expectancy is shorter in Bulgaria than in the European Union, by about five years according to the latest data we have. For men it is 70.62 years old and for women 77.55 years old. Our second proposal is for the so-called "flexible early retirement." Eurostat's data on this point shows that more than half a million Bulgarians between 54 and 64 years of age are economically inactive in 2013. These are people of pre-retired age who cannot find work due to this age, are not subject to re-qualification or re-qualification programmes do not cover them and they remain without any income. Our bill provides for a combination of underage and internship of a total of 24 months and an opportunity to obtain a lower pension at the request of this person, if he decides to retire, by 0.4 per cent for each failing month, and this overall can reach a reduction of the pension by up to 9.6 per cent. In order to be argued before you in the previous term, when we proposed the same bill, we requested the actuarial estimates from the National Insurance Institute to see how this would affect the financial situation of the NSI, the system at all, and how many individuals would cover such a bill. The individuals who would take advantage of the possibilities of this bill have divided into three groups. The first group is those who are over the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code, but they do not have up to two years of internship. According to our data, this is about three thousand people and the additional funds that are needed, then calculated for 2014, are about 5.9 million. lv. The second group are persons who have sufficient insurance experience but have no retirement age. This is an additional number, estimated at new pensions around ten thousand and would cost the budget 24.6 million. lv. The third group of persons are those who do not reach internship and age combined. It is difficult to predict what this group is because there is no data on the insurance history of these persons, but the overall assessment of the National Insurance Institute for the effect of these measures is: it would affect between 13 and 15 thousand people and require additional resources for 2015 of 30.5 million. lv. Once again, I note that on this t. 2 The reduced pension will be obtained, eventually if we accept these changes, for the rest of life by 0.4% per month. Once again, we are addressing you to adopt this bill. Moreover, this is a conversation about the new year with which we ended the old year and the old session. This conversation awaits us, this debate awaits us and the decisions on these issues await us. They are expected by the citizens of Bulgaria and are part of the pension reform we have all requested, covering, as you can see, a serious number of people and solving at least two issues. People who are short of age and internship, this allows them to acquire the right to retirement earlier, without damaging the budget of the NSI and hence the state budget, according to the calculation of the NSI and the state institutions. We give them an opportunity to have a normal income in pre-retirement age. The other question about the internship and age enables a serious part of Bulgarian citizens to acquire a pension right in 2015 with our rejection of your two main arguments. The fact that the European Union requires us not to have such an opportunity? I told you, the numbers which show that the conditions for retirement in Bulgaria are worse than those in the European Union. And your other argument against our bill, expressed in the Commission, was the lack of funds in the NSI. We have provided you with an alternative proposal to raise funds in the NSI, which would not harm its budget. This is our proposal to increase the maximum threshold of social security contributions. In addition to our political position, which has always been consistent on these two issues from BSP left Bulgaria, we have our economic, financial, social and human arguments to support these two proposals by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Before I give the floor for speech, let me introduce you to the time available to the parliamentary groups: the political party's parliamentary group GERB has 30 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria You have the floor to speak. Mr. Chukolov of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party took the first place.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u34	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! We are again discussing what is happening in the pension system in Bulgaria and again see how the respective minister, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, is absent. This law, so to explain it to viewers and listeners who would look and listen, is reflected also in the media, this bill enters the plenary and we examine it under para. 8 This article, which gives priority to the opposition once a month to submit its own law. The admission of this bill to the House is done this way. In a little while, at 11:30 there will be a break... whether we have come to the vote or there will be no vote, that is the way things remain. And the law actually regulates what happens in the pension system. This problem concerns 2 million and 200,000 Bulgarians. A lot of these people do, they vote. Perhaps you, too, have met with them during the campaign, discussed the proposals of the parties concerned on pension reform, how to make pensions to be higher, people's old age to be better accordingly. Now in some way it happens that, behold, this law enters the Chamber. We're discussing it, of course we should discuss it. From now on, I say that we from the Party of Attack will support our colleagues from the BSP. Yeah, it's a small step in the right direction, but it's still a step in that direction. And you have to go this way. So far, what did pension reform mean? Retirement age increase. This is actually what we call a pension reform. The BSP colleagues compare the situation in Europe. Let me tell you, we're looking a little bit wider at this. We're also looking at the situation in Africa. There are countries in Africa that just beat us, things are better there. Look where we got it, just because it's like this, we can talk about anything else, anything else we can fight about in this room, but if it comes down to pensions, it'll just get in there, but on para. 8. Now I understand, I have listened carefully to the words of the Chairman of the Social Committee Mr. Ademov. The Commission does not support the bill at this stage because a comprehensive concept has to be developed. That's right, that's the way it should be. Who makes this concept? This morning at the Conference of Presidents, I realized that this undisclosed form, which apparently exists in the Bulgarian political life, is a four-page or council of parties and coalitions in the ruling majority, these four parliamentary groups are gathering and discussing something, reaching a conclusion, setting some deadlines, some intentions, and the other opposition parties naturally do not know. So I'm gonna open a clamp. At the Chairman's Council, I asked President Tsacheva to at least inform us what is happening at these secret meetings that you make and organize. At least let us know, because the Social Committee voted against this law, because it does not fit the framework that is set on this four-page. The reform to be made in the pension system should in no way be at the expense of the Bulgarian pensioner. How we will think about it, how we will do it is our task, but we should not increase the retirement age again and other indicators that will lead to a decline in the standard of living of the Bulgarian pensioners. Again, we owe these people a great debt. I've said it from this tribune many times and I'm going to keep saying it. These people have built this Bulgaria, which for 25 years, and now it's looting, looting, looting. They see with their eyes what they have built, how they disappear. Let's make sure that in their old age, at least a little bit of lighten up these people in the years of life they have left. I therefore call on every party to be the number one target, one priority. I remind you that we are talking about 2 million and 200,000 Bulgarian citizens, as I said. We don't have to minimize that in any way. Prepare concepts! Let's do this, let's do what all the other countries from the soccer camp are over. They don't have such miserable pensions. In Africa, there are countries where there are higher pensions than in Bulgaria. Everywhere they manage to deal with this, and we here in this small Bulgaria, say that we cannot handle it, it is just an insult to us as MPs and for the entire Bulgarian people that he has not chosen 240 people in this National Assembly to decide the fate of the other hundreds-thousands. That's our opinion from Ataka. Again, we will vote for what our BSP colleagues propose. This is one small step in the right direction. But what we have to tell you is that we have to walk bold steps in this direction, make these people meet their old age with dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Georgi Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! When it comes to the problem of the ageing population in Bulgaria, in Europe and in the world, the most often given solution is to increase the retirement age. In my opinion, however, the most likely result of such a decision is an increase in inequality between poor and rich. This is not only my opinion, but also the opinion of leading economists. According to the magazine "Economist" representatives of the poorer groups of society for a number of reasons do not study at colleges and universities, respectively work more time compared to the rich and live shorter. Again, according to world survey data, this means less time living as pensioners. And we, on all social and health indicators, are firmly last in the European Union: the worst and expensive health care, the lowest wages, the lowest pensions, and the very least, only in a negative direction. In these difficult times, many topics sink into political speaking, although immediate action is needed in the direction of easing people. One such issue is pension reform. Remember the pension reform of the right, which started more than 15 years ago. It pursues the stabilisation of the system at the expense of the rights of the insured and all actions are subject only to its fiscal stability and not to the adequacy of benefits and pensions. From 2000 to 2009 the age of men increased by three years, the social security service by 12 years. In women, the age has increased by five years and the insurance service has increased by 9 years. There is no such steep increase for a period of 9 years in Europe! A generation of Bulgarians have already suffered it and would hardly accept a new increase in internship and age. Despite the stated intentions by the end of March or by mid-2015 to have a clear and comprehensive vision of how the pension system will develop, it became clear that the governors of the quadruple coalition do not have one. You have made it clear, gentlemen in charge, with the adoption of the 2015 state social security budget, where there are no beginnings for any long-term policies. We have seen partial and, for the most part, chaotic actions behind which Djankov's philosophy of absoluteization of fiscal and macroeconomic stability is once again visible at the expense of the most vulnerable groups of the population. Only a month ago you adopted the state budget for 2015 and the state social security budget. Then I took the liberty of saying that this is a budget of discrimination. I'm saying it now. In the pension sphere again on the back of the most mass category Why did you leave the conditions unchanged for first and second categories of work and for those working in the power offices?! Maybe to secure your social peace?! You have also created a scandal - pre-Christmas pension system has been shaken by surprising proposals for changes between first and second reading of the state social security budget. I am referring to the changes to the Social Security Code, with which you practically liquidate the second pillar in the pension system and the aims only to nationalise the accumulated in the universal pension funds 7, 8 billion. lv. It is true that after serious opposition and public pressure, you have frozen the retirement age of 60 years and 8 months for women and 63 years and 8 months for men, but due to the other scandalous proposals somehow aside from public attention, the increase in the retirement service required for third-grade workers remained. It is clear to everyone that the acceleration of pension reform at the end of 2011 by simultaneously increasing the retirement age and the necessary insurance service to acquire pension rights have significantly limited access to the pension system. This did not lead to a tangible stabilisation of the system, but only to an increase in the real................................................................................................. As a result, the workers in Bulgaria actually retire later than the majority of the countries in the European Union. This difference has been becoming more tangible since the beginning of 2012, for which the higher required insurance service is the reason. The average age at which people in Bulgaria retire towards the end of 2013 is 64 years and 5 months for men and 61 years and 3 months for women and is significantly higher than the average for the European Union, where for men it is 61 years and 7 months, and for women it is 61 years and 3 months. Therefore, by freezing the age, but by increasing the required retirement internship, you are once again raising the real average age at which the Bulgarians retire. When talking about retirement age, the average life expectancy should also be taken into account. The length of life in the European Union has definitely increased compared to the 1990s, but the substantial differences between the countries remain. The average life expectancy in the 28 EU countries is 79.2 years, which is 5.1 years more than in the 1990s. You probably know that the countries with the greatest life expectancy in the European Union are Spain, Italy, France and Germany. Of course, you can imagine that Bulgaria along with Romania, Latvia and Lithuania are in line with an average life expectancy below 75 years. In Bulgaria, between 1992 and 2012, life expectancy grew by only three years, unlike, for example, Estonia and the Czech Republic, where it grew by 7 and 6 years respectively. Women in the European Union tend to live longer than men. The duration of life in women is 82.2 years and in men is 76.1 years. Where are we? Well, 83th place in the world! The estimated average life expectancy in Bulgaria is 73.84 years. For men it is 70.24 and for women it is 77.65 years or simply, people in Bulgaria live by 5.36 years less than the average level in the European Union. After all these facts, and I can also state more, it is clear that we need to stop all thoughtless, unmotivated, non-consensive and unacceptable measures in the system that lead to serious tensions in society! I and my fellow Members are aware of the complex political and economic situation in the country, the importance of continuing reforms in the pension system and their key importance for the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian economy. However, you will agree that it is imperative, along with stopping the increase in retirement age, that we stop and that the increase in the retirement insurance service required to stop them from considering the different options for pension reform and adopting the most acceptable option for society to apply in the future, no matter which political formation is in power. Together, to build a concept of the pension system that guarantees citizens' social rights and enhances the quality of insurance protection, so that pension insurance does not generate poverty and social exclusion, but provides a decent life for people of retirement age, not a miserable existence. I ask you the question: is it possible to make at least one reform that is not cruel to people?! This brings me to the second party of our proposal a flexible form of retirement. The draft proposed by us provides for an opportunity to be given to people who do not have an internship and have a lower age in combination, i.e. their sum is up to 24 months compared to the retirement conditions required under art. 68 of the Social Security Code, to retire under worse conditions. In this way, it will be possible to choose persons, including those who are long-term unemployed or otherwise unemployed and without the right to unemployment benefits, to retire early rather than looking for options to receive other social payments, such as disability pensions, social benefits and so on. Difficulty in accessing the pension system and the adverse processes of the labour market contribute to a significant contingent from a pre-retirement workforce that has no alternative and remains unemployed. Along with young people who start their careers, these people are one of the most risky groups and the most affected by unemployment. Statistics, including Eurostat, show that more than one million Bulgarians between 55 and 64 years of age were economically inactive in 2013, most of which were women. There will be no difference and the data for 2014. The theme "Unemployment" is particularly sensitive to them, as if they are out of work, they find it difficult to find one. It is also difficult to get a pension, as retirement conditions are tightened by each passing year. These people are not wanted in the labour market and no one would invest in their re-qualification but have gone their way of work with dignity. It is therefore necessary, through such a flexible form of early retirement, to give them the opportunity to start a pension earlier and lead a normal life. In the bill, these worse conditions are reflected as a reduced amount of pension. We propose that the amount of the early pension should be determined by the normal pension formula, with the reduction of 0.4 per cent for each month of underage or internship, thus reaching a maximum reduction of 9.6%. The proposal is correct because the calculation of the correction coefficient is in line with the average duration of receipt of pensions and the time for the reimbursement of these early costs in the budget of state social security and, from an actuarial point of view, the amount of reduction by 0.4% for each insufficient month is also correct, as the total amount of pensions that would have been paid to the person to end his life in the event of retirement when the legal retirement age was reached and in the case of retirement of two years earlier but of reduced size is approximately the same as the intended reduction. Our proposal has both financial and economic logic. Practice shows that such opportunities exist in private pension funds. Figuratively speaking, it is like granting a loan to instalments for two years, which is then paid through pension deductions. If the most simple and general estimates of the reduction in the amount of the pension in the current expected life expectancy in Bulgaria are made, it will become clear that a private pension fund would probably offer very little less favourable conditions. The exact initial costs, without being dramaticly large, are difficult to predict. However, overall, given the increase in life expectancy, this measure would have, in the medium term, a practically zero budgetary effect, and the additional social benefit of it, apart from the possibility of choosing future pensioners, is also the faster release of jobs for young people. Late retirement partly eases the pressure on the pension system, but, on the other hand, it retains longer jobs that would otherwise naturally be released for future generations. All of this can be motivated by the fact that youth employment is supported and in the future the pressure on pension, social and other public systems is prevented, and these young people will now rely on social assistance because they will not have enough retirement experience. It is also clear that those who will benefit from the flexible form of retirement will not do so because of the fact that they want to receive a reduced pension throughout their life, but because the labour market lacks employment for people in pre-retirement age. I would recall that such a similar possibility of flexible retirement with reduced pension size was introduced in mid-1990 for certain categories of persons. It's about art. 9 of the repealed Pension Act, which lasted about two years, then was repealed. In conclusion, it is unacceptable for the economic and financial burdens to fall mostly on the most vulnerable and poor part of the society. The people of pre-retirement age and pensioners, because according to our Constitution Bulgaria is a social state, and this implies social justice and social responsibility to be at the centre of state policies. This has required us from the BSP as a party, among whose fundamental values are equal rights, social justice and solidarity, to review the requirements for acquiring a pension right and to consider providing opportunities for choosing non-retirement persons to retire before established retirement age. Our conviction is that a change in the requirements for acquiring the right to pension and introducing new ones, tailored to the length of life and condition of the labour market, as well as to the health of the Bulgarian citizens conditions for retirement. I do not address colleagues from GERB and from the Reformation Block because they are right. It's their policy, and I don't expect them to hear me. I address my colleagues from the other parliamentary groups of the ABB, of the Ataka, of the Bulgarian Democratic Center and of the Patriotic Front. Remove the weight of the transition from the shoulders of this generation, which with deprivation during the years of socialism built Bulgaria, and now again with deprivation pays the success of the transition. Yeah, that's definitely hard, but it's worth a try. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova. After her, Mr. Enchev. There'll probably be no time left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u38	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, when proposing amendments to the social security legislation, we should not be guided only by populist goals and declaration of election promises in order to appeal to the Bulgarian voters. In this case, we should not forget that the Bulgarian pension system is facing serious challenges and difficulties arising as a result of a number of factors such as population ageing, demographic crisis and the serious deficit in the pension fund. These factors inevitably have a negative impact on state social security and, in particular, on our pension system. We should also not forget that the Bulgarian pension system operates on a cost-covering principle. This means that workers' social security money should cover pension costs. But, in practice, the income from contributions currently barely covers 50% of the pension costs and the deficit is covered every month by the state budget. Demographic trends related to ageing, increasing life expectancy and reducing people at working age lead to negative consequences for social security, as the period for obtaining a pension is growing and the number of people receiving a pension is increasing. The big problem of the Bulgarian pension system is related to its uncertainty and its instability. It therefore needs financial stability which will lead to an increase in revenue and a reduction in expenditure. It is no coincidence in 2012 that the GERB government adopted changes in the pension system in order to stabilize the system and reduce pressure on the insurance system. We can't get high pensions without reforming the pension system. I have repeatedly said that changes in the pension system should not be made in pieces, namely here today we will get something, tomorrow another. These changes should be made in a package, in full, as we intend to do in 2015. One of the important decisions taken by the government at the end of the year, supported by consensus, is to reach a long-term solution by 31 March on issues related to increasing retirement age and all other components of the pension system, including the issue of early retirement. The idea is to seek consent not only from the social partners, but also from the parliamentary political parties represented. The aim is to develop long-term and lasting decisions of the pension system to be protected from subsequent changes. The most important thing is to achieve financial stability and security, to have clarity and predictability for current and future pensioners. And last but not least, to achieve the so-called adequacy of the pensions received. We therefore believe that the proposed bill should be discussed in the context of all other proposals for changes in the area of the pension system. Next, the changes proposed by BSP colleagues in the Social Security Code, namely the freezing of retirement conditions in terms of age and internship and the extension of early retirement opportunities in the case of a shortage of 24 months of social service and/or age under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is not foreseen and voted on in the Budget of the State Social Security for 2015. We do not support the idea of introducing early retirement for persons working under the conditions of a third category of work in the case of underemployment and/or up to 24 months of age. The main problem for the large deficit of the Bulgarian pension system is the too many opportunities, which gives Bulgarian legislation for early retirement. The recommendations of the European Commission and the World Bank towards Bulgaria are to limit these opportunities for early retirement and not allow opening of the door of new cases what you propose. With this proposal in practice you are expanding early retirement by allowing women and men in Bulgaria who work under the conditions of third category work to retire two years earlier. Moreover, by giving an early retirement opportunity, you are practically proposing a reduction in retirement age. This is something unheard of so far in European practice, rather than increasing age, as is the European and global trend due to population ageing, you are proposing a very reverse reduction in retirement age. In the reasons you point out that the proposed changes will lead to a solution to the problem of long-term unemployed people at pre-retirement age. That's an absolutely unacceptable argument. Instead of working people and getting high incomes, wages, you deliberately push them to retire earlier, to enter the pension system and for the rest of their lives to receive low pensions. I mean, instead of offering them a job, you're offering them to be miserable. I believe that this is hypocrisy against Bulgarian citizens. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the proposals made do not correspond to the European Commission's main recommendations for continuing the reform of our pension system, limiting mostly the opportunities for early retirement and preventing such new forms. In relation to everything that has been said so far, we in the GERB Parliamentary Group will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u39	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u40	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I apologize for the reply, but I can't help but think that the problems of the pension system are clear to you, to the parliamentary group, only that it has become clear to me whether the problems of the Bulgarians are clear to you, to those people who are in pre-retirement age, at whom we have been constantly increasing age for 15 years. And when the only impact on the pension system is at the entrance and exit, mostly at the exit where Bulgarian citizens take it. I would not agree with you that we are reducing our age with flexible retirement. Firstly, it has no budgetary effect at all on damaging the budget. Secondly, it is not true that it is unprecedented because it exists in seven European countries. I am personally familiar with the possibility of such flexible retirement in Britain and Germany. So you're fooling people. It's not true that he's gone. It's in Europe. When the only action in the pension system is increasing age, it is appropriate to allow people to retire a little earlier. You say everything is done in pieces. Yeah, it's been true since the 1990s in the pension system, it's all in pieces. You, as part of the ruling majority, would you say when, although you have declared by the end of March or by the middle of the year, there will be a clear vision of pension reform in general and of the pension system? Are you committed to telling us when it will be a fact for Bulgaria to have a pension system, a pension reform, consensual and acceptable by the whole society? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Second line? I won't. Are you going to use a hole? Here you go. Mrs. Angelova has the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u42	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Gokov, honourable colleagues! Mr. Gokov, I know to pain the problems not only of the Bulgarian pension system, but of the Bulgarian citizens as well as of the current and future pensioners. Yes, we declare that this year, by 31 March, we will develop long-term changes in the pension system.. such that they will not be changed, regardless of which government will then be in power. The bill you are proposing at the moment was proposed at the end of 2013. Then it was not supported by your DPS partners and could not pass in the Chamber. Now you expect there to be support from the other political forces. I am convinced that this bill will not pass again. I declare that we will make lasting decisions. And what did you do in the past 2014 after there was an Advisory Council with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy? No proposal was made for this year, so people were in the dark. They didn't know how to retire in 2015. Your proposals in this bill are a pure dose of populism, because they will in no way solve the problems of the Bulgarian pension system, will not increase the incomes of the current Bulgarian pensioners, on the contrary. This means that if these suggestions of yours are accepted, people will receive low pensions, because the younger age and the smaller internship inevitably lead to a lower pension. I don't want my mother to get a low pension, I don't want her to be miserable, so there must be changes in the pension system. There must be reform in order for all of us to receive decent European pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now stop for a break. I inform you that at the Club of the National Representative will be opened the photo exhibition "A hundred years of Bulgarian cinema" which presents footage from the filming period of 100 emblematic titles of Bulgarian cinema. It is dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the premiere of the first Bulgarian feature film "Bulgaran" is a gallant of Vasil Gendov. All MPs are invited to attend the opening of this exhibition. We proceed at 12:00 with blitz control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u44	We move on to the control of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers scheduled for every first Wednesday of the month: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I'm reminding you of the procedure. Each parliamentary group has the right to ask up to two questions. The order of questioning is the size of the parliamentary groups. Every MP who asks a question has two minutes for it. Reply from a representative of the executive power, from the cabinet three minutes; two minutes for a replica and follow two minutes for the duplicate. The hearing is continuing. She will first ask her question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Ms. Kotseva. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u45	Honourable Chairman, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! On the agenda of the state entered activity, a formula is found.. effective, pragmatic, for the realization of energy renovation of multifamily residential buildings. Our country is in the most negative rankings for energy-inefficient buildings. Unfortunately, our country is very low in energy efficiency, and it is a top priority for the European Union. The thematic objective 4 of the European Union for the current programming period relates to measures to support the transition to a low-carbon economy. With the adoption of the 2015 budget, the state was set to provide a fund of 1 billion. lv. This resource is serious. In this regard, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, please inform us: when do you think it will be possible to launch the National Energy Efficiency Programme, announced and as the main priority of the government, and how will it be linked to the Operational Program for Regional Development 2014 - 2020, which also provides a significant resource for energy renovation of Bulgarian homes? What results do you expect from the successful implementation of these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u46	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Kotseva, in public speech training one of the first instructions is that you never thank yourself for a question because it is an unnecessary reply. However, I thank you for the question, because on this topic we need to talk a lot, and we need to talk a lot, with one main goal... all the government's intentions to reach as many citizens as possible. Because the great pain we have at the time when we talk about rehabilitation, about renovation, about energy efficiency measures in relation to multifamily residential buildings is not so much cash resources. We also currently have 50 million under the Operational Programme (Regional Development) for this programming period. The main problem is the consolidation of co-owners and decision-making to apply for repair, rehabilitation and energy efficiency measures at entry and block level. That's the main topic, so you have to talk about it. Directly to your questions. I will use the occasion to remind you of the reasons why this program came about. Over 1 million Bulgarian households live in multi-family residential buildings. According to the data we have, their number in Bulgaria is close to 72 thousand. This affects a huge part of the Bulgarian population. Moreover, in addition to what you said about the severe inefficiency of residential buildings, we have other problems. Especially when we are talking about panel buildings, it is related to the need to conduct a constructive investigation to be convinced that they are all in good constructive condition. Learned from the experience we have in recent years, both from the pilot model that has been implemented and the experience that we have gained from the Operational Programme "Regional Development" as you rightly pointed out, we have decided to mobilise additional resources at the expense of the national budget, which amounts to 1 billion. BGN, adding to it the remainder of the said 50 million under Operational Programme "Regional Development" as the resource of 300 million. lv. under the future Operational Programme "Regions in Growth". The total available resource for the next, say, two years is not less than 1 billion. 250 million. lv. There are a number of technical details that, as long as I have time, I would like to introduce you, but the most important thing at the moment is what rate the process will be running. As you already know, there has been a change in the model, as it should have happened from the beginning: the main partner and the main responsible institution are the local authorities, those who have direct and continuous contact with the citizens. It is thanks to cooperation with local authorities that we rely on the process to run much faster, since we have a registered association of owners, that we have a procedure where, after making a decision to repair the relevant entrance or block, they will address the local authority directly to the municipality concerned, which is responsible for all other procedures, including the conduct of procedures under the Public Procurement Act. All preliminary steps, speaking of technical, constructive investigation, preparation of projects is also a commitment of local authorities. Because of the nature of the problems described, there is no time to waste. Some of the processes have already started. We count on the complete process of coordination with the Bulgarian municipalities in the National Association of Municipalities format to be completed by the end of January. From the point of view of a real start of the investment process, if we assume that given the 100% funding intensity under the scheme, the interest will be much greater, I am counting on it to be a fact in the second half of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Here's a line, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u49	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. My line to you is in the direction of my personal impressions. As a Member of the National Assembly during my reception, I have heard the desire of many people to join this program. There are ways to be informed through the official website of the Ministry of Regional Development, brochures that have been issued to reach a larger circle of people. However, what bothered me at my last reception was in the city. Samokov Municipality, which is not financially threatened or has its misfortunes. On the contrary, it is a well-developed community. There the question was: will municipalities be the ones to pay for this audit - constructive, energy; construction and installation activities, building control, issuing passportization of the designated buildings? And although it has been repeated repeatedly that this will be 100% free funding, I ask you once again through this highest hall in our country and from this place to reassure municipalities and people that whoever talks to them about money is not. The National Programme provides 100% free funding. And one more thing. During the election campaign, we talked that this is one way to help small businesses to participate much and smaller companies. If you can join us with such a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u50	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u51	As you rightly pointed out, responsible for all types of payments, as well as a party to the contracts, as well as for the preliminary activities, the investigation, design and construction will be the local authorities, i.e. municipalities. But none of these costs will remain at the expense of the municipal budget. The system provides that on the basis of monthly requests all costs incurred will be covered, as the scheme provides for an advance payment to the municipalities, which will not burden the municipal budgets additionally. With regard to the fact that the funding is 100%, i.e. that there is no co-financing, I confirm it once again, and from the point of view of the national programme (there the costs are covered by 100%), and from the point of view of this part, which will go under the Operational Programme "Regioni" (the Member State will cover the necessary co-financing of 25%). With regard to the end-user, I am talking about a full grant, i.e. 100% financing of all the measures envisaged. I take the opportunity to point out that taking this measure did not go without argument. Many experts argued that in order to form a sense of ownership, participation in the process, there should be some kind of co-financing argument that I accept. However, it is also appropriate to recall, following a similar method, what has happened in recent years to get to the situation where we have more money than the interests of co-owners. Therefore, a decision was taken on 100% funding. I specify that as the first phase of the program this will be for a limited period of time, say 2 years. I do not hide that this is intended to provoke greater interest on the part of all those who manage to participate in this period have the chance to receive 100% funding of all measures. I point out that we are not only talking about energy efficiency measures, although they are an emphasis. There is no way to take measures related to facade insulation and so on before a constructive survey of the building is carried out and, if necessary, strengthening. Additionally, we're not just talking about isolation. We're also talking about renovating the roof. There is a detailed list of eligible and inadmissible activities in the brochure that is being distributed. From the point of view of further mobilization of co-owners, it is my personal idea that if they make a commitment, for example, to repair the elevator system or another part of the installation that is not covered by the programme, this should be considered an advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Svilenski will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Prime Minister, honourable gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The first question on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria will address to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov. Mr. Borisov, you and the government you run have the unique ability to activate in the coldest months, usually January and February, the civil discontent of protests against you and the government of Bulgaria. [[Voices from GERB: "Eeeee."]] That was the problem with ski slopes, GMOs, shale gas, electricity prices. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] But you have shown that you can listen to people's voices and take the right position by giving back. The protests that BSP left Bulgaria not only supports but also calls for participation in them all Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u54	Last year, people took you out of power!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u55	... are protests caused by the insane decision to stop 38 trains, the limitation of another 10 from 12 January 2015 and the expected suspension of 90 more trains from 1 February 2015, leading to the destruction of BDZ and affecting the lives of thousands of citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u56	Where are the 30 cars?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u57	...withdrawal of social rights for people with disabilities, pensioners, students and others. You don't want, Mr. Borisov, to stay in history as prime minister, bury the state railway?! [[Speaking from GERB: "Eeeee! "]] We call for you to look at the problem of the BDZ in integrity of both passenger and rail transport, because they are inextricably linked. Dear Mr. Borisov, are you and your government ready to order the cancellation of the suspension order and to propose such measures for the development of the state railway, the price for which will not always pay the weakest economic and financial Bulgarian citizens and those in a difficult social situation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u58	Who paid for the cars of Mutafchiev?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u59	The answer is given by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking this opportunity to convey my condolences to Mr. Mikov for his father's death. Personally, it's a tragedy. As for the railway, in a constructive spirit, I would like to put all its problems on the table because I am convinced, and you know perfectly well that year to year in this sector because of the lack of reforms, due to the lack of good governance, a million have accumulated after a million huge debts to this day. I could easily return you to 2006. I heard Mr. Mutafchiev say you bought trains this morning. More specifically, you took trains, and you didn't pay for them. We're trying to pay them now. In fact, we have 10 million more in the budget this year, but we want 40 million each to pay over 300 million, which is for these cars, Simons, which show them on TV. In fact, they're already a few million miles away, and we haven't paid them as a country. Somewhere we have to get that money to pay for it. We're doing these experiments. There are places where very few people on five, six, ten or fifteen take advantage of 100-ton trains that run on the lines. All locomotives of the series EMB 32s must be stopped, there is such a prescription. You know perfectly well how much a new locomotive costs and that you need to be placed in the budget to buy it. Reminding me of winter, I would remind you of summer. We gain nothing from this neither BSP nor GERB. As a result, there were all the anomalies in the state and you know it well. Today, I gave the Council of Ministers both the financial and the transport minister a second look at the schemes, we will see the trade unions, the branch organizations. There is no place I can allow, and I can assure you that people will be left without transport. If somewhere you have to reduce the number of trains or expand their schedule.. to be less often I mean, it will be done. Otherwise, all taxpayers pay ten people to ride the same train. This could make it a leading transport or other kind of transport. I heard it was on the table this morning. Let us on topics that you are well aware of that you have not managed that because of the need for huge funding, huge billion and a half are needed for transport, for BDZ, for railways, to say that here the problems are cleared. You know perfectly well there's no place to take the money. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With all due respect to you, I propose that a dialogue with municipalities be held in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. That's what I ordered. The easiest is also the most popular, and we can do it right away to resend the 40 million that were set to pay the cars. We're not paying them, we're transferring them to 2006. If you paid for it, it wouldn't be a problem. And that's my final option, if you keep reminding me that we make our own protests. Don't do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u61	A line? Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! In the search for a better solution to this crisis issue and my duplicate will be well-intentioned. I am deeply convinced that it is much more important to properly define one question than to give any answer. The question that the government of the country should ask itself before any reform, including the reform of the BDZ, is can a reform be made in the BDZ which will benefit people, including, of course, society, without being at the expense of a certain group of people, usually the poorest and the least developed regions? That is the question that needs to be asked before acting. This issue excludes both current and previous fragmented, non-systemic, voluntaristic and easy solutions such as closing passenger lines, preparing for sale the profitable elements of the system, privatizing, launching on the 9th adverts which lines will be closed on the 12th, without alternative solutions, without people's attitude how to get to hospital, to work, to school. When a reform is preceded by such a question, by a correct answer, this can be called a real, necessary reform. In your response, I find the attitude to review this decision, to exclude easy solutions, to approach systematically, to optimize the system and to give solutions to people who simply cannot pay the cost of reforms anymore. This approach would be state-owned, would be acceptable and would be good. That's my line on the question you asked and the answer you gave.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u63	Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to take a look at the back? No. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, with my question I would like to draw the attention of the Prime Minister in recent years there has been a massive and frequent removal of residential buildings on the territory of the country by mayors and municipal authorities. This is happening in Stara Zagora, Burgas, Yambol and some other cities. Much of the removal of housing buildings is precisely in the neighborhoods with mixed populations, and I would like to stress that in many cases this is contrary to the European rules, criteria and norms, and contrary to the Charter of Human Rights, all these norms and charters, which we have adopted since the beginning of the democratic process in our country. Much of the people who have been removed from their residential buildings remain without address registrations, which they had previously and were given to them by the municipality, the municipal administration. The serious problem, in my opinion, is precisely to date, especially in the face of the threat faced by the entire European Union and our country as a member of the European Union, by terrorist attacks and threats, precisely that many of these people left without an address registration are wandering somewhere in the country without ID cards, without an address registration and cannot be found by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If any of these people commit a crime, how can they be found by the Ministry of Interior? Plus, without an address registration, these people are becoming completely illegal in social life. They can't even go to a doctor to perform a normal examination, they can't sign up their children for school or kindergartens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u65	Time, Mr. Iliev!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u66	This creates a prerequisite for thousands of difficulties. Prime Minister, we believe that there should be a serious state policy that, in short time, we can find a way and a legal way in which all these victims should be given address registrations. From the DPS Parliamentary Group a few weeks ago, we submitted three laws proposing a solution to this problem. [[Heckling]] Unfortunately, they were rejected by colleagues from GERB's group mainly. Please, when a bill is introduced, let's look at it logically. Not to look at them on a party basis, but to look at them in logic and in the interest of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u67	If you want two questions to count what we're listening to right now? A minute and a half you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u68	Yes, my general question is: [[Elevator bell dings]] What does he think... Okay, second question: does Mr. Prime Minister think that some state policy should be made and built to work on this serious problem? How much transparency can be given for solving this serious problem, for all parliamentary groups to participate in this, because it is the National Assembly and all of us, as elected people, who are here to solve the problems of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u69	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. The problem is really very serious, so I let you develop your thesis. Here you are, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Iliev! Indeed, the problem is very big because by statistics we have somewhere in the order of 200,000 illegal dwellings in Bulgaria. In this sense, it would mean that they should have neither electricity nor water nor... be treated as such and be removed under the law. However, thank you for the question, because this is indeed a policy on which the Social Ministry can also answer what is being done, but in any case it is not enough. When the municipal councils and fortunately there are of all political parties in Bulgaria, they make such a decision, the mayors implement them. It was like this in Stara Zagora, in Burgas, in Sofia. At least I remember these at first reading, meaning the law is respected. Indeed, the problem is serious, like many others in Bulgaria. It should be high time they were placed in their real weight on the table and without politicizing to seek a solution. Otherwise, everything you say is true. The law is respected, the buildings are removed, then there is no alternative for these people but to do something else illegal. Indeed, we need to think about this subject, as we think about energy efficiency, and I think it is right. You need to think about this in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. - What's the line? You don't have a line. Thank you. For the next question from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, you have no questions. Mr. Atanasov, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! My question relates to the following: what has our government done specifically since it was in power to uncover the stolen money from KTB and reveal the path and where are they based at the moment? We have made a truly humane act as a parliament, we have paid the depositors up to a certain amount of 3 billion. 600 million. BGN, to the people who had brought their money to KTB. But from now on, every Bulgarian citizen, including all of us, colleagues, including you, Mr. Prime Minister, will spend years paying for this theft of a handful of crooks. Therefore, my specific question is: what is the government doing specifically to return the money to the Bulgarian people stolen by a handful of villains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Atanasov! Indeed, what you have read is that a huge amount of more than 3 billion is not 600, but 300 million is already passing. BGN were paid to the depositors, who waited for months to be given the money from CCB. Indeed, it is very important and I really hope that Parliament will take a decision in the coming days on the election of a BNB governor. After all, the most important sector, the most important portfolio in BNB is the banking supervision for which Mr. Gunev was responsible. You know he hasn't been at work in a month. The supervision of banks in Bulgaria does not have a portfolio manager. I truly hope that Parliament will urgently adopt this decision in the coming days so that such an act will no longer be allowed. You know that we have banned the sessions and now two meetings are being held with both prosecutors and with the Ministry of Interior and the DANS on the subject of revealing all funds exported abroad, acquired property and all this in the end the state can take it back so that the damage can be small. I hope that at least a billion somewhere we can recover our country after that. I really hope in this regard, too, that I rely very much on the prosecution as the master of these proceedings and those cases that are being conducted at the moment. But, I repeat, it is extremely important for us to elect a head of banking supervision, as we currently do not know, we hope, but... what is the condition of other banks. We are making huge efforts and I think that very rhythmically, with a very good organization, for which I also thank the Bulgarian banks that participated in the payments, to the Ministry of Interior, which provided the necessary security and you see that once it is not written about the process, so much money has been paid without any conflict or problem, I think a good organization has been created. But it is important that we do not allow such a thing anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u75	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u76	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! Basically, I am pleased with the answer and commitment to this so serious question. Rather, my question is supplementary because on 31 October as Parliament, if you remember, colleagues, we have decided that there are such licensed companies, not only Swiss, but also others who specialize in revealing the flow of stolen money, where they are. I hope, Prime Minister, that such a company will be hired and returned, as you said, at least some of the Bulgarian taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I thank Parliament for the decisions taken, because this has enabled us to reassure people. I hope not only the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which will continue investigations and be achieved, because in the field of what I am familiar with, there is currently very active work with neighbouring countries, with countries of the European Union, at the level of prosecutors, active action is taking place, at least that I can say. If he wants, the Attorney General can explain more on this subject, but at least what I've been informed... I hope this really gets to the end money where the money can be returned to the state. In this regard, I was a little puzzled by the fact that a few months had been postponed. I really hope that the Bulgarian court will understand how important this is for society, how many billions have paid back and more quickly to rule, because delaying by a month or two takes us away from the crime committed. So I most kindly ask, purely administrative, because you are asking this question today to me, let me just be the transferor to the justice system, just as quickly as possible, and now decide as he sees fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u79	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u80	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kalfin. Mr. Kalfin, today the Labour and Social Policy Committee is entering into a bill that we have tabled with our colleagues to amend the Family Aid Act for children. With it we aimed to drop the income test and all Bulgarian children to have the same rights before the law. In your opinion, you are against the measures proposed as one of your motives is that the main responsibility for raising children in Bulgaria belongs to the parents and family. I have mentioned several times from this tribune, given that we are the fastest disappearing nation in Europe, on several occasions I have offered relief for families with children....................... have not been accepted, and each time almost you answer me, or answer to the media that there are other ways, there are other ways, there are other principles. At the end of your opinion, you also say that there will be a system of measures. I ask you, as Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic Policy, to share with the MPs what are the measures the Council of Ministers will take during this term in terms of demographic policy I'd love to know that thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u82	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kenov, I don't know if the place of this issue is in blitz control, but once you expand it, as it is on a specific bill. By the way, this afternoon, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we will be in the Commission and we will be able to answer all your questions regarding this activity. What you are putting as a question is related to the way parenting is supported in Bulgaria. The fact is that there are currently nine types of payments for parents, and it is a fact that what we are really stimulating is responsible parenting. I have always defended and will continue to defend the thesis that social policy is for people who do not have opportunities that have lower incomes that are good citizens of the country, good parents in this case, but do not have the capacity to fully raise their children. Currently, 860,000 children receive children's supplements somewhere from about a million and a hundred thousand, which are under 18 years old. So further increase actually for this group of parents who have high incomes will hardly lead to higher demographic growth, as you suggest in your question. As far as the overall demographic policy is concerned, this is a topic on which I am ready, and perhaps it is worth a special parliamentary debate, because it is extremely important and is not only related to parental aid. As you well know, demographic policy is about living standards. I am also ready in the Commission "Dr. Ademov" is here if you invite us and in plenary to have a debate. I sincerely encourage you to actually challenge him for the overall demographic policy in Bulgaria, because it has many elements and does not run out of child support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kenov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. However, it is clear that it is these 300 000 Bulgarian children who do not receive children's supplements that their parents are paying taxes. These taxes go to the state budget and this is the state budget that pays children's supplements. Or people who don't import taxes get children's supplements, and people who import taxes don't get their children. It's an injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kenov, this is the principle of state budget allocation. That's right, those who receive higher incomes help with their taxes to those who receive lower incomes, not only in children's supplements. If we decide not to do this thing, then the children's supplements will disappear at all, because then there's no one to import taxes, right? I neglected to say that, as of this year, although a small first step, which will perhaps deepen and I hope that this will happen, working parents in your decision, also have a tax discount when watching children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u87	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The political party parliamentary group "Attack" "The People's Representative Ilian Todorov," come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u88	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Deputy Ministers! From the TV screen of Alpha, which you, Mr. Borisov, so eagerly want to close [[(a line from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, loud noise and speech, shouting:]] We showed to all Bulgarian citizens a spectator video, which clearly shows how on the highway "Hemus" our cars are transporting SUVs with the Ukrainian flag and transport them from Bulgaria to Ukraine. The video was taken on January 9, 2015 in the region of Lovech and Yablanitsa. This video is clear proof that Bulgaria participates in the arms supply of the fascist junta in Ukraine [[crowd cheering and chirping]] , proof that Bulgaria is involved in the CIA game. Our country is involved in a war, and this will inevitably lead to action taken. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Bulgaria is now not only a plazdarm, but also a supplier of arms to Ukrainian fascists, of course, for jihadists in Iraq and Syria. [[Loud noise and lines.]] She's on the side of...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u89	Mr. Todorov, please limit yourself to qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u90	...in Washington's battle with Russia. In this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, my question to you is: is the supply of arms to the Ukrainian fascist junta in Ukraine a government policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Prime Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u92	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable Members of the House of Ataka. With all due respect, in the worst conflicts I've ever had with anyone, I haven't even allowed myself to give myself some nuance to shut down television, media or anything like that. There's no one else in this room that everyone's been practicing this way over the years. So please don't give me anything I don't even know. Everywhere there are posters of television..Alfa....I guess they have their own audience interest....and there is because it is democracy. It is democracy that everyone has the right to be informed and to see what they want. There were years in which you remember that there was one National Television, one Radio, and all night they went to Free Europe to hear what they were saying. We're a long way from this time. Now, about freedom of speech in Bulgaria, if you want to say something, you have a place to always say it. I assure you, and I will see where this came from, that I will shut down the television station, but I assure you, there is no such thing. As for what you broadcast as a report, I asked the military mister to give me some information. On the highway of Hemus was driving a car carrying military vehicles to Ukraine through Bulgaria. It turns out that this is the case and the vehicles of the Armed Forces of Ukraine from the composition of the KFOR s and trailers, have passed through Bulgaria on 6 7 December 2014 and have left the Ruse checkpoint. KFOR is a NATO peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. It was established by UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 1999. The International Community, including Bulgaria, is focusing their efforts to maintain peace and stability in the region. The inspection found that they were transporting only transport vehicles. The cars filmed in a video are not a type of weapons system or military goods. I'm saving myself all the other qualifications. I hope I was convincing. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u93	The line, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u94	Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister, I will have to disappoint you, but the video clearly shows that there is no sign of KFOR on the vehicles. You can claim this, but usually on all cars, all the cars that are on KFOR have distinguishing marks. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You wouldn't be able to fool us like that. With regard to our Western Atlantic adventures, it's only in Afghanistan that we're worth 500 million. lv. For the last few years. It just came up about the BDZ that there wasn't any money. Yes, of course, you want to privatize it from the German state railway company, that is clear, but instead of spending 62 million this year on our Western adventures in Afghanistan, separate that 40 million for BDZ so you don't go bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u95	Do you want a hole, Mr. Borisov? No. It's the ABB Parliamentary Group's turn. Here's a first question, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u96	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! Dear Prime Minister, at your meeting with European Commission Vice-President Maros Šefčovic on 12 January in Brussels [[noise and raging in GERB]] You presented the idea of turning Bulgaria into a common distribution centre of gas of the Member States of the European Union in the region. Vice-President Šefčovič or Sefčovič, I do not know how it is pronounced, voiced its strong support for the creation of gas hubs, which can play an important role in the development of regional gas markets. You have declared that Bulgaria has huge amounts of gas in its three gas deposits in the Black Sea and this hub can enter 170 200 million. Cube. And that we would be able to sell gas in the coming years when we would develop them. The facility can also accept liquefied gas from tankers and possible shale gas after years if safe technology is detected for its extraction. You, Prime Minister, stressed that you do not intend to raise the moratorium on shale gas research in our country. Dear Prime Minister, from a message from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the invitation of Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, US Secretary of State John Carey will make an official visit to Bulgaria on January 15th. During the talks between the two foreign ministers, a review of bilateral relations and up-to-date issues will be carried out on the international agenda with a focus on leading topics such as regional security and bilateral cooperation in defence; trade and economic relations and investment; energy issues. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u97	Let's hear the question, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u98	It is also possible to resume the topic of shale gas exploration. Dear Prime Minister, my question to you is: what will be the position of the Bulgarian government and yours personally, if there is pressure during the visit of the Secretary of State to lift the moratorium on shale gas research in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u99	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The meeting was not only with Commissioner Šefčovič, but also with the President of the European Energy Union Kaniteta "two EU commissioners." Indeed, the topics that we have to solve as a package in the field of energy are many. You all know the condition, I'm not going back to that subject, it's pointless. He said several things on behalf of the European Commission. Firstly, there is no country through which a gas pipeline can pass without complying with the Third Energy Package. Clear and precise! Something that's been helpful has been missed so far. Sjec "Whether it is Greece, Macedonia or Serbia as a candidate for the European Union, this requirement of the European Commission applies to all countries. Secondly, it would be much better for the Commission itself to go through Bulgaria and to stop a large hub to operate by companies of the European Commission, because the Commission itself cannot operate, yet such structures will be created, it is important that the principle where Bulgarian gas from the European Union can be collected in this hub from the Bulgarian gas from the European Commission is collected from the European Commission. We agreed on 99%, because until I see the money I never say 100%, the interconnector link with Greece 100% to finance it to us the European Commission is somewhere around 200 million, is not little money. Then we will have the opportunity, through the reverse, if they deliver liquefied cheap gas to Greece, we can take it from there. In a word, we have great opportunities to diversify our supplies. Separately, if the Azeri gas is released one day to pass through Turkey, it can also come here. The subject of hub, which was an idea, is now on the table of the European Commission and will be actively working. Both commissioners were at the meeting for a reason. Commissioner Šefčovič is in Moscow today to speak, as you know that we have granted the rights to negotiate with Moscow on this subject to the European Commission, and after the meeting there I will have more information if you are interested to know what they have said from the opposite country. As far as shale gas is concerned, you rightly pointed out that I have made use of technologies that in no way threaten the environment. You see the speed of technology and technology in the world. After 5-10-15 years, I don't want to imagine with these expensive energy resources how far it can go. So my answer is definitely no, to drop the shale gas moratorium. In the long term, if they provide technology that does not endanger us, because at the moment everyone is saying that cracking threatens the environment. That is why we in the previous government put a moratorium on them to be calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u101	Fracking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u102	Fracking, I apologize. That's why we stopped him. So in no way will this happen until we are convinced as a society that there is a new such technology. That's more than I can tell you. I think we've properly defended our interests. At the meetings today with the UK Foreign Minister we will put the topics again and tomorrow with Secretary of State John Carey too. A pressure on me on such a subject cannot turn out to be because we have made it very clear. And to say, "never" doesn't make sense, given that it works so actively because it's proven cheap gas and if they come up with a technology that doesn't create a problem, why not take advantage? That's what I said. I think you wouldn't mind either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u103	The line, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u104	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Prime Minister! I am really satisfied with your response, with the firm and consistent policy for a moratorium on shale gas. But as a person with more than 40 years of experience in the energy sector, I take the liberty of expressing my own opinion that in one such visit, there is always a breaking of the firm position not only for shale gas. I would also like to express my opinion not to accept the pressure that will probably be made for the VI block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" until the financial parameters of the project are seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u105	A hole, Prime Minister? You won't use it, I understand. On behalf of the Members of the National Assembly, who are not members of a parliamentary group, Mr. Velizar Enchev has the floor for questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u106	Mrs. Tsacheva, colleagues, Prime Minister! At the end of last year, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev made a scandalous statement, which is a real shame for the parliament, which elected him as Minister, and for the Bulgarian intelligence, to which he believes it belongs. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Tanev said that Frederic Jolio-Kuri is unnecessary to say who he is, is a complete zero in science that the great Russian scientist Lomonosov is also zero in science and represents nothing and the great Bulgarian scientist Professor. Asen Zlatarov should be thrown out of Bulgarian science because he had Russian views. He also allowed himself to call on the students, and in an open lecture, I quote, Mr. Prime Minister: to hold firm with Magyars, Jews and Armenians, while these three groups softened. My question to you is very brief and it says: do you support or condemn this statement? And second question: when will you request the resignation of Minister Tanev? I believe that your lack of reaction is solidarity with this scandalous statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u107	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I'm not going to hide that you've made it very difficult for me. Because it's very difficult for me to get into the role of following the minds of professors, intellectuals in this case, and the way they read history. I would add that Napoleon had also made one statement. I met with the Minister of Education and asked him just to be more careful in his speech. Indeed, I can't say that I support him now either, because I don't know how to say that I support him or at the same time... Besides, time is like this before we even see his potential as a minister, to ask him for his resignation. I spoke to him, I hope he understood that with such a statement he could ignite many circles, not only among intellectuals or people in education, but also with everyone else. I hope he understands. I repeat, I cannot hide that it is difficult for me to give a firm answer. There are postulates, there are truths, there is a story that we have believed in ourselves. It's hard for me to deny Curie or Lomonosov myself. My entire education has passed in the belief that they are great. You know, better yet, I have a request for you to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It's hard for me to get into his skin and tell you what he meant and be his lawyer. I really talked to him and asked him not to put me in this situation because there are things I can answer about, and there are others that, even though he is a minister in the cabinet, he is an individual and could protect what he said if you ask him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u109	He apologized.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u110	A line, Mr. Enchev? You won't use it. Moving on to the second round of questions. The group of GERB is on the move. Mr. Dobrev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u111	Honourable President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Half of my question actually asked Mr. Tsochev, so I'll focus on the second half. It again concerns your visit to Brussels and your meeting with Energy Commissioner Maros Šefcovic. This meeting is really very important, which is why it is also our question to you, so I am glad that you talked about the talk about the gas hub near Varna, about the meeting with Commissioner Sefčovic in Moscow and the study of the topic and the possibility to implement a project instead of the South Stream Project. It is also important to hear from colleagues on the left, if they ever have to negotiate with the European Commission again accidentally, to hear how this is done and how results are achieved. The second part of my question relates to the task force, for which it has also become a question at this meeting. As far as we have been informed by the media, in the conversation with the Commissioner, you have reached an agreement in February to set up or meet a working group on the topic of......................................................................................... If you could tell us more about this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u112	Prime Minister Borisov for the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The previous government had two questions from GERB and all others previously dictated. Now this blitz control is different from parliamentary questions. But I want here especially to Mr. Dobrev to say in the tone of tolerance and what I have always said that we should unite efforts when we can. I particularly want to say that former Prime Minister Stanishev, as Commissioner Sefčovic is a socialist, had spoken about this topic. Mr. Kalfin has also been very helpful. Martin Schulz at our meeting with him also made a commitment to help with the support they have. Indeed, I believe that you all enjoy it when the commissioners, the leadership of the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Council with attention, and you see, with diligence, take over Bulgaria's problems. This is due indeed and to thank all those who could in some way cooperate and help, and have not hindered what is called, and this is something very important. In February, the summit will be here in Bulgaria, we will organise it so that we can really put the topic of the Common Energy Union. They are ideas that only flow in the air, yet need to be materialized, the recovery of.Nabucco, ECT, because this was an extremely strategic project.. the first priority of the European Commission was so thrown into the trash can. I think the moment now with the gas hub, somewhere around Varna, and the recovery of "Nabucco" is absolutely in the priorities of the European Commission. Moreover, Juncker's plan could run exactly similar projects. It's building, it's growth, it's diversification. This is a common energy union, on the basis of this is the reduction of gas prices. So I think that with a joint effort and a common position in Bulgaria we can achieve better results.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Would you like to use a line, Mr. Dobrev? No. We move on to the next question, which is from the group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Ermenkov. With a high probability the subject of the question will be close?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u115	You got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u116	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u117	That's within the joke. Dear Madam President, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my colleagues, who have just touched on this subject because they have saved me some of the reasons I wanted to introduce you to. So I'm going to cut to the chase. We are witnessing unparalleled activity by the President of the Council of Ministers regarding the problems arising from Russia's decision to freeze the South Stream project. Not just him, but two deputy prime ministers did that. It is almost daily that we witness publications about meetings, statements and interviews related to this. Here's a little chronology. 4 December 2014: Boiko Borisov received support from Juncker for South Stream and the EU funds. 10 December: Borisov proposes the European Union to finance a gas hub at the entrance of South Stream. Then on December 15th: the Bulgarian Prime Minister and German Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed at a meeting in Berlin the South Stream project and the possibility of Bulgaria becoming a gas distributor. 18 December: Borisov is waiting for instructions from Brussels for South Stream. 20 December: "We will issue the permits under the South Stream. January 12, 2015: Borisov met with European Commission Deputy Chief Sefcovic for South Stream. And from today: an interview on Wednesday, we have an agreement to hear what will happen, as on the South Stream we are waiting for something from Moscow to come as news. At the same time, I suppose the Prime Minister is familiar with the fact that building a distribution facility at the very least suggests that there is something that will be distributed. In this case, I am referring to the fact that building a gas hub, because this uses the Prime Minister, without knowing where, when and how you will have distribution gas, is slightly eccentric! I am convinced that the prime minister is not surprised by the fact that the responsibility of the Bulgarian government is to provide reliable energy supplies, including gas. If there are any doubts, I would remind him that on 3 December 2014 the spokeswoman of the Committee on Energy and Climate Affairs Anna Itkonen said that the European Commission is not a party to the South Stream project. I will remind him of what he said on 12 January and Mr. Šefčovič: that the Bulgarian government and Bulgarian citizens are defining for the Bulgarian energy policy. In this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you if the Bulgarian government intends to hold meetings not only with representatives of the European Commission in terms of obtaining instructions, as written here Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u118	Prime Minister Borisov for the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My fellow Member, I am trying, but you see, I obviously fail to seek synergies, not confrontation. You're asking me a question whose answer you know perfectly well. Bulgaria empowers the European Commission on the topic of South Stream to be represented by Commissioner Šefčovic. Once we have given such a letter, such a power of attorney, we as what to talk to the Russian side?! Like what?! [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] You have said: "On this topic we will be represented by Brussels. That is why we are going to Brussels, we are telling the Commissioner what we want to get and he is going because you, by power of attorney, have granted him these rights. I will hear myself, see myself and meet you and believe me, we have wonderful communication with the leaders in Russia at the moment when we have something to tell them what to offer them. You say you made the first weld or the first weld. But here I read to you that your Prime Minister Oresharski has ordered all activities to be stopped without having to be stopped. We've just recovered them. If you notice, since then the Russian side has not spoken on the subject. There's not a single line written, there's nothing written about it. So the commissioner goes to ask them if they're going to write, are we going to stop, or are they not going to write? Because we have given power to them to represent us, signed by Dragomir Stoynev. I wanted to run away from this story and say that we're exhibiting maximum activity, but it's not super, it's just normal work. If it had not been for the isolation at that time and this had not been done 6, 7 months ago, and Brussels had been convinced that these two preliminary activities should be carried out, respectively, to negotiate at such a level, we would not be in this situation. With all due respect to you, I thanked everyone for their efforts, because I repeat: and the socialists who represent us there also help this happen. But I don't see the point in going back to history. The fact is that, to date, efforts are being made, if possible, to make a hub in which to distribute it. That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u120	The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u121	It's kind of a bloody story. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Dear Prime Minister, with all due respect to you, I cannot be satisfied with the answer, because you have reiterated that the European Commission will negotiate with Russia. The European Commission can negotiate with Russia on the status of the pipeline along the territory of the European Union. I asked you a very simple and specific question: does the Bulgarian government intend to build a hub...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u122	But you've made your decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u123	Mr. Ivanov, when you become Prime Minister, I will ask you questions as well. I'm not asking you now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u124	Now there will be a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u125	Please do not engage in a personal dialogue with MPs in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u126	My question is: does the Bulgarian government intend to hold talks with countries that would be potential gas suppliers? Does the Bulgarian government have any idea of the rates at which natural gas research is developing in the fields mentioned by you? In addition, did it take into account the decision of.. Total and consortium that they would postpone their research in the Black Sea by one year? In general, all the details that are connected to make it clear whether what will be distributed will be there?! That was my simple question. There was no nagging, there was no confrontation in it. I believe that whether we will build a hub and whether this is an issue that we will discuss with the European Union, whether there will be gas for the European Union, which the European Union will spend on the South Stream and we will be part of it and it has the power to lead this thing, is connected, but does not exclude the Bulgarian government's obligation to take an initiative to deliver enough gas to Bulgaria because the interconnectors you are talking about are only for emergency needs, for saving the situation. They can't solve things. Once again, if you take a line, do you intend to have conversations with countries that will deliver gas, or will we only talk about hub? If this stays, it's just PR action, it's nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u127	Hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with one word we would gladly negotiate and negotiate, and you know that Minister Petkova is having talks with Minister Novak on these topics just ten days ago. And I repeat, I have repeatedly said from this tribune that we are not looking for confrontation. On the contrary, we are looking for a solution. Because everyone would benefit from one to sell gas, the other to transport it. We are talking about hub, not Bulgarian, but the European Commission, funded by European programmes or Juncker plan. This does not preclude our negotiations or our relations on all other topics from being conducted with countries that could also bring compressed gas. Therefore, this relationship, especially with Greece, is extremely important. I repeat, once the Azeri gas is released to pass on TANAP, it is also extremely important to do so. In a word, we are making great efforts to put this project into financial and economic conditions that have been approved by the European Commission and as part of the European Union, we do not enter into a colony with a third energy package. These efforts we make and meet understanding. So in a word, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u129	We are moving on to a question from the Reformation Block Group. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms has asked their two questions. Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u130	Madam President, Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is again to the Prime Minister and it is not a coincidence that the issue is the gas hub or the gas centre and the South Stream. Prime Minister, it is very important to get a clear answer to the question what is Russia's position in terms of this gas hub is there any support, is there an agreement, do they agree, as a project, to move on to something different, which is the creation of such a gas hub? Even if there is no official position of Russia, it is important to know whether there is an informal interest in such a development. In a nutshell: the South Stream (South Stream) failed as a project for one main reason (Russia) did not give up for a moment to be a total Russian monopoly. He never even asked for a derogation or an exception from the European Commission, as was done with regard to other projects. So, if we are going to do this gas hub, the issue needs to be discussed together with two very important and related issues, namely to have access to third parties from the very beginning, which you have now stressed, but this must be guaranteed from the first day. And from the first day it should be clear who pays the bill, who will finance what, what will be our participation. It is best for Bulgaria not to have, if you want, a financial contribution in all of this, or to have minimal participation to ensure our interest and to be sure that then Bulgarian gas will be able to be transported, and we will be able to buy from any sources. However, if we separate this issue, as the Oresharski cabinet did, from the other issues, we will make the same mistake that has actually led to the suspension of the South Stream. So, Prime Minister, is it important that we know Russia is adopting this approach that we have learned that the European Commission has already supported in some form? And if I support it, are they finally willing to give up their monopoly thesis, which they have tried so long to impose on the European Commission, first and then on Bulgaria, which was clear that it is contrary to all the rules, to all the requirements of the Third Liberalisation Package and simply cannot happen? I mean, if that's the kind of change she made in the position, that's...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u131	Your question, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u132	The question is clear: is Russia ready to step down from its request for a total monopoly?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u133	You ask a third party to respond on behalf of Russia. Your question is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u134	In the talks, Prime Minister, which you and your ministers have had with representatives of Russia, is there any readiness for a new position?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u135	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u136	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dimitrov! If I could answer that question with one sentence, it would mean that we have the most powerful intelligence service in the world. So what exactly do they think about it? I can't tell you at this point. Commissioner Šefčovič today, when he talks, will put it as a question and will answer us, so in the coming days I will be able to answer what they think about the issue. It is a fact that since the moment the suspension of South Stream was pronounced in Ankara, until now neither the European Commission nor Bulgaria has any written document that this has been stopped. I hope you also know that the idea of this gas hub came from the announcement that eventually on the border with Turkey and Greece would be built such a hub if along the route of I hope you know the Turkish side is buying the gas. She doesn't transport it, she buys it at the border and then she can raise the price or whatever she wants to do with that gas. In this case, if it is in the territory of Bulgaria, it is a much cleaner option, because not only third countries, all suppliers that can deliver gas, and at the same time all countries not only in the region, can use this gas, which is Serbia, Macedonia, Greece, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, Hungary. So I see, if it is profitable to make such a hub in Greece and pass through Turkey, where must, after buying the gas will raise the price, better come directly to the European Union in the case of our territory. Right, first it was an idea, we announced it. The day before yesterday we have already put it as an opportunity, respectively colleagues at the Ministry of Energy are now developing including what this hub would look like to have it in a picture, and if the Russian side finds interest in this decision, we will therefore sit down and negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u137	Will you use the line, Mr. Dimitrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u138	Just one clarification, Prime Minister. It is important that all issues are dealt with together, following the negative experience left by the Oresharski cabinet. The funding and access issues must be resolved from the first moment to move on. In other words, is Bulgaria expected to have a financial contribution in this hub, what, how, at what stage will be decided from the very beginning to be decided so that we do not repeat the same saga there is some project, a long time being worked on it, money being spent and it turns out that it cannot be realized due to many unresolved issues and due to a contradiction with European legislation? I mean, from the beginning, everything packagey has to go together.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u139	Will there be a hole, Mr. Borisov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, with one sentence with the European Commission. Our partners are currently working together to know from the first day, if done, how it will be done. Not to go ask questions after that or to scold us, but together to make it happen. Give me, God!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u141	Thank you. On behalf of the group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u142	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! At the insistence of the Patriot Front in the Program for Sustainable Management of the Coalition Government, the construction of the protective facility at our southern border with the Republic of Turkey, the complete completion and completion of this security facility was laid down. With regard to the expected increase in the number of refugees, as not irrelevant is the tragic incident that we have all witnessed recently, my question is: from the time you took over the government, is there any part of it built, is there any additional construction on the fence? If so, what is this distance that was built? If not, what are the reasons why it wasn't built? In this regard, if you are ready, I would also like an answer to the question: how much does the Republic of Bulgaria support additional contingents along our border with Turkey per month? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u143	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, it turns out that my request to you is that we forget it, to call it a defense facility, the more correct one is a defence facility, about seven times reduces refugee pressure on the border. To do so, we held several meetings, we sought all legal forms as quickly as possible to make this happen, including thinking even about separate legislation. Finally, we decided: about 82 kilometers should be made.. the three areas on which the border is. It's not cheap at all. It's in the order of 90 million. We are currently preparing the fastest way to conduct public procurement, competitions for the construction of this protective facility. I hope for the speed at which the district governors work, but we must go entirely under the Public Procurement Act. There will be appeals, and that will slow us down. If you, as a parliamentary group, submit a proposal by which we can shorten the deadlines, because we are convinced as a government that we need to build the facility, to shorten the deadlines, including if necessary by updating the budget for 90 million additional We're ready to respond immediately. It's absolutely necessary. Where there are such protective equipment, there is no such pressure. For this reason, and no fence is being made at the moment, because there is no legal possibility of this happening. If you give us an instrument faster to make, we'll be happy to take advantage of it. If not, the three district governments are currently holding a contest to build the facility. We have taken measures and prepared the construction of roads graveled all over the region. The money we're giving for extra security, I can't tell you exactly, I just didn't have time to ask. [[speaking indistinctly]] ..about 2 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u145	On the blitzcontrol specific numbers directly to be requested as an answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u146	About 2 million extra a month cost us border guards. We have already organized, even today the Council of Ministers has passed such a point with measures that Mrs. Kuneva can introduce you now as an importer in order to use the logistics and the army, with their drivers and trucks to assist the transportation of the police. Keep in mind that after March... I repeat, even if legislation could make it possible for Parliament to take it as a decision, to immediately start building the protective facility, it would be wonderful. That's what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u147	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. The line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u148	I am pleased with the answer and I am extremely dissatisfied with the facts that have been presented. Dear Mr. Borisov, first of all, it is more than clear that the 2 million will not be 2 million if there is a fence. Maybe it won't be seven times less, but it'll be a lot less. So at first it's about spending money. It is extremely important that a part should rather continue the construction of the protective facility in question. But I would like to remind you, Dear Mr. Borisov, Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Donchev that this was one of the seven points which were indispensable conditions for support on behalf of the Patriotic Front of the coalition government. The duties must be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u149	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Will there be a hole, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, we cannot circumvent public procurement procedures. I am ready today, Minister Vuchkov and the Minister of Defence to come, gather together the Security Committee in Parliament... a special law with three sentences that this protective facility can be at a price, a-what you are assigned, we will find a state enterprise that you say and I will execute it tomorrow. Now we've given the three areas to do it. Otherwise, tomorrow the opposition will ask us why we did the competitions. If you are willing to help us in this regard, we will cooperate immediately. This is going to be a short half-one side, especially for this facility. We'll go through two readings, and as they say next week, we can act. We are ready, I suppose, and the colleagues from BSP, DPS and Attack understand the problem. I hope there's no obstacle. This is really our border and it's costing us a lot of money. I'm ready if you tell me Mr. Tsvetanov is here, we'll get organized and we'll act. Otherwise, we have to protect it, it'll only be months until the competitions pass. We're most interested in getting up right away so that the pressure is smaller in the spring, that we have smaller sectors where we can keep physical security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u151	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Now comes a question from the BDZ group. You're gonna ask it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! First of all, thank you for fulfilling your duty under the Rules of Procedure to appear at this blitzcontrol, and everyone in full deserves congratulations. My question is this. The closure of trains, which has been in effect since the beginning of the week as of Monday, January 12th, is another blow to Vratsa, Vratsa and the people of Vratsa region from which I was elected as MP at the Forty-third National Assembly. Krivodol is mainly affected, Vratsa, Mezdra and Roman. This is a blow to the Northwest as a whole. On the other hand, Mr. Prime Minister, I listened carefully to you in an interview on a national television station in which you pointed out five significant initiatives for your government in the field of construction and infrastructure as a whole. These are the Sports Hall in Plovdiv, the Sports Hall in Varna, the completion of the construction of the highway of Hemus. Unfortunately, in this interview, and mainly the impact that the residents of Vrachan region and the Northwest have received is with the closure of these trains, I have heard nothing positive about the Northwest as a whole. My question to you is: do you personally and your government-led vision of some significant infrastructure site or possibly some serious investment to reduce unemployment, which is twice as high in this region as compared to the overall unemployment rate for the country? That's my question to you. If you are not prepared to report a particular object or project...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u153	There is no possibility in the blitzcontrol to ask questions that require preliminary preparation and specific numbers or data. So politically are the questions and such an answer should be expected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u154	That's right, Madam President. That's why I didn't ask for numbers, and that's why I want to say that if you're not ready to give that answer now, I'm ready at a certain time to have a meeting with you to hear what your vision for development in the Northwest as a whole is.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u155	For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Vice-President of Parliament! I didn't just say those things. To them I could add: the repair must be completed at Central Station, the two Lots of April month on the highway of Hemus and Lovech. I can further list what will be done within this mandate, because over 5 billion. lv. they'll be paid off. As far as the railway line is concerned, with all due respect to you, I think you'll understand, 2.5 billion. Euros cost to speed up the railroad to Vidin. All you have listed is one fifth of even this huge amount of 2.5 billion. Euros, adding what you said I said I said I needed to build up. For Bulgaria, the exception of the European Council was made with the clear awareness of all colleagues that they are doing so because of Bulgaria, the N+2 rule of N+3. It is not written so in the Council's decision, but it is given the right to the European Commission, as a last resort, to be able to do from N+2 N+3. This is about the Struma highway, because otherwise we have to return the money we have invested in it so far. In a word, the Maritsa highway, Struma highway, we are obliged to finish them this year. On the North Tangent, which you will see what gold will be for transportation in Sofia, three days if we were still late, we would have irrevocably lost over 200 million. I would very much like this to happen immediately, but at the same time, so many places along the railway lines are being done, you know, renovated again with European money for lifting speed and for greater security. I wish those things would happen. And they will, but we just have to finish these, get in there within that period. I guarantee you that if this Parliament works in 2015. By work I mean not to fall apart, not to go to early elections, more than 5 billion. lv. we will pay to municipalities and businesses in Bulgaria under European funds. Only 25 million will lose Bulgaria, which is a crumb. And we're not going to lose them, we're going to transfer them to the next period, so I'd love to have this lot on the Hemus Highway, and Shumen. Belokopitovo, passing the Hemus Highway through Northern Bulgaria, you'll see how good it's going to be. I guarantee you, and we are making a huge effort to do this. The tours of Vratsa and Montana should be ready by now. But I've made a commitment to being tolerant. I won't talk. Long ago these tours should have stood up and eased the movement of both Vratsa and Montana. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u157	A line? You won't be using, thank you. It's the attack group's turn. Mrs. Tasheva will ask the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u158	Mr. Prime Minister, my question is also related to the severe problem with the border and its security. At the end of last year, as a result of a serious incident, it was announced that border police officers guarding the green border outside the fence would be pulled off the border. First it was said that they would be pulled 15 kilometers deeper, that is, they would not guard the border, and then it was said that they would be pulled at all. On 6 January this year, your Interior Minister, Mr. Vuchkov, announced that he was withdrawing border police. My question is: who is currently guarding the border? The bureaucratic chaos that has arisen is due to the fact that between your ministers, the internal and military, and your deputy prime minister, there is a very serious confusion. You mentioned earlier that you were looking for legal norms. That won't be necessary. In the Law on Defense and Armed Forces Art. 3, p. Art. 1, art. Art. 6 and art. 57 is included in the Bulgarian Army, I read: to assist the security authorities in their fight against the proliferation of weapons, illegal trafficking, international terrorism and to participate in the security of strategic sites and sites and systems of critical infrastructure. The Bulgarian state border, which is also an external border of the European Union, is an integral part of the critical infrastructure of Bulgaria. You have 1,100 military officers trained to guard precisely such strategic sites. We have several times as many military personnel of the Bulgarian Army who are trained for the same, only in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u159	I'm asking your question, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u160	My question is: why did you leave Bulgaria's green border exposed outside these 30 kilometers, which mechanically are protected from the partition facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u161	Mr. Borisov, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues from the Ataka, we have not left the border exposed. It is reliable and I would say that it is probably the most reliable throughout the European Union. It's just that our gendarmes and policemen are working under extremely difficult conditions. That is why we are committed to changing their working conditions and creating reliefs that are necessary. But at the moment they are really at war, at war, at extremely difficult weather conditions and standing, and guarding as true border guards do what we should all be very grateful for. Now, colleagues from the Patriotic Front said that tomorrow they will propose a change in the law with which I hope this will become a fact, to extend the security facility. From then on, in the many talks not only with the minister of war, with the Chief of Staff, with the leaders of the individual troops, with colleagues from the Ministry of Interior, we have reached Of course, in the longer term, we could also benefit from other services that would help us with what you read in the law. It is normal for any minister to try to protect his subordinates more and not to enter into such operations because they are always expensive, and difficult, depreciated equipment and continuous movement of personnel, but I think both ministers at the moment, and the Deputy Prime Minister understand that we have no other choice and must defend the border in the best way. That's what we're doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u163	The line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u164	Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't answer why you didn't post 1,100 military officers to guard the border. I would like to add the following to what you have said. We from Ataka are glad that you have matured for what we started in the Forty-second National Assembly..................... the need for a secure metal facility to be built throughout the Bulgarian-Turkish border. However, all over the world border facilities are being built by armies, by the engineering troops of the country concerned. There is no such thing as a public procurement and the award of the construction of a state border to a private company. You may ask your colleague Mariano Rahoi. You often go to Israel, ask Minister Moshe Yaalon to explain to you how to build partitions along borders. The assignment of the construction of private companies is par excelance sabotage of national security at this point. That's one. Secondly, would you confirm that the border is currently guarded by the military police live chain after your Home Secretary said on the 6th that in one week all military officers will be pulled out? Where are they? How far from the furrow is it 15 kilometers inland that makes no sense to the guards, or are they on the furrow itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u165	Hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I explicitly stress that the border is being protected in the best way at the moment. Secondly, I also asked Military Intelligence, more precisely "Military information"........................ how is Greece, how is Turkey. Since you said there was no country in the world, private companies built the border in Greece. I'm ready to find a state enterprise to do it, but even if we do find it, this wire or everything else has to be bought. This is going through a public procurement. The other option is to come and tell you the prices, vote them in parliament so that we don't listen to any nonsense that could be spoken. Because on the one hand, we are both in a hurry to ensure security, and on the other hand, failing to comply with the law, we are going to enter other colonies, which I do not wish to do. The border is guarded in the best way! And I think military officers can be better used. We're working actively. Now the pressure is low. We have a month and a half or two until the end of March, when the warming of time will increase the pressure. Over 34-35,000 illegal immigrants have stopped at the border. Huge amount. So with all my efforts, I hope that this will continue and that we really are a reliable frontier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. And now, ABB. You're the last. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u168	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Vice Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I want to finally change the subject, talk a little bit about Bulgarian agriculture, about the bread of the people, about how we will solve the food problem. It is known that during this infinitely long transitional period the Bulgarian agricultural production fell to its lowest level, to the lowest point. Farming was the most affected. Fruit and vegetables production was also affected. Well, there's a ray of sunshine that's the grain production and production of oil crops, but it doesn't solve Bulgaria's problem because most of the grain is being exported out. It does not bring added value, is not processed here and also does not create jobs. I think we should do a very serious analysis because, in the meantime, Bulgarian agriculture is highly polarised. Now 5,500 farmers and large producers hold 80% of the land. They receive subsidies, respectively, and 250 thousand small producers are waiting for our decisions, what we will do, how we will save their production. My questions are related to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u169	Mr. Stankov, I apologize, you are entitled to one question that cannot be with such a particularity.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u170	I have not yet asked the question: what measures will the government take to solve the problems and how will we protect the Bulgarian producer and especially the Bulgarian producer of products? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u171	Mr. Stankov, this is rather a question of general control, as it concerns a whole sector policy. In this kind of control, which is for the first Wednesday.. on current issues within the last days and hours, a question is raised to the prime minister and his deputies. I will give you an opportunity to respond, but I ask all MPs to have the feeling of the difference between the two types of control in the future. You are right that the questions you are asking are relevant enough, but they are for Friday's control. It is a whole question about sectoral policy in this activity. We're listening, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u172	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The format of the procedure does not imply as detailed a response as I would like to provide you. You're right in your findings. If you compare the data on agricultural production volumes produced in the mid 1980s and compare them with production data now, you will notice that the only sphere, the only production where we produce more than 1984, is wheat production. In all other spheres, the production of meat, the production of milk, the production of fruit, today we are five, even in some ways and ten times down. We can look for a number of reasons for this state of affairs, but I prefer to focus on how the situation could change. The fact is that Bulgarian grain production, especially wheat, is obviously a competitive sector, but I also want fruit production, vegetables and livestock production to be competitive sectors for a number of reasons, one of which is that there is an extremely serious potential for generating employment. Perhaps as a share of gross domestic product, there is not much potential for an increase in agriculture as a percentage, but in terms of employment generation, I think it has great potential. Therefore, in addition to developing new, new and new strategic documents for decades to come, let us note what we have as part of the Rural Development Programme - one of the main instruments of influence of this industry. First of all, we have provided support, not only with the main focus of direct payments and support for the grain producers, but also with the targeted measures for fruit-trees, for vegetable producers and farmers, something that I am convinced will have an effect on this year from the point of view of investment in the industry, and from the point of view of production, even from the point of view of employment, although a large part of the measures will be related to farm equipment, and there the employment sector is not always so direct. In addition, we have a reform of the common agricultural policy relating to opportunities for small farmers to receive payments, as well as ceilings and thresholds in terms of the intensity of funding for the large, which I also believe will have a positive effect on the agricultural sector in Bulgaria. Two major themes s beyond, before, and perhaps after any strategies for unresolved issues of Bulgarian agriculture. I will only mark them as a follow-up topic for conversation: the coma, especially in some areas of the country, the fragmentation of ownership, which does not allow mechanized land processing; and a topic that is even heavier and more important the irrigation. Here the question is not only a volume of money, here the question is the best policy cut, which I am convinced together with the National Assembly will be developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u173	A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it is no coincidence that I put this question, because it is indeed very serious. It is an up-to-date issue because things are extremely difficult in the sector. I've had a lot of meetings with people. They're asking how we're gonna solve our problems, and soon. Fifteen chains in Bulgaria control 77% of the food market. Our production, though small, is still standing. These are questions that we have to solve and we have to solve them very quickly. The food problem is very serious! Very serious! We only satisfy 40 to 50% of people's needs. I will use other occasions, thank you for giving me this opportunity to put things as they stand. We have prepared a strategy that we want to present in Parliament. So we have to work on these issues and look for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-01-14.u175	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. A hole? You won't use it. Now I can say that the two rounds of questions have ended. Let us thank the Prime Minister, his deputies for the comprehensive answers. Before closing the plenary session, tomorrow a regular plenary session with starting time 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
