ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. Colleagues, today we will continue with the Additional Report, which the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government has presented, on discussions on the second vote yesterday General Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration the second reading. Previously, according to the clarification we made on Wednesday at the Conference of Presidents, for extraordinary plenary sessions in the Tuesdays remaining until the end of this session, and these are dates 14, 21 and 28 July, I suggest to your attention that we adopt a Decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 14 July 2015, Tuesday, from 11.00 to 17.00 on the following agenda: 1. Choice of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 10 June 2015. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Alexander Nenkov and a second bill with importers Dimitar Danev, Martin Dimitrov and Nayden Zelenogorski. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 169 MPs: 133, against 2, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, July 11th, is the 20th anniversary of the greatest tragedy that Europe has experienced since World War II. This is the mass slaughter of 8,000. innocent victims in Srebrenica. Srebrenica is the Balkan bell for tolerance. A monument of 8,000. victims whose memory weighs on Ratko Mladic's conscience. Bill Clinton and Madeline Albright will arrive in Srebrenica tomorrow, and Alexander Vucic will be there at a reconciliation meeting, in memory of the innocents who died because they were different. Different from what? We're all equally gifted with life, and that's all that matters. Life is an equal right and no one can bet it for language, name, faith. The Balkans are a land for everyone. They are undoubtedly a crossroads, but not just geographically, but more complex, mentally, philosophically, a crossroads of differences. The code of the Balkan in the co-operation is a gene, a priori, ancient Thracians, proto-Bulgarians, Slavs, later... [[Replys from "Attacka."]] Madam President, if the language of hatred and of Srebrenica is unable to silence, please pay attention! Here we owe a minimum of silence to the memory of the victims. Baptism and invasions do not erase, but determine a modern ethno-confessional map in the Balkans. They don't allow anyone on themselves, but more, not just more. Multiplicity is predestined and acceptable by law. Analogy and extradition are markers of historicality for the Balkans, and that is why the domesticity of this political oykonim is real, without leaving only toponym. However discourses change, their dialogue is constant, and of course mono is impossible. This is the most important thing we need to understand about the Balkans. Multiplicity has been given the highest and should therefore be acceptable by law. Bosnia and Herzegovina's son Ivo Andric, for a reason, donated his Nobel Prize for the most important bridge since his Drina Bridge on the Balkans to the European Union. Today, 2015, 54 years later, the interest rates of the time and memory of the victims in Srebrenica have long transposed the right of the Balkans to be part of the European Union. Srebrenica is a salvo in the hills of the bridge, but the people of the Balkans are entitled to their bridge to the European Union's coast, where solidarity and integration is the point. Love the people, help them often, and always feel for them, for all the people are needed, Ivo Andric said, and Oslo gave him his Nobel Prize. The European Union must donate the crossroads to Europe, the Balkans as shelters in its common home all Balkan peoples. This is the most serious resistance to the threats that come from the Islamic State. There is no more modern weapon against terrorism than solidarity and love between people's hearts. The Balkans are wisdom, heavy in history and diversity. Srebrenica is a memory that calls for a united and united Europe. Srebrenica is not a label of cabinet diplomacy. Srebrenica has been waiting 20 years for the Balkans to come home to Europe. The Union door must be opened. The Union cannot be a key, a barrier, a silence. We're all Balkans, so we're all Europeans. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe this is Srebrenica's most important lesson. There's actually two of them. It is also the first for us Bulgarian politicians, because we are politicians in a country, we represent a people who is blessed, unlike the peoples of the former Union Republic of Yugoslavia, not to have experienced the tragedy of ethnic conflicts. However, ethnic peace in the country is not only God's gift. Behind the peace stands the will of the Bulgarian civil society and Bulgarian politicians. Keeping it is our political duty. Srebrenica's second lesson, I've already said it. That is why we at the DPS are poisoning the politicians from Europe for a new updated Strategy for the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union. There are problems in the Balkans that could hardly be solved before the membership of the countries concerned in the European Union. There are problems that can be solved with and through their membership in the European Union. Srebrenica's bell should be heard. To hear the bell ringing of Srebrenica's conscience means that we have secured the Western Balkans' membership in the European Union. Then the memory of 8,000. Innocent victims will calm down. I repeat, when they see their explorers, though their differences, as brothers in our common home, the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Mr. Popov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, my procedure is in connection with art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the bills together with the reasons for them and the Reference under art. 73, para. 1 and the reports of the committee responsible shall be submitted to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the relevant meeting. In contrast to this imperative text of our Rules, the report of the committee responsible is presented, which is why we believe that it is unacceptable today to consider it in plenary. It's one procedure. My other procedure: if, after all, the plenary considers that this report should be examined today in the National Assembly, then I propose that the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works take part in the meeting, respectively, if it is not possible, one of the Deputy Ministers, and the Director of GRAO Mr. Getov. These changes are important, with important administrative and legal consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Minister Pavlova is on leave. Invite the Deputy Minister and representative of the CAO to participate in the debate. Mr. Zelenogorski... Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u6	There was a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u7	Colleagues, let me remind you of yesterday's finale. Texts that were being commented... We gave a break and there were two approaches: either in working order in the break to propose the final option... We agreed to postpone the debate on yesterday in order for the Commission to come together and submit a joint report. We're in the finals. We have one text. If you believe that this is a circumvention of the Rules, there is no obstacle, I will put to a deliberate vote, to stay for next week. But we've moved on long enough with this bill. And we're all in a hurry to prevent property or room registration practices, I'd say...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u8	They don't want to!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u9	...of countless numbers and citizens. I'm listening to your procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u10	They don't want to!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Perhaps most of you do not know that the general bill of the Code of Social Security has been introduced and a deadline has passed. For this reason, because this law concerns many civil associations, millions of Bulgarian citizens and their fates, it cannot be rushed so quickly. There are many things that need to be reviewed, relevant proposals for a second vote should be tabled. For this reason, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the time limit for submitting proposals for a second vote to a General Law on the Social Security Code by No 553-08-47 from 8 July 2015 be extended from 7 to 14 days. I hope this proposal will be supported. Again, this is about an extremely serious bill, and it's been three days now. Many of the citizens and associations that are interested do not know about this thing at all. So I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u12	Welcome back, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a reverse offer. The law on changing the Social Security Code was voted on last Thursday, which means we already have one week and from now on we have another week. So we have two weeks to make repairs. These are my formal arguments of the proposed by my colleague Bajraktarov. But I know that he has both informal and unspoken motives to postpone the bill so that it is impossible for him to watch until the end of this summer session. I therefore ask the majority, which wants the government to succeed, at least one of the reforms to be completed, not to support its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u14	August month is also a suitable month for extraordinary meetings and work in plenary. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the deadline for proposals to 14 days under the general bill of the Social Security Code. Voting mode. They voted 139 MPs: 25, against 61, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE CIVIL REGISTERATION Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u15	Revoting! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u16	I gave the word to Mr. Zelenogorski! You've had enough time to react, Mr. Bayraktarov! You're usually more efficient. I'm sorry. There's a word for Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u17	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the council! [[Laughter and applause.]] This is not insulting, ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u18	Colleagues, please order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u19	After all, 12 years of practice, you know how it is. I would like to introduce you to the Additional Report to the Commission's main report under the Law amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. We've reached § 19. The proposal by Mr. Dobromir Prodanov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn. The Commission does not, in principle, support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the order of art. 19a, para. 2 the names of deceased Bulgarian citizens who have been forced to change and have not been recovered under the terms and conditions of § 1b may be restored. The application in this case shall be submitted by an heir to the deceased. In the event of disagreement between the heirs of the deceased, the dispute shall be settled by the district court. This is the text that was adopted yesterday by the Commission, which is leading under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 19, according to the Commission's Additional Report. Vote 153 MPs: 128, against 22, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[(BSP LB: Why don't you give the floor?]] For a negative vote?! [[BSP LB.]] Because, colleagues, you're all talking, I'm not hearing about a negative vote. Who wants a negative vote? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Jankova spoke yesterday, but the Commission's proposal is on the Additional Report from today, so there is no obstacle to expressing her negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u21	Madam President, I have raised my hand to speak on this paragraph, and since you have not given me the floor, I would like... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You didn't give me the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u22	Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Tsochev said categorically, even if I didn't see that after I announced the vote, you then gave a sign that you wanted to speak. Four people are here with four pairs and several glasses we see who, when and how he applied for a statement. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u23	Madam President! To comfort the Members of the National Assembly, since we are making a change in which the current Law in § 1a provides that when there is an agreement between the heirs, this act can be carried out, that is to say, in the general agreement between the heirs, the changed names of the old and the elderly parents can be forced back. Our concern, and that is why we wanted a debate with representatives of the CSO, is: how will the disagreement be seen? In parallel to this, an heir when asked for the name of the deceased to be restored, and it is contained either as a fatherly or as a family.... what happens as this is recorded in the Gravity? In parallel to this, with the many documents that go so far, as a certificate of heirs, restitution, the Agency of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Since one thing is when the family is solidarity and consent, another is when one has filed a request and when one has issued a request and the other does not know when the other will know when the other? [[Heckling]] Yeah, time in the future will say whether it's working or not. I know he must be in a hurry on certain political issues. We have our concerns and we wanted a debate on this issue. It's usually fair when the family is in agreement, and it could also give additional complications that you probably don't understand why you're doing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Second negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against the texts of the Bill, as I believe that this will create huge problems in Bulgarian legislation, in the exercise of a right that is in the face of the person on behalf of a deceased person, and only one of the heirs. Mrs. Yankova is right: what will happen to the Trade Register, the Registry Office? In fact, this will create at least enormous prerequisites for fraudulent action, and in fact, these texts mean, in essence, a new Revival process. It is unacceptable, when a right is in the light of the person's personality, another person, was he heir in a straight line, to exercise that right, despite the unknown will of the deceased or the other heirs. It is unacceptable in a rule of law in such an imperative way to seize them with only one volition of the rights and freedoms of already deceased people and their heirs. Again, this will create huge difficulties of administrative order and with many negative legal consequences for Bulgarian citizens and the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u26	Third negative vote? I won't. I'm listening, Mr. Zelenogorski, §20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u27	Madam President, colleagues! This is the last paragraph: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u28	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Final texts will have work to do on numbering the paragraphs. They voted 115 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The entire bill was adopted at second reading. Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE GENERAL LONG LAW. Reports of the Committee on Budget and Finance and of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. We're listening to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u29	Madam President, first of all, procedure. I request that Mr. Kiril Ananiev be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u30	Honourable Members, we are voting on this proposal. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u31	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act, No 502-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2015. At a meeting held on 18 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev, who presented the bill. The main motive for the adoption of the Bill is the synchronization of the provisions of the State Debt Act with those of the Public Finance Act. It is regulated the possibility for municipalities to undertake a new debt for the implementation of long-term contracts with a guaranteed result......................................................................................... This will enable municipalities to carry out activities in order to increase energy efficiency in buildings or other sites and systems with which municipalities will optimize their future costs. The amendments proposed in the Bill also reflect the commitments for the publication of the Central Register. It falls within the scope of the data to be published in open format, according to the commitments set out in the second action plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for participation in the Open Government Partnership initiative. The importer stated the support for the bill by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In the course of the discussion the question was asked whether an assessment of the impact on the current Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria was made. Deputy Minister Ananiev said there is no accurate information about the conclusion of ECCO contracts. There are no factors that will lead to a change of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................... 15 MPs, no................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act, No 502-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. You have the floor, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act No 502-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 18 June 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the Commission meeting. The proposed changes are in three main directions. First of all, the Law achieves the synchronization of the provisions of the Municipal Debt Act with those of the Public Finance Act. The types of long-term and short-term debt can be clearly defined, which can be borne by the municipality concerned. The procedures for assuming municipal debt are revised and the possibility of the Minister of Finance giving instructions on their implementation is regulated. Next, the possibility of municipalities to assume a new debt for the realization of long-term contracts with a guaranteed result is regulated, as well as restrictions on the acquisition of such debt. In this way, it creates opportunities for municipalities to carry out a number of activities and to take measures to increase energy efficiency in buildings and/or other sites and systems with which municipalities will optimize their future costs. The proposed changes also reflect the commitments related to the publication of information in the open format set out in the Second Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for participation in the Open Governance Partnership initiative, in the National Reform Programme 2020, and in the National Development Programme Bulgaria 2020, as in the scope of the documents published in the open format, the information in the Central Register of Municipal Debt. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government unanimously, with 15 votes
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. On behalf of the importer, would anyone like to argue with the Bill? Okay, maybe in the debate process. I open the debates on the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act in the first vote. Please, are there anyone who would like to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u35	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u36	Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! This Law lays down the terms and conditions for taking over municipal debt and for issuing municipal guarantees, as well as the types of municipal debt. With regard to the quoted bill, we express the following opinion. We believe that the exclusion of the debt of municipal enterprises from the scope of municipal debt, the cancellation of the fixed deadline for repayment of short-term municipal debt and the introduction of free public access to debt information through the website of the Ministry of Finance are positive and appropriate changes in view of which we support them. We also support the proposal for a new norm governing the possibility of municipalities to undertake a new debt to implement long-term contracts with a guaranteed result, as well as a prescribed limit. On the occasion of the project for annulment of art. 6 I suggest the same to be maintained in the following version: The sources for service of the municipal debt are defined in art. 45, para. 1, t. 1, t. 3, p. 4 et c. 5 of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u38	Mr. Ahmedov, excuse me for interrupting you are now speeches on the philosophy and principle of the Bill, and these proposals can be made between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u39	Yes, I accept that, Mr. Chairman. This is for the purpose of synchronizing the two laws "The Public Finance Act and the Municipal Debt Act." We'll offer to drop it naturally and art. 17 of the Law on Municipal Debt, because the thus regulated ban contradicts the Law on Local Self-Management, which governs the powers of the municipal council, also makes the investment activity of the municipality difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the bill. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the plenary for a vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act, No 502-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 96 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, and with this at first reading and the current Bill. We move on to the next bill on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The bill is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to three other committees. There is also an opinion from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, provide us with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request a procedure.. Access to the hall of Deputy Minister Ananiev. He was admitted to the hall under the previous law. Allowance for Mr. Dimitar Kostov "Deputy Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank," and Snezana Koleva "Expert from the Ministry of Finance."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u42	Honourable Members, please vote on admission to the House of the listed persons. Vote 79 MPs: 78 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Koleva and Mr. Kostov please be invited to the hall by the Quaestors. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u43	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015. At a meeting held on 18 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by Feizi Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance; Dimitar Kostov Deputy Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank; Veselina Mandadjieva Head of Department of the Financial Supervision Commission; Boyan Kolev Expert in the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, and Irina Martseva Secretary General of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Bekir. The proposed Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries aims to introduce into the Bulgarian legislation of Directive 2014/59/EU a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. The directive aims to establish an effective framework at European level to address bank crises at a sufficiently early stage so as to prevent financial problems being transferred to individual credit institutions on the whole banking system and to eliminate as much as possible the need to use public funds to support insolvency banks. The bill introduces the rules and procedures relating to the recovery and restructuring of banks, investment firms and other persons referred to in the Bill. The Bulgarian National Bank has been designated as a resolution authority and the Financial Supervision Commission has been designated as a resolution authority for investment firms. The resolution authority shall inform the Minister of Finance of its decisions, such as decisions having a negative impact on public finances, of the need to use state financial support instruments or taken in a systemic financial crisis, shall be subject to implementation following the approval of the Minister of Finance. The Bill sets out the rules, procedures and requirements regarding planning and preparation of recovery and restructuring. The draft introduces requirements for banks and investment firms to prepare and update recovery plans containing measures and procedures to take early action in the event of deterioration of their financial situation, as well as to draw up restructuring plans aimed at restructuring a bank or investment firm by minimizing losses for taxpayers and keeping the institution's core business critical functions. The draft provides for the resolution authority to carry out an assessment of the resolution capabilities which may result in requirements for simplifying the activities of the bank or investment firm or the structure of the group of which the institution is part. The restructuring aims to achieve, within an accelerated period of results similar to the normal insolvency procedure, the distribution of losses between shareholders and creditors, while maintaining financial stability and limiting losses for taxpayers, where the Bank/investment firm's declaration of insolvency would jeopardise the public interest and would pose a threat to financial stability. The objectives of the restructuring set out in the Bill are to ensure continuity of critical functions for the bank or investment firm, avoiding adverse effects on financial stability, protecting public funds by minimizing dependence on exceptional public financial support, as well as protecting investors with guaranteed deposits, customer funds and assets. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, the Bill introduces the following restructuring instruments: sale of business, bridge institution, asset identification and loss sharing. In line with the possibility provided for in the Directive, two additional restructuring instruments have been introduced, a State capital support instrument and a temporary state property instrument, which constitute state financial stabilisation instruments. A competent authority to decide on the implementation of these instruments shall be the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The bill provides for the establishment of a Bank Restructuring Fund, which is managed by the Governing Council of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks. Similarly, the bill provides for the establishment of the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund, which is managed by the Governing Council of the Investor Compensation Fund and which collects contributions from investment firms that fall within the scope of the Bill. In line with the commitments made in the National Reform Programme Europe 2020, adopted on 5 May 2015 by the Council of Ministers, the BNB is intended to organise a review of the quality of the assets of the entire banking system, including a verification of the quality and adequacy of the valuations used for asset value, accepted collateral and valuation and improvisation practices, with the participation of independent outsiders with a high professional reputation. The Financial Supervision Commission will, in turn, organise a review of the assets of pension funds and the balance sheets of insurers, in the case of independent external persons and institutions with a high professional reputation. It should be borne in mind that the time limit for transposition of Directive 2014/59/EU has expired and that the European Commission has launched infringement procedure No 2015/0014 on non-compliance with the obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, I expect a summary of the report from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u45	♪ I can't believe under a bill for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 24 June 2015 examined and discussed the Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries. The bill was presented by Karina Karaivanova. The Bill sets out the rules, procedures and requirements regarding planning and preparation of recovery and restructuring. The recovery plans as well as their annual update shall be subject to the approval of the competent supervisory authority for the institution concerned, BNB or CFO. It is envisaged that the resolution authority may appoint a temporary manager of a bank or investment firm to work jointly with or temporarily replace the institution's management body. The bill provides that the target level of the funds collected in the Bank Restructuring Fund will be 2 per cent of the amount of guaranteed deposits in banks authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is higher than the level laid down in Directive 2014/59/EU. The target level is intended to be reached within 10 years of the entry into force of the Law. Similarly to the Bank Restructuring Fund, the Bill provides for the establishment of the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund, which is managed by the Governing Council of the Investor Compensation Fund. The bill contains provisions on the procedure for the detection of infringements and the imposition of penalties, as well as those governing the right to challenge the decisions of the BNB. The transitional and final provisions make corresponding changes to a number of laws currently in force. After the end of the discussion and vote with results:........................ 17 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The Committee on Legal Affairs.. First-vote report. Mr. Kirilov, a summary please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015. At its meeting held on 23 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the quoted bill. The meeting was attended by all those mentioned in the previous reports, representatives of the institutions. The bill was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova. The proposed Bill in the Bulgarian legislation introduces the provisions of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms and amending Council Directive 82/891/EEC and Directives detailed in the reasons and text of the Bill. In the course of the discussion, the People's Representative Petar Slavov raised a question whether the Bill provides for a hypothesis in which the funds from the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks will be used to support banks in difficulty before the stage in which the bank is placed under special supervision or is declared in bankruptcy, as well as if a mechanism is provided, in case the bank, despite the support, fails and needs to be paid back a second time. In response, Mr. Kostov explained that with the directive such an opportunity is provided for under clear rules. It clarified that the bank's liquidity situation is achieved in the case of restructuring, where the availability of deposits is guaranteed and the Bank's Deposit Guarantee Fund does not commit itself to an amount greater than that to which it would commit itself if the restructuring was not carried out and went bankrupt. Mr. Kostov stressed that the protection is throughout the restructuring procedure. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 2 votes for the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u48	Thank you. We also have to hear the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds - a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The draft Law aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms and amending Directive 82/891/EEC and Directives 2001/24/EC, 2002/47/EC, 2004/25/EC, 2005/56/EC, 2007/36/EC, 2011/35/EU, 2012/30/EU and 2013/36/EU and Regulations (EU) 1093/2010 and (EU) 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The above directive aims to establish an EU-level framework for early effective resolution of banking crises in order to minimise the need for public financing of insolvency banks, as well as the spread of the problem on the entire financial system of the Member State. The draft law transposes the rules and procedures relating to the recovery and restructuring of banks, investment firms and other persons specifically mentioned therein. The Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission are the Bulgarian resolution authorities of banks and investment firms respectively. They should inform the Minister of Finance of their decisions. In certain cases, the implementation of these decisions takes place following the approval of the Minister of Finance, where it is possible to come to the use of state instruments for financial support or which are taken in a situation of systemic financial crisis. The draft law lists the rules, procedures and requirements regarding planning and preparation of recovery and restructuring. The resolution authority shall assess the resolution options. It may result in simplification requirements for the activities of the bank, investment firm or group structure of which the institution is part. In accordance with the requirements of Directive 2014/59/EU, the Bill introduces the following restructuring instruments: sale of business, bridge institution, asset identification and loss sharing. Also in line with the Directive, two additional restructuring instruments are provided for a State capital support instrument and a temporary state property instrument. The draft proposes the establishment of a Bank Restructuring Fund, which is managed by the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, as well as the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund, which is managed by the Governing Council of the Investor Compensation Fund. In addition, according to our country's commitments under the updated National Reform Programme adopted in 2015 by the Council of Ministers in implementation of the "Europe 2020" Strategy, BNB is envisaged to organise a review of the quality of the assets of the entire banking system and the Financial Supervision Commission to organise a review of the assets of the pension funds and of the balance sheets of the insurers, in the case of independent outsiders and institutions with high professional reputation. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that the time limit for transposition of the Directive has expired. As a result, the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings No 2015/0014, part of a pre-trial phase of non-compliance with the obligations arising from our country's membership in the EU. In conclusion, the proposed bill is in line with European Union law and correctly transposed into Bulgarian law the provisions of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously voted for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 502-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 June 2015..........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! We have heard the reports of the committees on this bill. Yes, it is an attempt to regulate the role of the state in cases of problems in banks. Most of the texts are really transposition of the directive. The bill has been tabled by the Council of Ministers, but it is evident that the authorship of the Bulgarian National Bank, in which of course there is nothing wrong, but also this is the reason why we should be much more careful in a number of the texts that are being offered to us. I will address two problems, in our view, in this proposed Bill, which give and stimulate the risky behaviour of the banks, namely the conflict of interest and the lack of responsibility, after all that we have a year as a crisis in the banking system. The feeling from the proposed Bill is that banks cannot fail, but must always be saved, of course, with the help of the state. In our view, the spirit of this Law is mistaken because it only leads to stimulating the irrational behaviour of banks, and their governing bodies will remain under the impression that whatever happens, whatever they do, the state will be the one to save them, there will be a fund to save them. However, the price for these foolish actions, fellow Members, will again pay all of us, our financial system and our security. This bill is very similar to the statement of a Nobel laureate for economics Milton Friedman, who says that the American economic system is socialism for the rich and free initiative for everyone else. And when a poor man can't pay his debt, he lives in his car, and when a banker can't pay his debt, then taxpayers have to save him. We consider it best to have market relations in these cases, which also suggest the possibility and bankruptcy of banks that behave unreasonablely, or their recovery to be done by shareholders' funds and, of course, by means of market funds. With the proposed Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators, the European Union will drown in its own bureaucracy, in my opinion. The banking regulation documents are so many that those who have to implement them will hardly be able to do so, and in fact this new Law does not say much new things that we do not have in our legislation. Otherwise, the proposed amendments relate to additional bureaucracy, the creation of new structures, the recruitment of new employees and the payment of large salaries, of course, and new contributions to a new fund that is being created. The law provides for the creation of a new structure, which should work in the structure of the Bulgarian National Bank. When we discussed it in the Budget Committee, we asked: why should it be in the Bulgarian National Bank? Why not try the practice of other countries this structure to be outside the bank, given also what is happening in recent months, and the report, which came out of the Commission on KTB, the assessment of the work of the Bulgarian National Bank and the supervision, the reply of the representative of the Bulgarian National Bank Mr. Kostov, was that, you see, the Bulgarian National Bank has the information, has the built structures, has the experience and therefore it is better and logical to be there. I am not of the same opinion, again I say, given the Commission's report, and all that is happening in the country in the last year. It is not a bad and scary toolbox, which is available with this Bill, although it is large and heavy. The scarier thing is how it will be applied and by whom this toolbox will be applied. The new unit's proposal to work in the Bulgarian National Bank also implies a conflict of interest, we believe, because BNB will have to protect the interests of both the banking institutions in difficulties and consumers. And guess whose side he's gonna take. It is not clear under what circumstances supervision will recognise that a certain bank has fallen into this state and that the rights of its Board should be revoked. If we rely on the bank or this body to monitor the financial indicators, then I will give an example of what happened last year, when the Corporate Commercial Bank purchased the Bank. The results were brilliant. Similar units in the European Union, in some countries, are outside the central banks, and I believe that this can be debated and can be discussed. I am convinced that there is no colleague in this House who does not agree that there should be responsibility for what is happening in the banks, both by the Supervisory Board, by the Governing Council of the Bank and, of course, in this case, by the new unit that will be created. Impression, colleagues, makes art. 5, which grants discharge to the Governing Council of the Bulgarian National Bank and, of course, the Financial Supervision Commission for actions and omissions in cases where there is no intention. What are we really saying: the responsibility of these authorities will not again bear or bear group irresponsibility? To my question: why is this accepted in the Bill, the answer of the BNB's undergraduator was: Yeah, but I don't. The directive does not say that, Members. What the Directive on the establishment of a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions says, art. 3, p. 12: without prejudice to art. 85, Member States may, in accordance with national law,.. may, in accordance with national law, restrict the responsibility of the resolution authority, competent authorities and their respective personnel for actions and omissions in the performance of their duties. We absolutely do not accept the offer of irresponsibility. We absolutely do not accept that we do not know who will be responsible for these actions. Between first and second readings we will make our proposals and, hopefully, they will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? Here you are, not as a replica, but as a position on behalf of the management of the Bulgarian National Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some further clarification, as the text is obviously very large At the very beginning of the speech it was said that it was about feelings being created, about unfair or non-market treatment, but bear in mind that the European Union itself, in order to reach this directive, has made efforts for about three years. In order not to reach sensations, i.e. conclusions based on sensations, should be examined in detail in order to actually see what the protections of the public interest laid down in the Directive are. On account of the responsibility, I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that it is only a matter of financial responsibility. It is normal, and most human activities, because of the very fact that they are based on human communication, are accompanied by the real probability of property responsibilities. The simplest example is even when a person drives a car, there may be some harm to others, and therefore insurances are created............................................................................................ In this case, by entrusting such tasks to public authorities where it is obvious that a balance between different interests must be sought, it is obvious that a situation can always arise where those interests do not feel unaffected and seek appropriate financial responsibility. What the directive actually says is that there are two possible approaches: one is the market approach where this responsibility is covered by insurance. The other is because in this case it is not about individualised benefits of these decisions, to regulate this insurance. If there is to be no legal treatment of insurance of this liability, then it is evident that it is a private decision based on damage insurance. This would certainly be an appetizing market niche for the insurance companies. I sincerely hope that this is not about lobbying, but in line with the possibility given in the directive and which the European Union has given to all countries, the proposal is simply that this insurance is made in this way, as the Bulgarian insurance market is not sufficiently developed and deep enough to be able to bear at a reasonable cost the provision of such insurance liability. I think I'm gonna limit myself to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kostov. For speech Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who is giving up. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote at first reading the Bill on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 101 MPs: 93, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMY, THE FEATURES, THE TRANSPARENT INGREDIENTS AND THE PYROTECHIC ARTICLES. There's no question about it. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u55	Madam President, I ask you, on the basis of the Rules, to put to the vote a procedural proposal of my part for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u56	Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 85 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u57	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u58	We vote. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u59	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, t. 8 The Union shall be deleted, a comma shall be added and written agreement shall be added under art. 126b, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u60	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u61	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1 after the word "trade" the word "trade" shall be inserted and the words "s" and/or transport in the case of "sales" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u62	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the report. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u63	No proposals have been made under § 3 and § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 and § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u64	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u65	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 121a: Art. 121a. (1) Export of firearms and ammunition to them, except those referred to in art. 5, para. 1 shall be carried out by natural and legal persons registered as traders under the national law of a Member State and by persons established by law or by an act of the Council of Ministers after obtaining authorisation for the export of firearms and ammunition, with the exception of those under art. 5, para. 1 issued by the Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior or by an official authorised by him. (2) Exports under para. 1 shall be implemented subject to the requirements and procedures of Regulation (EU) No 258/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 implementing art. 10 of the United Nations Protocol against the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition complementary to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (?) and establishing export authorisations and measures for the import and transit of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition (OJ L 94/1 of 30 March 2012.), hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) No 258/2012. (3) The persons under para. 1 submit to the Director of the DGN of the Ministry of Interior an application on a template, the documents under art. 121, para. 2, p. 1, 2, 6, 7, 8 and 11 and: 1. a document issued by a competent authority of the third country of import certifying that it has authorised imports where provided for in its national legislation; 2. a document stating that the third country of transit concerned has no objection to the implementation of the transit; 3. completed export authorisation form in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 258/2012. (4) The documents under para. 3, p. 2 shall not be required in the cases referred to in art. 7, Paragraph 1, point (b) of Regulation (EU) No 258/2012. (5) When the person under para. 1 has been authorised to produce, trade or storage under this Law, it does not submit the documents under art. 121, para. 2, p. 1 and 2. (6) Where firearms and their ammunition fall within the scope of the Law on the Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products, the requirements laid down therein shall also apply and the documents under art. 121, para. 2, p. 1, 2 and 6. (7) The authorisation under para. 1 accompanying the delivery and shall be submitted upon request by the competent authorities of the countries in which the delivery is carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u66	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u67	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 2: (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." a document issued by a competent authority of the third country of import certifying that it authorised imports where provided for in its national legislation (b) To be created t. 3a: 3a. a document stating that the third country of transit concerned has no objection to the implementation of the transit on export; 2. A new para is being created. 3: The documents referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2, p. This is not required in cases referred to in art. Point (b) of Article 7 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 258/2012 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u68	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 in the version of the report. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote the procedure for extending the time until the vote on this bill is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u70	Colleagues, there are only a few import texts. We have no more than 10 minutes to work with which we will enter the time of parliamentary control. However, due to absent MPs and ministers, we will not seal the time until 2:00 p.m. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u71	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is replaced Art. 122a. (1) Export authorisation under art. 121a, para. 1 shall not be required for temporary export or re-export where: 1. Temporary exports shall be carried out by persons authorised to carry and use in accordance with Chapter Four of firearms and ammunition for hunting or sporting purposes and shall have at the same time the following conditions: (a) accompany firearms and ammunition when travelling to the third country; (b) provide a document certifying the reason for the export of an invitation or other document certifying participation in a sporting or hunting event; (c) the quantity of ammunition shall not exceed a total of 800 for hunting purposes and a total of 1200 for sport purposes; 2. The re-export shall take place after temporary import for hunting or sporting purposes and the ownership of firearms has not changed. (2) Temporary export under para. 1, t. 1 is carried out by presenting a European passport for firearms.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u72	Statements? I won't. We vote § 7. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u73	By § 8, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. There are no proposals made. The Commission also supports the text of the importer under § 9. There are no proposals made.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u74	We are voting on the two import paragraphs supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u75	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 126a and 126b: Art. 126a. (1) No export authorisation is required for re-export of: 1. firearms, except those referred to in art. 5, para. 1 after temporary import for the purpose of carrying out an expert assessment, participation in a trade exhibition under art. 49 without sale or repair provided that the property has not changed; 2. firearms and ammunition for them, except those under art. 5, para. 1 where they are stored in a temporary warehouse from their entry into the customs territory of the European Union until they leave. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the person who is re-exporting shall submit a written notification to the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police and to the Ministry of Interior no later than two days before it is carried out. (3) When firearms, and in the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and their ammunition fall within the scope of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products, and the requirements laid down therein shall also apply. Art. 126b. (1) Temporary export of firearms, except those referred to in art. 5, para. 1 for the purpose of carrying out an expert assessment, participation in a commercial exhibition without sale or repair shall be carried out without authorisation for export after receipt of written consent issued by the Director of the Directorate General of the Ministry of Interior or by a person authorised by him. (2) The person to carry out the temporary export under para. 1 shall submit to the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police (MI) an application on a model accompanied by a copy of the authorisations issued under this Law, a copy of the customs documents certifying the temporary export and a document for payment of a fee of an amount determined by the tariff under art. 12. (3) The Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior or an official authorised by him shall issue the written consent in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 124 within 7 days of submission of the application under para. 2. (4) The written consent under para. 1 shall be valid for up to three months from the date of receipt and may be used once. (5) The written consent given under para. 1 applies only to the firearms specified in it and may only be used by the person under whose name it has been issued. (6) Where firearms fall within the scope of the Law on the Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products, the requirements laid down therein shall also apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u76	Statements? I won't. We vote § 10. Vote 89 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u77	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 211a: Art. 211a. (1) Who does not notify within the time limit the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police for the execution of a re-export under art. 126a, is punished with a fine from 500 to 1000 leva. and/or with a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 is required fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN. and/or penalty from 6000 to 10 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u78	We vote § 11. Vote 94 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u79	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov - § 12 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u80	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 12 by importer. They voted 93 MPs: 89, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u81	There is a proposal made by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov to create new paragraphs 12 and 13. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up closing provisions by paragraphs 12 and 13. "Concluding provisions' § 12. The Ministry of Interior Act makes the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 is created t. 10: ..10. the establishment and use of non-profit legal entities or commercial entities under conditions and by order established by a cover law in an investigation with an undercover employee or in the conduct of undercover operations under point (c). 7. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 after the words § 13. In the Special Intelligence Means Act of art. 20, para. 1, t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." The Ministry of Interior for the Special Intelligence Means under art. 10b and Article 10c, as well as the special means of intelligence under art. 10a in cases where an undercover employee is used.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u82	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the final provisions of paragraphs 12 and 13 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted, and with that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles is amended.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u83	Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u84	Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 3 to 9 July 2015 A question came in from: - National Representative Slavi Binev to Vezdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture, on a policy for conservation of cultural monuments of national importance. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 17 July 2015; - National Representative Ivan Kostadinov Stankov to Todor Tanev, Minister of Education and Science, on a common vision of the Ministry of Education for the elaboration of a new Law on Higher Education. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 17 July 2015; Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin. [[Noise and lines, MPs coming out of the room.]] Colleagues, this House does not look at all like a plenary sitting, so it is also under control. Written response from: - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from MP Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from MP Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MP Petar Slavov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Hristov, Bjunymin Hassan, Aidoan Ali, Hamid Hamid and Ivan Vladimirov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Ercan Ebatin; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Vladislav Nikolov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov. First in today's parliamentary control will respond to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister. Previously on the procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u85	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Grotesquely, it seems that the work to extend working hours because of the control to 17:00 and 14 questions today to find their answer. The cabinet is disrespectful to the National Assembly! What important state responsibilities do the ministers require not to fulfil their constitutional obligation to parliamentary control? I ask you to come into contact with the Prime Minister and explain to the ministers that they have constitutional obligations! Not to give press conferences from the sea in the summer season, but to come here on Friday and answer. What do we do as National Assembly? About 120 questions waiting for an answer. Today we will respond to 14 ministers. We ourselves don't respect the work we do. Please take action, you know that there are extraordinary meetings, extended working hours, there is little time left until the end of the session! The ministers don't seem to care. I ask you to take action for the ministers to fulfil their constitutional obligations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I share your view that every cabinet member is obliged on Friday to attend parliamentary control, all the more so because of the accumulation of the issues, according to our decision today we should be working with extended time until 17.00. I have reacted yesterday, all parliamentary secretaries have been warned, but the ministers have international commitments. Some of them are out of the country. Some are in the country, but again with international commitments and, unfortunately, there are also people who are on vacation due to the season we are in, but you are right, Mr. Mikov. I have reacted in due course yesterday, and I will insist that we have a wider presence on the part of the cabinet next week. First will ask Mrs. Bachvarova a question about additional involvement of police forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, my question to you is about additional involvement of police forces. In this regard, have there been in recent months, as a result of the conflict situations created in the country, which have grown into tensions between individual groups of Bulgarian citizens, further involvement of police forces? Has the Ministry of Interior worked overtime since the beginning of the year? If there is, how does it affect the motivation of the employees in the Ministry of Interior system and are all the funds due at the moment, according to the regulations for overtime of police officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u88	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u89	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Iankov! Yes, since the beginning of the year, as a result of our efforts to deal with current events in the country related to conflict situations, there has been further involvement of police forces. With regard to events in Garmen, we have 114 people who have been posted, and to those who are in Orlandovtsi, to what was happening in Orlandovtsi, a total of 370 employees from different district directorates were posted. This is necessary because events also require it because of certain features of the Regulation which regulates overtime. You know that 280 hours is the maximum of this labor. There are separate structures in which this maximum is reached or approached, there are others where it is not reached, so we also need to post. But under the internal rules of the Ministry of Interior, I can tell you that overtime is registered and is charged to the monthly remuneration of the employees in the month that followed the posting itself. The information I have from the Ministry is that no late payments have been made. As far as motivation is concerned, I think that the possibility of extra pay is one factor that also works positively in this direction, and I could not say at the moment that there are serious signs of demotivation. More importantly, what I want to inform you about is that, by my order of 7 July, a working group has been established, which includes 17 people, mainly representatives of the trade unions, with the aim of improving the overtime regulation, so that we can make our opportunities more flexible and more effective when we have to fulfil our obligations. I have a reference, if that's what you're interested in, by months and by the individual district directorates, what is the volume of this overtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u90	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u91	Madam President, honourable Members. Mrs. Bachvarova, with particular interest are following your response most likely all employees from the Ministry of Interior system. My question was dictated in connection with signals and information we have about delaying such overtime payments. You stated that regularly, within the next month after the reference was made, everything was paid off. You have just informed us what we know from the media that a working group has been formed with your order from the seventh task force to discuss and prepare changes to the Regulation on order, organization and distribution of working hours, where representatives of all trade unions are also invited by a working group. Meanwhile, the same day you ordered Deputy Minister Georgiev to head the Partnership Council. And today, July 10 will also have a meeting to continue negotiations with the trade unions regarding their demands. Today is the day when the unions in the Ministry of Interior, the Syndical Federation of Ministry of Interior employees informed you that if they do not continue these talks and negotiations regarding their demands, they will turn to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you are the minister of office, the ministry, which is very often required to respond adequately, including for hours. This delay in negotiations, with employees regarding their requests [[the President signals that time has run out]] , does not correspond to your commitment as a minister, which should have an adequate timely response. This delay...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u92	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I gave you a sign that time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u93	...will actually create problems and create tension in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u94	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u95	Dear Mr. Yankov, the decision on these working groups was taken at a meeting between the trade unions and Mr. Georgiev last Friday, but in order to have a warrant for such a group, the names should be given. Names until yesterday have been specified. In fact, not until yesterday, but until the day the order was issued and therefore there is a few days delay, but this is not a refusal of dialogue in any way. It is a matter of technological clarification of the composition of this committee. In addition, I would like to say that my order states that all the costs of participating in this working group are borne by the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Two questions follow, which have a common answer, as they pose the same problem. First in time will develop its question by the people representative Krasimir Yankov on the assessment of the results of the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. After him the People's Representative Slavi Binev, about a check in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna. It's a common procedure. I recall: Mr. Iankov two minutes for the question, Mr. Binev two minutes for the question, follows a general answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Bachvarova, then respectively an opportunity for a reply from Mr. Iankov, a reply from Mr. Binev and a common duplicate from Mrs. Bachvarova. We're listening, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam Minister! In public statements on the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna, in the beginning of June you said: We have a new management team of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Varna, precisely because I know about existing problems and expect results as soon as possible. In this regard, my question to you is also: what are the problems found in the Directorate-General, if you can brief us specifically, and are there also concrete results announced as expected by you as soon as possible? What is your assessment in the second quarter of the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u98	Mr. Binev, we are waiting for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u99	Madam President, dear colleagues, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister! My question is very specific. I am addressing you in connection with the scandalous case of pickpockets who are unpunished in the city of Varna. Pickpockets have been doing a number of thefts for years. Officials of the Ministry of Interior not only have not taken decisive measures against this, but have also allowed the persons concerned to carry out their criminal activities undisturbedly. I would like to ask you if the Ministry of Interior has received signals concerning the problem concerned, and what measures have been taken by the Ministry? When proving complicity or inaction by employees of the Ministry of Interior will they bear their punishment and responsibility, because this can sabotage not only the problems with citizens, but also the tourist season? However, domestic crime is a point in the political party that I represent. How are internal controls in the Ministry of Interior and is there a mechanism in place to counter corruption in carrying out the checks? Will an analysis of the current state of law enforcement in the country be carried out? And a recommendation. I believe that you should present the results of the checks initiated by you to the National Assembly. This will create more clarity on the issue in order to identify new measures to address this serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u100	For a general answer Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u101	Dear Madam President, Mr. Iankov, I have two separate questions and I will try to answer you in a combined manner. So I'm going to ask for your understanding. First of all, I would like to say that the verification that I have appointed as soon as the case of negative practices has become known in the treatment of pickpocketing is in its final. It was supposed to end at the end of this week, but in order not to delay the answer to my question before you, I will now present the preliminary results I have requested from my colleagues. I expect their final findings and proposals for measures to be taken. Mr. Iankov, and in previous inquiries it was said that there was a very clearly defined system in the Ministry of Interior to assess the activities of the various regional directorates. It has been ordered by the Minister since October 2014. I think it works well, on four criteria the work is evaluated. I can confirm that until the changes we made in Varna, the assessments for the work of this regional directorate were the lowest. Now, for the period from April to June 30, the final evaluation has not ended, but a few facts that I would like to tell you. There is a reduction in the crimes committed and, at the same time, an increase in disclosure rate by about 15%. There, for the same period, in terms of economic crimes, there is also an improvement in indicators. The detection rate was 15% while it was 3.9% in the previous period. A total of 1155 crimes have been found in the first half of 2015 in an absolute number of employees from the District Directorate, which is significantly higher than the previous ones. The level of registered pickpockets is also lower than in 2014. The total number is twice as low. I can tell, although this is a really positive trend, I don't think it's good enough. We need to keep working in that direction. These are my requirements for the management of the Ministry of Interior. Changes in the organization of work have been made to improve the activity. The number of employees in the specialized group for countering pickpocket thefts has been increased and the interaction with private security companies in large commercial sites has been improved. Joint and active work is being done with other state institutions. We are also working very well with the prosecution and the mayor of Varna to take the necessary measures. We are also following this process in the form in which you consider it best, there is no reason to deny information to both the MPs and, of course, the Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Binev, a little more details about the inspection itself, which was appointed. It covers the organization of work and the implementation of activities to counter criminal crime, road control and work in the operational units in Varna from 1 January to 1 June. This is a long enough period for us to have a common picture. I also confirm my good work with the district attorney's office in Varna and the local authorities. With regard to the findings, the Commission has given priority attention to the Third District Management in Verna, whose territory is situated in Grand Mall Varna and the registered infringements. The activity in countering domestic crime and special attention to pickpocketing has been checked. According to initial data, a number of significant deficiencies have been identified in the activities of the Head of the Department of the Crime Police (Criminal Police) at the Ministry of Interior (MI), the Head of the Third District Management, the Head of the Sector (Criminal Police) in the regional management and of employees in the sector serving the territory of the Ministry of Interior (Mal Varna). The inspection, as I told you, is in a final phase, and the preliminary information I have gives me reason to commit that we will take all the legal disciplinary measures against the established infringements and the employees who made them. If necessary, if this is established, the materials will be provided to the prosecution for acquittal and criminal liability. In relation to the data exported, the Director of the Regional Directorate has also appointed a commission to verify suspended pre-trial proceedings for thefts of pickpockets carried out during the period 1 January 2014 by 1 June 2015. The Commission has already checked 462 pre-trial proceedings, which also relate to the five districts and district management of Aksakovo, with around 80 of them being set aside for further verification in respect of the finding of non-compliances. I can declare again that in my person the management of the Ministry of Interior has zero tolerance for employees who commit illegal acts. At the same time, I have to say that there are hardly any other employees in countries that are so frequently inspected under such a strict regime of control. I'm really impressed. I can say that this is perhaps part of the strongest mechanism that prevents irregular actions and violations. However, as we can all be sure, with 50,000 employees, such cases are not excluded. But as for the policy of the Ministry, I have no tolerance or tolerance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Binev, Directorate of Homeland Security is dealing with the investigation of these violations. She is working on signals submitted by the prosecution, including anonymous signals under extremely strictly defined rules, listed in four regulations. She is also responsible for corruption checks among Ministry of Interior officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go, Mr. Yankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I ask you what you found, what you found, and you make a statement that you have found existing problems. My question is, "What have you done?"... because in your statement it seems that there is the will to take specific actions within a short period of time............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There's no specifics about the question I'm asking you. I'm gonna have to ask you at least in the back you're gonna take, specifically, to answer. It becomes known when we talk about the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Varna" that the current management is the former management of the First Regional Management in the Ministry of Interior. In the media, data on concrete actions or omissions began to be exported. Will there be a reaction from you in the past? Because this guide is the same and it turns out that in the old period there has been an inspection, there has been proposals for penalties, and at the same time you have appointed them as a guide to the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna. As of yesterday there is a clear and specific old arrest case in Varna, of a citizen from Varna, Mr. Lachezar Bratoev, who has a court procedure. Try to answer without avoiding the answer, your intentions for your future actions in particular proving empathy or inaction of this leadership of the Ministry of Interior in old times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u104	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Binev, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I actually had a complete answer, I think you answered my question. I therefore allow myself to make only one recommendation, as it is clear in the case of pickpockets that there are also police involved, simply cannot happen without their cooperation or without their non-interference. This particular fact should be borne in mind and I recommend to the Ministry of Interior to find a system to punish very strictly and seriously all police officers involved in corruption schemes because this is one of the major problems. In fact, organised crime and criminally committed intentions at the current level of communication is impossible without the assistance of the police. So I wish you could find the strength to deal with those who actually break the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u107	Dear Mr. Binev, thanks for the recommendation. I think that's exactly where our efforts are going. The findings are correct, and that is why our attention is particularly enhanced in this direction to prevent the possibility of the Ministry of Interior officials being part of the schemes that produce crime. Dear Mr. Yankov, I would not like to set out the conclusions of an incomplete inspection. That's why I don't tell stories here that can probably be read in a week. I think at the beginning of my answer I pointed it out correctly. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The report hasn't been analyzed. Here I have described some of the violations, but I will follow the rule and when the report is ready, then I will respond specifically. The violations are serious and if you have listened to me carefully, I told you that all relevant measures of proven violations will be implemented, including criminal liability. In your line you insert another additional theme for the current management of the Regional Directorate. The checks carried out in respect of previous events shall not give grounds for punishment or closure with an opinion requiring such penalties. This is the result of the checks I'm familiar with, done a little more than half a year ago. At the moment Mr. Pashov and the new leadership are doing extremely well, I showed you the results. Only in the case of infringements proven by the relevant internal organs would I take the necessary measures. I don't have a reason for that right now. [[Replication by MPs Krasimir Yankov.]] I'll do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take this opportunity, Mr. Tsochev, through you to get to the President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Tsacheva, to pay attention to those who answer the ministers, who are asked questions by MPs in the parliamentary control procedure, that the MPs, asking their questions, are waiting for specific answers and through these answers they aim to inform the Bulgarian citizens and voters who voted on this trust. Attention should be paid to the ministers in future, coming here for parliamentary control to answer questions and questions, to be specific in their answers; not to be able to use any primos in order not to give specific answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Since you had a question addressed to the President of the National Assembly, please come in, Mrs. Tsacheva, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u111	Mr. Iankov, you are incorrect in the manner of conduct. No one, either he or the President of the National Assembly, can exercise prior or subsequent control over the ministers' responses, nor censorship in relation to the answers they give to the questions of the National Representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u112	The procedure is not being followed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u113	The MPs have the right to ask, the ministers are obliged to answer. The fact that the Members of the National Assembly have expectations that are not contained in the Minister's replies, which base this response on the basis of the facts and circumstances relevant to the matter, does not mean that, in the event of misuse of the procedure in the Rules of Procedure, the Members of the National Assembly may, in the form of a procedure in the manner in which they conduct, comment on the response received by a Minister. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Haytov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u114	Dear Madam President, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since my election as a Member of the National Assembly from 6. A multi-mandated electoral district of Vratsa, in October last year with my behaviour and behaviour I have shown that I am proud of my constituents in my constituency. In recent days, however, some events have occurred that sadden me and offend me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u115	I understand that your entire group, not only you, Mr. Haytov, because you are using the procedure "Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group" and it is mostly correct to use the plural.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u116	Thank you, Madam President. My current statement is on the occasion of the frequent attacks on agricultural production and agricultural land in Vratsa region. In just one night in the land of the Oryahov village of Selanovtsi were sprayed with chemicals and destroyed 2,400 acres of corn and 1,300 acres of sunflower. Experts say the damage is worth about 800,000. lv. At the same time, another 90 acres of sunflower were destroyed in fields near the Beloslatin village of Galice. The suffering cooperative from the city of Kneja, which processes the array, will lose a lot of money and subsidies from Europe for the next two years. Days later another 300 acres of wheat, also in the land of the village of Galice, entered the register of unusables and were deliberately sprayed with chemicals. These facts cause irony, resentment, and culpability for these serious crimes and the destruction of the harvest that is taking place in this region. Dear colleagues, no religion justifies the invasion of crops, and no normal person would put his hand on what was produced with sweat on the forehead of the people. In my mind, this is tantamount to a terrorist act. A normal person and a Christian cannot commit such an attack. Therefore, I and the entire Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center insist on the law enforcement and judicial authorities to establish the perpetrators and the guarantors of these ineligible acts by any society and to punish the vandals with all the strictness of the law. We will wait another week to take all possible parliamentary ways to disclose the names of the instigators and perpetrators. If this time we hide them behind the mask of the so-called mystery secret, then our silence will be punished. Since the old days, when someone has been hitting on agricultural produce, the thugs have been taking it all the way across the village to make fun of them all and be humiliated. In the 21st century, such conduct is reproachable, but it is not blaming with a clear voice to name the names of the perpetrators and instigators. I'd like to hear these names from the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office. You're on the move, guys! And to the mayors of Oryahovo and Byala Slatina, I say that I and my colleagues from the entire parliamentary group are available to assist in overcoming the huge damage done to farmers in the region. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u117	Just didn't make it clear, since you know their names, why don't you announce them to the authorities so we don't waste a week of time? That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u118	I'm sorry, I can't give out the names of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u119	Yes, but you have to point them out to the relevant authorities. [[Reply of Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u120	Let this remain for an additional debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u121	Okay. There is a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev concerning the increasing number of illegally removed motor vehicles in the last three years. Here you go, Mr. Peichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, for several years now, a new trend has been imposed in the illegal withdrawal of cars, namely the theft of relatively cheap, 10-12-year-old cars, in order to be cut down and sold in parts in the ever-growing number of junkyards. Unfortunately, neither has the practice of stealing new and expensive cars to be exported through canals to the Middle East, Russia, Moldova, Kosovo and to a lesser extent to European Union countries. It is apparent from the statistics that the Ministry of Interior published that the amount of illegally withdrawn vehicles increased in the last three years if in 2012 they were 3082 pieces, then by the end of 2014 they reached 3721 pieces. At the same time, the statistics of the Ministry of Interior show that the number of uncovering these crimes over the same period decreased from 301 pieces, revealed in 2012, to 272 pieces, revealed in 2014. This means that 10 stolen cars were reported each day last year, and the police, on average, failed to find even one car a day, Or to sum up the year 2014 compared to 2012 the illegally taken vehicles increased by 21% and the thefts revealed decreased by 10%. Here I would add to the answer to my written question to you that with the trend that goes the illegal withdrawal of vehicles in 2015 by May including, most likely, 2015 will end with more than four thousand illegally taken vehicles. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: What resources of the Ministry of Interior are involved in the process of revealing the violations of vehicles, such as funds from the budget of the state authorities; number of personnel; are there also high officials who are responsible specifically for combating vehicle abuse? Have you planned improvements in the detection of these criminal offences by the measures you have taken, and in what amount as a percentage of the total number of violations against vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. Peichev. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u124	Dear Mr. Tsochev, dear Mr. Peychev! I'm sorry, but I could list the names of all those present in the Chamber, because if I use the summary address with so few people in the Chamber, it would be, how can I say, inaccurate. Mr. Pejchev, you are quoting correctly the statistics of the Ministry of Interior. We do have a problem with increasing the number of illegally taken motor vehicles. Our analysis compared to previous years shows that this is mainly due to one feature, and it is that more than 80% of these withdrawals are linked to the re-sale of spare parts of these cars. You have also noticed that it is about older models. Obviously, the shortage of these parts and the change in the fleet is also affecting this type of criminal activity. It turns out that this is a trend not only in Bulgaria, but it is an international trend. However, this does not take responsibility away from us to fight this type of crime. There are other factors that cause this trend. This is the rapid development of new technologies and their application in automotive. This allows for very easy access to the electronics of the car, its manipulation. In other words, thefts are becoming easier and harder to prevent by law enforcement. However, a significant problem is the lack of regulation in disassemble, storage and sale of auto parts of cars. This makes it easier for those who perform them. The lack of identification features of the aggregates and auto parts of the stolen cars also makes it difficult for the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The sale of second-hand auto parts by cars, which is the subject of an online trade crime, is also very difficult to trace and makes it almost impossible to control this type of activity by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. All of this is combined with a slowly changing legal and regulatory basis for the Ministry of Interior to work with and to be able to step on it. That is, legally and legally, we are not ready to change this situation in the criminogenic environment. The Ministry of Interior has taken the following measures to improve disclosure. Contacts with foreign private companies and partners of Interpol and Europol and other international police organisations specialising in identifying incriminating cars, parts and aggregates of them and accompanying non-real documents have been established. In this context, regular trainings are carried out by the police staff working to counter this type of crime and good international practices are being adopted. A working group shall be prepared to prepare a proposal for a change to the Criminal Code. This is the most essential measure, but the most difficult one at this time, because it requires more time for the preparation and implementation of this goal. With regard to the officials responsible for countering vehicle offences, I can say that the Ministry of Interior has structured its activities in specialized units. In the major regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior there are established specialized sectors or groups, and in the small directorates this activity is the power of individual workers from the criminal police. In general, the fight against this type of crime is also the task of the entire composition of the Ministry of Interior. We also consider the budget of the Ministry, which, as you know, is quite limited.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Peichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Bachvarova, I congratulate you on creating a working group to propose changes in legislation and thus facilitate the work of the Ministry of Interior and the prevention of such crimes. However, I would like to remind you that during the past management of GERB, when Tsvetan Tsvetanov was Minister of Interior and Prime Minister of the State was the same prime minister who is now, this type of crime has decreased and were 20% less than they are now. It is assumed that under equal conditions you should be able to achieve similar results. I join the previous MPs who asked you questions that a large part of the problem is rooted in corruption that exists in the Ministry of Interior and in every state body. In this case, however, it is painful when he is in the Ministry of Interior. I dare even suggest that you take practice because the withdrawal of motor vehicles is a disease mostly of the big cities, piloted in Sofia, the senior composition of the district governments to be subjected to a lie detector, whether it assists similar structures that deal with the withdrawal of vehicles and whether it does everything possible to prevent them. I think this will lead to a 20-30% reduction in the thefts per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Peichev. Mrs. Bachvarova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u128	Mr. Peichev, thank you for your offer. I can say that we are working in every possible direction to solve this problem. I think that the external, global factors that I mentioned have a much stronger impact on the situation than the experience we have compared to that of a few years ago. I'm taking this opportunity within my right to say something as Deputy Prime Minister. Maybe it's a violation. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the responsibility for parliamentary control is not only for the executive. Given that the ministers have an extremely busy programme and responsibilities, meeting an empty room in parliament is not the strongest motivation and predestining the attitude of the executive to its commitment to legislative. I would like to say to Mr. Haytov that the cases he pointed out are being handled, but the publicity during pre-trial proceedings is not determined by the Ministry of Interior, but by the one who is leading him by the Prosecutor's Office. Until it's over, there's no way to name names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We thank Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to two questions asked by the National Representative Kristian Ivanov Vigenin, who will be answered by Ms Meglena Kuneva - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues. Mr Vigenin's first question is on the coordination mechanism for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! According to a signed decision of the Council of Ministers after a very turbulent discussion, as I understand it, a coordination mechanism has been established to prepare the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, which includes four working groups: administrative capacity, infrastructure, logistics and security, communication strategy and cultural programme, financing and public procurement. They will work under your common coordination. In the meantime, it became clear that the creation of the working group for priority and programme of the Bulgarian Presidency was postponed. For the leadership of the working group there was a dispute between you and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, who insisted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs play a leading role in determining the priorities of the Presidency. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what is the reason for delaying the creation of a working group priorities and programme of the Bulgarian Presidency? How will this affect overall preparation? At what time do you expect these contradictions to be cleared if they are not yet? Secondly, what are your arguments for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be isolated from overall coordination and also from the leadership of the working group, which will form the priorities for the Presidency programme of the Council of the European Union? I would just like to remind you that, in principle, almost everywhere, the leading role, including the overall coordination of this process, is in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vigenin! The questions asked will enable me to present to the Members of the National Assembly and to you personally progress in the preparation of our upcoming Presidency in 2018. Indeed, with Decision No 425 of 10 June four thematic groups have been formed, which you have listed. The establishment of a thematic working group priorities and programme of the Presidency has not been postponed. After discussions and discussions, we have reached an understanding that, in relation to the implementation of the measures and tasks envisaged for this working group, there should be a different approach. By the way, I was offered to head this group. I have decided that it is better to change the approach and join the work on national priorities more colleagues. We have decided to allow for greater transparency and a wider debate on them. In this sense, we have commissioned the European Affairs Council to coordinate the work on the programme and the priorities of our future Presidency. In January, the Council of Ministers adopted an amendment and supplement to PMS No 85 of 2007, which you well know, for coordination on European Union issues, creating a national coordination mechanism. Within the framework of the existing European Union coordination mechanism. You know that in my role as Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, I am also appointed as national coordinator for Bulgaria's preparation for the Presidency of the European Union, and I stress that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been appointed as my deputy. These amendments create a specific format of the Council on European Affairs in the Presidency Chamber, this is art. Six years. This Chamber shall include, in addition to me and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as Chairman and Vice-President. I believe that the Deputy Prime Minister ratio is quite justified. In addition, other deputy prime ministers and ministers as members are included. This ensures the necessary political level and commitment of the entire administration. This is an optimal opportunity to discuss and outline the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency in the most adequate and comprehensive way. In this format, the ministers themselves will be able to propose questions and topics that they believe should be our national priorities, and these decisions cannot be taken on their own. I coordinate the national mechanism because there needs to be a structure to monitor the implementation of the measures and because my portfolio is fully linked to the European Union and its policies. We are actually following the Bulgarian experience, which was during the negotiations and which is currently continuing with coordination of the Bulgarian positions for the European Councils. No one is limited or isolated from the work of preparing the Presidency. Neither do I define or choose our national priorities. The Presidency, as I have stressed many times, is a common effort and commitment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is a very important point which I should outline with regard to the Presidency's programme. Firstly, when drawing up the programme, we should comply with the European Union's agenda. You know as well as I do that within the threesome, and we're still a long way from that moment. Now, in fact, the general program of the trio Holland, Slovakia and Malta is being developed, it is somewhere around 20 pages, and together with Britain and Estonia we will do the trio programme. I also want to tell you something important, in my opinion, because you refer to personal relations. I have worked for seven years at the Foreign Ministry and have extremely good relations with colleagues, and Minister Daniel Mitov continues to be a member of the party that I run. So any tensions on this occasion are completely excluded. Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Your line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u134	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your information. I just want to stress that I do not think that this is about personal relations, but rather interinstitutional relations. And it is understandable that in this structure, which was adopted, it is inevitable that a large part of the functions which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should theoretically carry out should pass a little less towards the deputy prime minister who is responsible for European affairs. The fact that the European Affairs Council will coordinate means that you will. Even though the Minister of Foreign Affairs is your deputy, obviously this function will be coordinated by you. I expect that Bulgaria's permanent representation in the European Union will pass under your direction very soon, because otherwise the work, from my point of view, becomes slightly ineffective, as the Minister is in charge of permanent representation, and in fact all European issues coordinate you. I don't want to intrigue at all. I'm just saying that this mechanism of interaction that was chosen, it seems to me that it will complicate the work rather than ease it. I would like from the point of view of what lies ahead for you and Bulgaria to say that there are several questions that it is good to think about from now on and to be ready for them. They're somehow out of our power. First of all, to note that the country with which we are in the so-called Troika of the Presidency will hold a referendum on or against its membership in the European Union in 2017. This is before the beginning of the work of our threesome. Secondly, Estonia is the other country with which we will work together, during the first government of Boyko Borisov, our embassy there was closed down. I would say it is good to think about it or to find it again, as I had planned, or to strengthen the capacity of our Embassy in Finland, which is now accredited in Estonia to improve coordination. Finally, if you would allow me, Mr President, to finish: if your government is to pass its full mandate, which I personally do not wish you, but anyway the hypothesis stands, Bulgaria will have to hold parliamentary elections right during the Presidency of the Council. We're not the first country that would happen, but knowing our capacity, that would make it extremely difficult for us. So if you think about coordination and work itself, let's also consider these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u135	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. On the occasion of the Presidency, I will again emphasise this is the model on which we have negotiated and which no one has changed since 2000, including at the time when you were in charge of the Foreign Ministry. There have never been any concussions on this occasion. As for permanent representation, of course we're in an excellent relationship. It is subject to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it does not prevent me from working with Ambassador Tsanchev in excellent sync. That's how it's gonna be. The two remarks you made are absolutely correct. It is fair to think and see where Britain stands. There's nothing we can do but watch it move one step at a time. For now, it seems as if they are rather supporting the country's stay in the European Union and the referendum will be positive, but it is events that change the course of history. You are right about the capacity for our embassy in Estonia and Finland, but we are in the mode of containment of the budget deficit and indeed our colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are having a very difficult time with the budget. I'm on their side, but we have to consider the possibility. For the elections, you have, in fact, preceded my decision to speak to the parliamentary groups, but autumn, and to propose a plan that is supported by all the political forces for the Presidency. So, although there will be elections, as it really was in Slovakia, and in other countries there has happened to be, absolutely without shaking, to be so stable that the elections do not affect the Presidency. I hope that we will achieve this together and I would very much like the Presidency to be the territory of agreement and of cooperation that we have a strong need for. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The second issue of the Parliamentary Representative Christian Vigenin is on expenditure for the implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union in 2018. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, no funds were planned in the 2015 budget for activities for the implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency in 2018. You announced that funds from the operational programmes will be used. Only the launch of the first trainings of civil servants to increase language skills has been announced so far, with the total training budget for this year being 200,000. BGN provided by the resource of the communication strategy. At least that's the public information we have access to. At the moment, however, there is no estimate of exactly how much the Presidency will cost, at least orientedly on feathers. In the public domain, the amount of 100 million was launched. EUR, which significantly exceeds the value of other presidencies of countries on the scale of Bulgaria. In this regard, I would like to ask you: when do you plan to draw up an estimate of the value of the Presidency with the allocation of funds by activity and years? What costs do you expect to be covered through the operational programmes and what part will the state budget be? And on what grounds was launched in the public domain this indicative value of 100 million. Euros? In this regard, and how will transparent planning be ensured, then spending the funds to prepare for the Presidency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u140	Mr. Vigenin, at this point we still don't have an estimated budget. This is a work that will be carried out by the working group Finance and public procurement under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance. As a deadline for preparation of a three-year budget forecast for 2016 - 2018 we have bet the autumn of this year. I would like to say in front of everyone, although with few Members of the House, that if we wait and set the budget only 2018, this will be a mistake. The country is actually already in preparation and we have a huge communication and preparatory work to do literally since the beginning of next year. 2018 is too late and the money will be thrown into the wind if the necessary costs are postponed until then. The work of the financial group depends largely on the analyses of the other working groups, especially the logistics and car group, the number of meetings, the need for additional transport, the type of urban building fund, must either repair and security, telephones, computers; but also the administration group for administrative capacity, courses, salaries, missions, internships in other countries; and that of the cultural programme. As is known, funds from the ESI Funds cannot be used directly in the preparation of the Presidency. The practice has established their use for capacity building purposes in the administration. The opportunities of the operational programs will be enjoyed as much as possible. I'm glad Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is here too. I'm sure I'll get some support on this. The preparation plan provides for the preparation of a specialized training programme based on the assessment of the needs of teams of the Presidency and the development of projects on good management for the financing, development and implementation of such a programme. The roadmap for the implementation of the State Administration Development Strategy by 2020 provides for the development of a Programme for training and training and internships with funding from OPSP worth 6 million. 200,000. lv. The deadline for the development of the programme is June 2016, the realization is in two years July 2016 - July 2018, the Institute of Public Administration and the Diplomatic Institute are responsible institutions. According to the other program, the focus will be to improve the infrastructure, the areas around the places where the events will take place in Bulgaria. The funds are bet in the 2016 annual budget programme for 2018. The annual budgets of the institutions responsible will comply with the rules of the budgetary procedure. I believe that the transparency of the process of planning and spending the funds is sufficiently ensured through its implementation under the budgetary procedure, you will all be watching it, for the relevant year and subject to the requirements of the Public Finance Act. As regards the media-led indicative value of 100 million This cannot be commented before we have the initial draft budget. I will present only a few figures: the current Luxembourg Presidency has planned around 93 million. Euros and if they don't lie to me, their 13th is memorable right now, considering their infrastructure. According to the plan, Latvia had estimated about 100 million. Euros. There's cheap, there's expensive chairmanships. I guarantee you that ours will be one of the cheap ones because they are pushing our options, but there are costs without which we cannot build a building fund, administrative capacity, security, communications, cars. Of course, there's revenue. I look forward to the Latvian Presidency report. They predicted tourism revenues, promotion of national products, investments of 64 million. Euros. Lithuania won 55 million. Euros. We will do things so that the benefits of staying the people who are trained and qualified to continue working in the Bulgarian administration, the buildings can be used for congress tourism, the purchased equipment to remain available to the Bulgarian state. It's a very serious organization. Going through such an experience will help us. Bulgaria will be in the centre of European news for six months. This is a big commercial for our country. You know that, as they say, you cannot make a second impression, and this will be the first impression Bulgaria will make. We continue to work on the specific requirements that there will be for the budget. When we're ready, I'll introduce them to you immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u142	Thank you for your information, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Of course, we, here in the National Assembly, will closely monitor budgetary and other issues related to the Presidency. If I may, a little detour, because you, as Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, have paid attention to the few MPs in the Chamber, yes, it may not really be pleasant, but in fact the questions we ask and the answers you give are not so much for the MPs themselves, but for the people who monitor the direct transmission, so I definitely feel that by asking this question and speaking, I speak first of all to them. To say that at least from the information I have, one Denmark, for example, manages to fit into 35 million. EUR for its Presidency. Greece, January 2014 at 50 million planned, managed to shrink to below 20 million. euros, so there are possibilities. Moreover, the Permanent Representation in Brussels has capacity, no additional measures are imposed, additional staff, equipment can be taken and so on. As for the impression, of course, it would be good to make a good first impression. I am afraid that Bulgaria's overall impression is not very positive, so a good reason is to show a new image and clean up some of the problematic topics that weigh on our country's image. I ask for one thing, however, that it is clear from now on that we should not demonstrate national complexes and engage in Grandomian plans, because we will only provoke condescending treatment and smiles. In this sense, I am puzzled by the fact that somewhere, if I am not mistaken, Prime Minister Borisov said that 50 armored cars should be bought, for example. These are from my point of view ridiculous things. I am well aware that as a minister I needed several armored vehicles to send to our ambassadors who work at very heavy points in the world and had no means to do so, and to throw such funds for a presidency, I find it absurd. Secondly, to concentrate more on content, on politics, on employee competence. At the same time, you are saying that you should appoint perhaps 500 new employees. That's a huge number. Will you guarantee that the appointments will not be for party activists and their relatives? I think this is a key issue from our point of view, and I would say that this is a good occasion for the Presidency, planning the costs, including at least some cosmetic repairs to some of our embassies around the world, because they will have a coordinating role and it is good when we make a good impression to try to do it not only here but also in our diplomatic missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u144	Mr. Vigenin, of course, this wish for our embassies is fair. I will say again, I support Minister Mitov in his attempt to increase the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but with regard to our Presidency it is the first, we really do not have an infrastructure built. However, to point out that Greece, at a very difficult time, succeeded to the minimum to which they were able to shrink the Presidency, was 50 million. Euros, so with 20, there's just no way. Denmark has publicly announced 35 million, but there are costs that they have not announced because they do not consider them to be inherent in the Presidency. Either way, the important thing is what we want and how we bet our budget. These are absolutely indicative means, which the presidencies have done as long as we know the upper and lower limit in what directions they are moving. Otherwise, we'll decide what, to what extent to show the country. I agree with you that to show people who can do their job, know what will remain of the Presidency. Of course, I am sure that there will be a tempting colleague of ours, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, to show the country, to make informal advice outside Sofia as well. We'll discuss it with you. I'll keep you posted anytime. You don't even have to ask questions. You are welcome to comment on every step of the Presidency's preparation. I'd really like to conclude with the fact that I think it's a team effort. Your interest is welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u145	I thank Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues for her participation in parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question by the National Representative Ivan Penkov Ivanov on a common policy and opportunities for special targeted support for the Northwestern region through integrated territorial investment, which Mr. Tomislav Donchev will respond to. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Madame Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is related to the common policy and special support opportunities for the Northwestern region through integrated territorial investment. At the end of last year it became clear that the entire Northwestern region, which is the poorest region not only in Bulgaria but also throughout the European Union, is excluded from the possibility of applying special targeted support. It is about integrated territorial investments which were initially enshrined in the Partnership Agreement until 2020, but then dropped out in its final version. I would like to stress that the Northwestern region, as I said, is economically the least populated region in the country, and in its territory are practically the most deserted cities in Bulgaria. The state of the technical infrastructure serving business and population has also deteriorated. The region is characterised by low economic investment activity and a lack of investor interest. Investments are the impulse that can revive the economy in the Northwestern region by creating new opportunities to boost entrepreneurship and increase employment. Unfortunately, at the moment there is no clarity on how this region will be supported. Only in the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" is provided for greater support for companies from the Northwestern region by providing additional points at the stage of evaluation of project proposals, but this does not solve much of the problems of the region and this support is insufficient. My specific question to you is: is there at present any clarity on how the Northwestern region will be supported after its exclusion from the targeted support framework through integrated territorial investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! I'll start with one clarification. The so-called ITI, or integrated territorial investment, an opportunity envisaged in the new general regulation does not imply additional financial support. It doesn't mean more money, it's another way of organizing investment. An integrated territorial investment we could only have if there were two conditions. One is an extremely specific and mature plan document what should be done in the territory concerned, and secondly, a strong local, regional body to implement a similar plan or strategy. Unfortunately, in this case in Northwestern Bulgaria we do not have either. We have a lot of strategies that are full of nice words, and we have an infinitely long list that is the problem, an infinitely long list of projects, without the ability to say who is more important than others. That is why the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is preparing a targeted investment programme to support the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, but not only for this region, also the Rhodopes, Strandzha, border and mountain areas. Yes, they need an additional investment resource. Yeah, they need a focused, smart state policy. The development of the program is done with the internal resources of the Ministry itself, but experts from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from other units are attracted, relying on full cooperation from the local authorities in terms of prioritization and submission of a list of key projects according to them. The programme includes three geographically separated areas covering nearly 34,2% of the country's territory. It will be financed by both European funds and state budget funds. Together with you, we are about to answer the question of what part of the funds will be provided by the state budget when the discussions on the 2016 budget begin. What is certain is not relying solely on the resources in the operational programmes, however good it may be. This is where I want to mark. First of all, the Operational Programme "Regions in growth". The integrated development mechanism for urban areas is described in paragraph 1. 4.2 of the program. Within the Northwestern region are identified two urban centers of regional importance, of the hierarchic level two, these are Vidin and Pleven, and four cities of the hierarchic level three, which will be able to use the proposed support under Priority Axis 1. The preliminary calculations show that only on this axis for targeted financing of cities they can rely on a resource of not less than 150 million. BGN, with additional opportunities on the so-called sectoral priority axis, these are road infrastructure, tourism, social, health infrastructure, where I am convinced that the available resource will be used in the best way. You have already mentioned that in the Operational Programme Innovations and Competitiveness, the approach to further sharpening projects that are from the Northwestern region has been introduced, and I hope this will lead to better use of this 2.7 " 2.8 billion resource available under the Programme. But I'd like to add. When we comment on the Rural Development Programme, there is also a priority banning for projects from Northwestern Bulgaria on the following sub-measures of the Programme: 4.1; 4.2; 6.2; 6.4; 7.2 and 7.5. For the North-Western region during the already running programming period in the sector, the project "Modernization of the Vidin railway line" is expected to be implemented, planned for financing under the so-called Connected Europe mechanism and "Kunecting Europe Fasiliti" and the newly built route will be at a design speed of 160 kilometers per hour. The tender procedures for construction are planned for October 2016 and I hope in 2017 the physical implementation itself, the construction will also be a fact and the site will be completed in 2020. The track length is over 64 kilometers, the indicative value of the project is 792 million. lv. At the moment, we can boast of a contract for design. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In addition, according to the Operational Programme "Transport" as far as resources allow, it is envisaged the construction of the Motorway "Hemus" which also has a relation to "although not as directly as Corridor No 4, for the development of the Northwestern region. Of course, the resources of the Operational Programs will also be relied on. With the awareness that I am abusing the time needed, the purpose of all these investments cannot shift the private. As you well said, this should be the impetus based on public funding to attract sufficient private investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u149	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Donchev, thank you for the correct answer. I'm definitely satisfied with the positive things you said. I sincerely hope that with your team of professionals we know, all the necessary action will be taken to make this happen faster in time, because the Northwest region, again, is the least developed in the country and the need for professional and in-depth support there is now the most now than ever. In a nutshell, if there is an opportunity for you to answer: the strategy that is being prepared with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, what deadlines is it expected to be finalized? Is there a need for local authorities to cooperate, to assist different civil groups in the Northwestern region, purely expert, so that their opinion can be heard and a quality instrument can be drawn up that can lead to good, desirable results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Donchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u152	Dear Mr. Ivanov, I would like to note that we are not talking about another strategy. We have a lot of strategies, even more than we need. We are talking about a targeted investment programme answering the big question: in what order, with what priority should all projects be implemented and financed, in this case from Northwestern Bulgaria? Without being able to commit to a specific deadline, as far as I am not operationally involved in developing the investment programme, I think we will be able to present to everyone, including why not the National Assembly, a first version of the document from the autumn of this year. Well, considering autumn, I don't mean late fall. In fact, the task ahead of us is not just about providing funding. A moment ago, you and I were commenting on a essentially billion-dollar resource. The heavy task, as one former and current commissioner said, is what to mix policies to reverse the trend. Because if someone generates an illusion that economic and social processes could only be reversed based on infrastructure, it's a mistake. Gross domestic product per capita of Vidin is six times lower than that of Sofia. Even if we build Corridor 4 with a highway gauge from Vidin to Sofia, even if we have a railway highway, it will not automatically and immediately reverse this trend. We need investment in both education and human capital, targeted investment in agriculture, targeted support to support small and medium-sized enterprises. As a strategic remark, one of the major problematic challenges we have is the lower capacity of all local administrations. It cannot be solved with a magic wand, but one of the reasons from a few weeks ago to launch my intention to make changes to the regulatory base that would allow either rotation or migration of civil servants, including from the capital to the interior of the country, is this need, specifically for Northwestern Bulgaria. And when I am ready with concrete proposals, I will rely on your support. There is no other way to do this, including without targeted investment and support for administrations that need to develop projects and turn money into goods. These are the tough challenges that stand before us. It's not the usual repertoire. He's got resources. The question is to spend it in a way that will have a long-term effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u153	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Ivanov, please express your attitude. You're giving up. Thanks to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Seven questions will be answered by Mrs. Petkova, Minister of Energy. The first question is from the National Representative Slavi Penchev Binev concerning Concession No 147 of 26 March 1999 for granting concession for underground natural riches, gold and honey ores through extraction from the locality. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In 2014 a representative of "Dundee Precious Metals - Chelopech " EAD spoke about preparation for the technical liquidation of the mining site "Chelopech" although the contract expires in 2029. This could talk about a selective extraction of higher gold-based ore, leading to the risk of depletion of stocks. The danger of leaving metal in the bowels is real. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). "Dundee Precious Metals - Chelopech" EAD achieves a record performance of the indicators of mining of metal gold and copper. The seizure of stocks with a gold content of more than 3 g per tonne leads to electoral exploitation, which according to art. 4 t. 6.1. from the concession contract may result in the loss of natural wealth or economic disadvantage for the future development of the property. Do you have such information and what measures will you take if this is true? Would you please confirm that "Dundee Precious Metals - Chelopech " EAD is developing the locality of Chelopech and does not allow electoral exploitation?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Binev! Under the Decision of the Council of Ministers No 147 of March 1999, a concession for mining of underground wealth was granted to Chelopech in Sofia region. At present, the site is being developed according to a comprehensive operational project agreed in November 2009 on the basis of which the annual work projects are also being developed. These include jobs, work schedules and expected technical and economic indicators to be achieved, as well as planned events related to conservation and reconstruction of mining sites. The environmental protection section of the annual projects shall examine the activities implemented in the previous year for the protection and restoration of the environment and of the affected lands, and shall carry out technical and biological regeneration and present a project for the activities of the following year. The annual work project for 2014 is agreed by the Ministry of Economy and Energy, after consideration by the Tech-Economic Council. It reflects the jobs specific to the year in question, the estimated yield by quantity and the metallic content of the ore. By letter dated January of this year, the Ministry provided a geological report on the actual production in 2014. From the analysis of the expected results for the past year and the actual figures, it appears that the extraction of ore was more than expected by 2,67%. The gold content is increased by 0,2% and the copper content is reduced by 0,016%. In the development of the site, a stone system for the development of the seized space is applied, which in practice does not allow for selective extraction. In addition, it should be noted that forecasts from geological studies have been used in the preparation of annual projects and there may be deviations from those actually measured in the production. Since the Ministry of Energy has no other means, except through specific on-the-spot checks, to verify how the concession contract is implemented, I would like to inform you that the last such verification carried out at the site in Chelopech is from 17 April 2015. The results of this check show that there are no violations of the concession contract. Very soon, together with the General Labour Inspectorate, we are about to carry out another inspection, which I am ready to inform and report to you when you have asked a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u157	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u158	The fact that no evidence has been found that some of the commitments are not respected there does not in any case prove that there are no problems. There's a lot of problems there. I personally sent people to the European Parliament at the time when I represented Bulgaria. Unfortunately, these photos could not come out to the public, but knowing how environmental requirements are met, it is perfectly normal to assume that these doubts, which I have expressed in my address to you, are extremely very likely to be true. I strongly recommend that you do an in-depth check. Maybe you should send your employees who can't come into contact in any way, because maybe a system has been created to prove that everything is okay. That's my personal opinion. That is my information, which unfortunately I cannot prove that there are many violations and there is much to be done there on all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u159	Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! I fully agree with you only through checks within the legal powers of the institutions concerned, any violations may be detected. As I had the opportunity to mention earlier, I will undertake the commitment to such an examination will be carried out and I will report on the results of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u161	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Filip Stefanov Popov concerning Here you are, Mr. Popov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! My question to you is what is the percentage of the production of electricity in Bulgaria from factory plants, such as Vidahim? What are the losses of NEK in Bulgarian leva for 2014 separately........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At what price NEK buys electricity from
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u163	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, in the past 2014 the National Electricity Company (NEK) as a public supplier and according to the requirements of art. 162, para. 1 of the Energy Act buys all electricity from cogeneration of heat and electricity, registered with a certificate of origin and quantities of electricity. These certificates are issued by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC), respectively, now the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC), which are required to ensure the operational reliability of the main facilities produced above the amount of electricity produced from cogeneration. In particular, from the thermal power plants in the Combina The prices at which NEK purchased the electricity from the above-mentioned call generation operators, installed respectively the installations and the prices are preferential and are determined in accordance with the decisions of the SEWRC. In 2014, NEK purchased a total amount of electricity of 21 million. Ninety-seven thousand. 516 megawatt hours, of which 1 million. 317 thousand. 649 megawatt hours or 6.25% of factory plants. In 2014 the National Electricity Company purchased electricity for 37 million. 629 thousand. lv. at a price of BGN 140,21 at a megawatt hour. NEK's total revenue from the sale of electricity produced by Visahim is 27 million. Ninety thousand. BGN, or the difference between the costs that the National Electric Company has incurred in order to purchase this energy, and respectively the revenues it has realised from the sale of the electrical energy, I only open a clamp and say that this price at which NEK sells the purchased electricity, for 2014 the average sales price is BGN 100,94. at a megawatt hour. In practice, the National Electricity Company has incurred a loss or the result of this purchase and sale is negative and is worth 10 million. 539 thousand. lv. With regard to the "Topplofication" "Sofia," for 2014 NEK has purchased from the "Toplofication" "Sofia," electricity for 195 million. 690 thousand. lv. at a price reported for buy-in BGN 235,89 at a megawatt hour. The total revenue for NEK from the sale of electricity produced by 557 thousand. BGN, or the difference between the realised sales revenue and the reported costs for the purchase of this electricity is negative and is equal to 115 million. 133,000. lv. With regard to the question you have asked regarding the purchased energy from AES, it should be noted, as we all know, that the company produces electricity on the basis of a long-term purchase contract between the National Electricity Company and the AES. The amounts of electricity for 2014 determined by the decisions of the SEWRC at the time were 2 million. 413 thousand. 862 megawatt hours, at a re-established price of SEWRC for buy-in 90.35 BGN. at a megawatt hour. The estimated amount of electricity is 2 million. 378 thousand. BGN 514, with an average purchase price of BGN 207,37 or as a result of the costs which NEK has incurred for the acquisition of this energy and the revenues that have been realised, respectively the cost is BGN 493 million for the acquisition of this energy and revenues, respectively 240 million 87 thousand. A negative difference of 253 million has been reported. 155,000. lv. That's a brief piece of information. The difference is that the SEWRC's decision envisions costs for the purchase of electricity 218 million in actual 493. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u165	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You're running out of time. You will have an opportunity in the back if you wish to add more information. Mr. Popov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, BGN 140. for Vidachim, BGN 235 TPP Sofia, BGN 207 This is the price you have just shared for the purchase of electricity. The losses: by............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I also have a supplementary question: does the energy available from NEK enter these prices? Something else. What is happening in Vidahim is the biggest abbreviation of workers in the last 15 years, dear Minister. Once the ODS started killing Vidahim, this government put the cross on him. However, this will also be the final blow not only against Visahim and against the poorest end, because there will be more than 300 workers with over 400 families and hungry children. I remember when Vidahim was working, there were no starving children's eyes, Madam Minister. Now they're there, and there's a lot of them. But this will also be a finishing blow to an industrial production because "Vidahim" is the last enterprise that produces Bulgarian tires, and there are hired Bulgarian specialists who are related to this topic. This is unacceptable, Madam Minister, because it is evident from these data that you have exported that is not the problem of Bulgarian energy. My question is: because it had to be started by Vidahim? It is obvious that from the other plants the losses for NEK, for the state are many times, dozens of times more. It is obvious that this government seemed to have an attitude towards the Northwest because it started with the cancellation of the road, which was Sofia "Vidin," is 79 under the Operational Programme "Transport", for the second time the customs from Vidin moved out, the project "Salaj" was terminated and now it has reached for this main employer in this poorest end. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In me and in Vidin there remains the bitter feeling that this government has directed all the forces and means to put an end to any industry in the poorest end not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe. I hope you will disprove this feeling of me and all Vidin and with concrete actions and measures this government will prove that both Vidin and Vidin are part of Bulgaria and should take their place in Bulgaria. From what you've read, both the government's actions and the Ministry's actions that you represent, the feeling is absolutely the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, the problem with the Northwest is not from yesterday and you know very well. It is a problem for all of us, no matter what government rules, the problem stands. So the government has something to do with the Northwest, and it's to make an effort to really revive this region in some way. Believe me, we're doing everything we can. As for the opinion expressed by you that it is not the problem of Bulgarian energy, I fully agree with you. But, as you know, in March 2015, with the efforts of all of you and the government, there was a change in the Energy Act, according to which...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u169	Without us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u170	Without you? Okay. ... a restriction on the purchase of electricity from thermal power plants and so-called plant plants which do not produce in a highly efficient and combined manner is introduced. That is, only this production is purchased, which is highly efficient and combined. "Vidahim" definitely, unfortunately, does not belong to this group of enterprises. If you open the annual financial statement of Visahim, you will see that 90% of the revenues of Visahim are from the sale of electricity. So Vidahim did not, unfortunately, produce tires, as we all do, I also remember very well the time when Vidahim produced tires and was one of the best companies. However, there is no way that, when this undertaking does not meet the legal requirements, its electricity will continue to be bought out. In the absence of any other comments, the Commission concluded that the measures in question were compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. What I can say is that no one has anything against Visahim. On the contrary, we want this enterprise to be revived and to start working, but there is no way for the National Electricity Company to buy energy that is legally not allowed to buy out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning the construction of the nuclear power plant. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the existing two units in the NPP "Kozloduy" have been authorised to operate by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency until 2017 and until 2021 respectively. The necessary measures are currently being taken to extend their work. New nuclear power plants are needed to operate in parallel with the V and VI block of the NPP until their closure. For this period, the investment made in new nuclear power can be repaid and then continue to produce cheap electricity, as the electricity costs produced by the nuclear power plant are lowest compared to all other productions. This justifies the construction of the VII block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and of a new plant at the site "Belene." What is the government planning to build a new nuclear power plant, and what are your specific actions for the continuation of the nuclear power plant project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u173	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, in the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018 are clearly described the priorities and guidelines for the development of nuclear energy. With regard to the large energy projects in the government programme, their revision and implementation is at stake only in case of proven economic efficiency. As has been repeatedly stated, one of our main tasks is the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant in Kozloduy, with the extension of the duration of the operation procedure in due time and there is no delay at this time. Regarding the NPP project, I would recall that Decision No 250 of 29 March 2012 of the Council of Ministers repealed the 2005 decisions on the designation of the site as such of national importance for the construction of a nuclear power plant on the site of Belene. On 27 January 2013, a national referendum was held in which 1 million votes. 405 thousand. 463 Bulgarian citizens representing 20.22 per cent of the citizens with electoral rights. There is a hypothesis of art. 23, para. 3 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, namely the proposal subject to the referendum is submitted to the National Assembly for a decision. By decision of 27 February 2013 on the national referendum, the National Assembly supported the government's decision to suspend the construction project of a new nuclear power plant at Belene's site and insisted on its final termination. The Ministry of Energy, respectively the National Electric Company, strictly implement the current decisions of the Council of Ministers and of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to terminate the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of the NPP. In this regard, I would like to open a clamp and say, as we all know, that a heavy arbitration is currently underway in relation to this project. I think that it is good for us as Bulgarians not to take any attitude and not to express any positions in relation to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u175	Thank you. Mr. Yankov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you, including, as provided, is in the longer term. You have used the opportunity to answer specifically for the period 2014 - 2018, and in my question I am asking you about appropriateness and economic logic and when we get to the period when, even the extended work of the V and VI block of the NPP Does Bulgaria cease to be a country with a nuclear power plant?! Yes, I understand you, you do not expect to rule forever, but whether you are to be in office for six months, one year or until the regulation for another three years, there must be concrete action on your part to be continued by those who will replace you. In fact, you just told us that nothing is being done to have nuclear energy in Bulgaria. You are entering for previous statements to say nothing about the NPP site while there is arbitrage. We as MPs and Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian people, know that when two parties, two persons are in a judicial dispute, they can reach an agreement and end the litigation, even if it is an arbitration. What? We are waiting for someone else to rule on a dispute that has the national electricity company, which is state-owned, and the Russian company that has a contract? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And my question is about the future of nuclear power and specifically about the site of nuclear power plant "Belene", because there are also spent funds............................................................................................................................................................ He's an idea we saw that ended a few months ago. I expected to hear from you that you have concrete views and actions for the future of nuclear energy, and not to limit yourself only in the period until 2018 what is profitable for you to tell Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u177	Thank you, too. For the coat, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yankov, I fully agree with you on the subject of eternal governance. Thank God, these are some times that are back in history and I hope they never come back. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] However, in relation to what you are trying to transfer as the responsibility of the current government in relation to the NPP, I will only allow myself to remind you, as I remember that one of the priorities of Prime Minister Oresharski's government was precisely the construction and revival of the project... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] No, this was the construction of the NPP project. I don't recall any concrete action being taken. Our programme clearly outlines the priorities in the sector...................................................................................... There the renewal of the project nuclear power plant Belene definitely does not appear. Our main priority is the extension of the life of the V and VI block of the NPP, of course, the development of new capacities, but only in case of an economically proven effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u179	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on a public procurement by the Bulgarian authorities for the purchase of 160 mobile devices. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Petkova, the question may seem insignificant to you compared to the previous issue in relation to NPP "Belene" of colleague Iankov, but it is actually quite indicative of the way in which public procurement is made by state enterprises, in this case "Bulgartransgaz". Information agency BGNES published a few months ago information about a public contract announced by Bulgartransgaz "EAD" for purchase of 160 mobile sets for a total value of around 67 200 BGN. with value added tax. The perplexing thing is that almost half of the amount is intended to buy only 19 apparatus with quite specific data, such as an internal memory....not less than 32 gigabytes; built-in camera....not less than 16 megapixels; operating system....Android 5.0; processor.. not less than 8 nuclear; memory................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These requirements meet only one single mobile phone on the market and this is Samsung S6 Edge with a price per unit of about BGN 1500. The other half of the funds are allocated to the other 141 mobile devices with much more modest requirements. More information is needed about what a natural gas transport and storage company needs 19 mobile devices with 16 megapixels built-in camera for example and 32 gigabytes of memory. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the impression must be given that the order is made to provide the management of the company with modern phones of the highest class and with requirements excluding all but one specific model. Setting requirements to such details eliminates competition between mobile phone models, for the benefit of a specific model, and is obviously a pro-corruption action. Another disturbing fact is that the public procurement was downloaded from the website of Bulgartransgaz and the Public Procurement Agency only a few hours after the publication of the news by the BGNES Agency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One of your first actions as Minister was at the end of last year and the beginning of this year to change the managements of all energy companies, including the "Bulgartransgaz." Now we see that one of the first actions of the new leadership is not how to ensure secure access to energy at the lowest possible prices, but how to satisfy their whims for expensive phones. Please answer the following questions: What is the reason for the declared high requirements for 19 mobile phones for Bulgartransgaz? Do you believe that the criteria set out to meet a single smartphone model are an artificial setup of the order with a well-known winner? What is the reason for downloading the contract from the sites? Who are the officials who have prepared this set-up public procurement and what responsibility will be incurred by them? How do you assess the work of the new managements of the energy companies with a view to ensuring fiscal discipline of companies to overcome the deficits in the Bulgarian energy sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u181	Thank you. Please observe the time provided for in the Rules. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kadiev! In 2014 in preparation of the investment programme for 2015 from the previous management of the "Bulgartransgaz" is provided for the purchase of 160 pcs. new devices. The high-end mobile devices provided are intended for use by the relevant staff of specialists who have VPN-access to monitor through an information system for the collection, archive and visualization of technological information and other IT applications. In order to increase the security and efficiency of the work, it is necessary to use mobile devices with technical parameters to allow at any time and at each point the manager or employee concerned to have access to the monitoring and management systems of the national transmission network and the transmission network for transit. The public invitation and the documentation of the public procurement awarded under Chapter 8a of the Public Procurement Act is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Law. The technical specifications are developed in such a way as to enable equal access for applicants to participate in the procedure and do not create unjustified obstacles to competition, as does the provision of art. 32 of the Public Procurement Act. It is evidence that three companies submitted offers within the time limit set out in the public call, namely by 17:00 on 21 May 2015. The opening of the tenders and the announcement of the price proposals of the participants was made publicly at 10:00 p.m. on 22 May 2015 in the Central Management of the "Bulgartransgaz" by a committee appointed by order of the executive director of the company. At present, the committee has completed its work on the examination of tenders, including technical proposals to the same. Protocols shall be made according to art. 101, para. 4 of the Public Procurement Act, which was endorsed by the contracting authority on 17 June 2015, then on the same day, on 18 June 2015, was sent to the participants and published on the buyer profile of the company under the conditions of, of course, art. 22b, para. 3 of the Public Procurement Act. Under the established protocol, the contracting authority does not award the contract because the technical proposals of the three participants do not meet the requirements of the contracting entity. The public procurement was not withdrawn from the website of Bulgartransgaz and the Public Procurement Agency. This circumstance can be verified and proven. For its authentication, I am ready to provide you with a printout from the Public Procurement Agency and from the website of Bulgartransgaz. As regards who has drawn up the procurement documents, it shall be prepared by the experts of the company dealing with the preparation and conduct of public procurement. This is a team of specialists who have the necessary competence and qualifications. With regard to whether there is a basis for seeking responsibility from specific persons, we should say here the following. In the event that there are infringements or alerts for infringements are submitted not only in relation to this, but for each public contract there are competent state authorities to identify and if there are such infringements, the relevant administrative criminal liability will be sought accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u183	Thank you. Mr. Kadyev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u184	Dear Mrs. Petkova, when I was in the Ministry of Finance, the National Revenue Agency had made such a public procurement, only for cars in which everything was at stake up to a millimeter and which corresponded to a single car. The same thing happened last year with the State Agency for National Security In this case, it is a contract for mobile phones, which meets a single model. The fact that three companies have appeared does not matter because they have all offered the same, maybe by 1 or 2 BGN lower price. It doesn't matter. The fact that the professionals of the "Bulgartransgaz" have prepared technical specifications, which meet a single model, I say again, for me is a clear proof of the setup of the contract. You can't convince me that all over the world from all the competition on mobile phones only Samsung E6 is responding to this thing. I can tell you a whole series of other phones that match that. So there's the key, not how many companies there are, not whether it's downloaded. Okay, I made a mistake, it wasn't downloaded from the website of Bulgartransgaz. The key is why these 19 phones and this order is only made so that it corresponds to a particular mobile manufacturer, which, in my opinion, is a purely pro-corruption action. These are the measures you should be taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u185	Thank you. Minister Petkova for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kadiev, I fully agree and share your view that if there are violations, they should be identified accordingly and held accountable for them. But as it became clear from the answer, this public procurement was not awarded anyway. Because none of the proposals of these three companies that have appeared meet the technical requirements and technical specification that has been determined for this contract. If there are any doubts about infringements, the competent authorities may be informed without delay and if they are guilty, they may bear responsibility accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u187	Thank you. There is a question from the National Representative Kancho Filipov concerning unpaid concession payments of mini Maritsa East to the budget of Radnevo municipality. Mr. Filipov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Petkova! The financial situation of Radnevo Municipality for 2015 is particularly worrying. The outstanding concession payments of Mini Maritsa East to Radnevo Municipality's budget are outlined as the main reason. For the past 2013 and 2014, the municipality has clarity as to how the planned revenue from concessions based on letters from the Ministry of Economy and Energy is not fulfilled. For 2013, in the case of planned revenue of 3,5 million. BGN was transferred to the municipality's account a total of 1 million. Nine thousand. BGN 525. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in 490 thousand. BGN 474. For 2014, the cash received in Radno Municipality from concession payments is 1 million. 393 thousand. 467 leva. or remain due 4 million. 352 thousand. BGN 839, including those due for 2013. For 2015 there is no clarity as to the amount of deductions from concession payments to the budget of Radnevo municipality. In view of the production forecast of the Mini Maritsa East, we believe that the concession payments to Radnevo Municipality for this year should not be less than 3.5 million BGN. Revenue is planned for Radnevo Municipality in 2015 amounting to 7 million. 853 thousand BGN from concession payments. The same includes a concession of past years, as I quoted them in 2015 at an estimated amount of 3.5 million BGN. It is clear that in the case of a general budget of the municipality of 19 million. Three hundred and thirty-seven thousand BGN. There is no way to reflect the lack of these funds. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is what all of her activities in the municipality suffer from. Dear Mrs. Petkova, my questions to you are: When will there be clarity on the amount of deductions from concession payments to the budget of Radnevo Municipality for 2015? At what time and in what way will the obligations of the Mini Maritsa East be fulfilled from concession payments for 2013, 2014 and 2015 to the budget of Radnevo Municipality?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u189	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. Minister Petkova, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Filipov! In accordance with art. 61, para. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures, in force from 1 January 2011, 50% of the concession fee revenue from the large concession fees over 500 thousand. Cube. m, and 100% of the fees from small concessions are allocated to municipal budgets. In this respect, from 25 March 2011 to 9 June 2015 the budget of Radnevo Municipality has been transferred to the budget of 9 million. 706 thousand. BGN 418. For 2013, the concession fees due from the Mini Maritsa East are at the rate of 15 million. 454 thousand. BGN 565 of which the company paid a partial contribution of 3 million. 559 thousand. £250. In accordance with art. 61, para. 3 of this amount to the municipalities in whose territory the concession area is located has been translated 1 million. 483 thousand. 20 leva. That includes 771 thousand. BGN 172. are allocated to the budget of Radnevo Municipality. For 2013, the remaining outstanding concession fees to Radnevo municipality amounted to 2 million. 577 thousand. BGN 318. For 2014, the outstanding concession fees to Radnevo Municipality amounted to 3 million. Seven hundred and BGN 985. In total, the currently due allowances for Radnevo Municipality from concession payments due from the Mini Maritsa East to the second half of 2014 including 6 million. Two hundred and £303. The maturity of the commitment for the first half of 2015 will occur on 31 July of this year and will, according to estimates, amount to 1 million. 890 thousand. lv. The concession payment for the second half of 2015 was due in 2016 as the maturity for payment of this obligation occurred on 31 January 2016. The transfer of the sums to Radnevo Municipality's account, as you know, depends entirely on the payment of the concession payments by the Ministry of Energy of Maritsa East to the Ministry of Energy respectively. The company has repeatedly informed about its difficult financial situation, which is the main reason for its inability to repay its debts. The Ministry has repeatedly sent detailed information with the corresponding amounts due for the six-month periods for which no concession payments have been made and for the translations made in the translation documents referred to as amounts and dates of execution. I assure you that, as soon as every payment is made by the minister of energy, the Ministry of Energy is absolutely correct and within the framework of the law, by strictly respecting its obligations, transfers the concession fees not only to the municipality of Radnevo, but also to all municipalities in whose territory the area is situated. At the moment when such payments are made by the concessionaire on the budget of the Ministry, we immediately transfer them to the municipalities. The problem here, however, is related to the difficult financial situation of the Mini Maritsa East, which does not allow them to pay regularly with the municipalities in whose territory the concession is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u191	Thank you. Mr. Filipov, a line? You're giving up. The following is a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning problems of the people in villages affected by Mini Maritsa East. In particular, the villages of Troyanovo and Beli bryag. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u192	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, I will save the history, I will only mention that the PMS of 1980 for development of coal mining and solving some problems in the then Economic Mining and Energy Complex of Maritsa East and seven villages have been declared exodus. Some of them have already been displaced and can safely be said to have disappeared from the map of Bulgaria. The villages are: Targovishte, Ovchartsi, Big and Small clover and Seechevo all villages in the heart of Thrace. Another Decision of the Council of Ministers of 2005 granted a concession for coal mining for 35 years to the Mini Maritsa East. At a meeting of the residents of the villages of Troyanovo and Beli bryag with representatives of the state and mines, it is explained once that they will be removed in 2018, then. The long-term cohabitation of these people with mines has made their lives difficult: dust, noise from machines, sleepless nights and so on. At the same time, the Mini Maritsa East is starting to voluntarily buy private property in these villages. A trading company with 100% state participation buys private properties, demolishes them and practically destroys the villages. People remain with a sense of injustice toward them. Owners whose properties are not bought are seen in a miracle left to live in a semi-damaged village, meters from an active mine. I don't mention it for 500 meters. It's not respected. The consequences are continuous dust and noise from coal mining. They are conducting correspondence with institutions and agencies to make noise throwing, but so far there is no result in a voice in the desert. There are no environmental assessments and people no longer trust the Bulgarian institutions. They have submitted a petition to the European Parliament. It turns out that everyone should be saved on their own. Resistance from the inhabitants of the two villages is virtually lacking. The conflict or the dispute, if we have to call it in any way, is now the demand for a fair assessment of their dwellings, but this is not happening either. This assessment largely prejudges whether people will be able to move or settle elsewhere. My questions, Madam Minister, are many, but I will limit myself only to the following. Are you familiar with the situation and the problems of the people of the affected by the mini Maritsa East-AD settlements, especially about the villages of Troyanovo and Beli bryag? Are you going to hold a meeting with them or with their broadcasters? What action will you take as soon as possible to resolve their problems and meet the demands of these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u193	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! The concession for the extraction of underground wealth was granted to the Mini Maritsa East by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 13 July 2005. The agreed concession contract defines the area of the field and 35-year duration of the concession with the right to extension, under the terms and terms laid down in the contract. The village of Beli Bryag and Troyanovo are situated in front of the minefield front of Troyanovo, north of Troyanovo, the village of Kovachevo, which is the main supplier of coal to TPP AES Galabovo. From the mine are submitted periodic coal and to the TPP Maritsa East 2 Unfortunately, without the exodus of these villages, it is impossible to develop the mine, respectively, to deliver coal in future periods. At the end of 2015 the mining works or the high open horizons of the mine mine mine, Troyanovo north, will be 800 m away from the village of Beli bryag and 1,300 m away from the village of Troyanovo. The real mining activities will directly affect the territory of the two villages, respectively for the village of Beli bryag about 2025 and for the village of Troyanovo around 2030. At present, there are no regulatory parameters of the sanitary zone for settlements located near the mining sites. The 300m distance quoted in your question refers to mining facilities such as railways, substations, industrial sites and others that were built and put into operation more than 60 years ago. Understandably, residents of the villages of Beli bryag and Troyanovo have repeatedly put to the attention of various institutions the issues related to the relocation of the villages, as they fall within the scope of the area of mines of Maritsa East. Over the years, a number of meetings have been organized, as you mentioned, with the residents of Beli bryag and Troyanovo in order to inform the public about the company's forecasts for mining activities and the gradual entry into the territory of the settlement. In addition, the detailed planning plans for the villages of the villages of Beli bryag and Troyanovo were announced according to the requirements of the law, and a public discussion was organised on 18 March 2010. In this public discussion there is no objection to the detailed spatial plans drawn up. Regarding your question regarding fair valuation of property prices, I can say the following. The assessment of each real estate is carried out by a licensed valuer based on analysis and description of the construction characteristics, state of the properties and permanent plantations, of course, and market information on the sales made in the last periods of similar properties in the village of Belibank and in other settlements of the municipality of Radnevo and neighboring Galabovo and Nova Zagora. In order to limit the financial costs of the company in 2013 the processes of acquisition of yard and residential properties in the village of Troyanovo have been temporarily suspended, given their reaching from mining activities after 2030. The fact is that for both settlements the process of acquisition of properties is delayed due to limited financial resources of the company. In conclusion, on the occasion of your appeal and the question of whether I am ready to see the people, yes, here, from the stands of Parliament, I declare that I am ready at any time when the inhabitants of these two villages wish to see them and discuss the problems that I admit are not easy for anyone. However, this is the situation at the moment and the process is delayed precisely because of a lack of financial resources that could allow the mines to buy these properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u195	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u196	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, if people's expectations for a fair solution to the problem are enormous and their patience is running out, I say this because the people in these villages one that live in some horror movie of semi-damaged villages. The fact that in 2030 the villages will be relocated, and everything is happening now - 15 years earlier - is simply putting them in some impossible situations. I'm sorry to say this, but in your response, I didn't see any vision of a complete solution to the problems, because these two villages are now, and then there are two more. And I hope it doesn't happen to Troyanovo and the White Coast because people don't deserve it. They're the main labor donors for the mines, and they just don't deserve that. By the way, no Bulgarian deserves to live under such conditions. I wish, despite the limited time, to remind you of a decree of the Council of Ministers of 17 March 1982 signed by then Prime Minister Grisha Filipov for the exodus of Vedchevo and Ovcharovo. This decree, even though it was in one that was referred to us, to undemocratic or totalitarian governance, you can take it as an example of how people's problems are solved. They were given plots that were granted the right to construction, without construction fees, with a five-year discount not to pay property tax, GASA then gave them priority long-term loans. I won't mention the example in Germany where people worked with psychologists and so on, and they did it in a cultural, European way, I'll say German way. People don't want much. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm running out of time, two more sentences. They want transparency in valuation of property, access to tax criteria and arguments of valuers and fair valuations. They want to apply the principles of what I have quoted you to the Ministerial Decree, at least as far as possible in the current terms. They also want jobs to be provided as a priority for the inhabitants of these displaced villages. Madam Minister, if I may say so, the ball is in your court, you are on the move. Give people fair and satisfying solutions because they deserve nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u197	Thank you. Minister Petkova for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, I fully share the concerns expressed by you about the way and environment in which these compatriots live in these two villages. Believe me that we know about the problem and we are really trying, colleagues from the previous government in the same way had similar initiatives for meetings and for talks, the previous government, too, you know. We are extremely committed to the fate of these people. At present, about 59% of the properties in the village of Beli bryag voluntarily have been bought. About 37% of the estate... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Yes, in Troyanovo. This, of course, is not enough and does not mean that it has to stop this process. We are making efforts, I assure you that we will do our best to make sure that the lives of the people in these two villages are truly worthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u199	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Yavor Haytov on investments in the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! In the middle of May this year, when visiting a government delegation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Qatar, which included you, Minister, the Bulgarian public through the media was informed that Qatar was interested in investment and financing in the VII block of the NPP. NPP "Kozloduy" is located in the territory of Vratsa region and as elected MP from this region, for me this was an extremely pleasant and positive information. Furthermore, citizenship and the public in the region welcomed the fact that the launch of the construction of the VII block of the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, would undoubtedly be of great importance for the economic revival in the region. I am also aware that in its Decision No 328 of 14 May 2015, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria approved a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Energy of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Energy of Qatar for Energy Cooperation. And my question to you, Madam Minister, is: at what stage are the negotiations with the Cathar authorities in the spirit of their interest in investing and financing the VII block of the nuclear power plant When do we expect development and finalisation of the negotiations? What deadlines have you set for the start of the work on the VII block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the possible investments made by Qatar during the meetings you held as a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u201	Thank you. Madam Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u202	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, in the framework of the official visit of the government delegation of the Republic of Bulgaria to Qatar in May this year, opportunities for cooperation between the two countries, including in the field of energy, were discussed. In this regard, a bilateral meeting was held with Qatar's Minister of Energy and Industry, during which energy issues of mutual interest in electricity, gas production and potential investment opportunities were discussed. As you rightly pointed out in your question, the opportunity and desire of Bulgaria to build a new block on the site of NPP. We were presented with the advantages of the VII block, existing and functioning infrastructure, the real possibility of exporting the electricity produced. At the meeting an agreement was reached on our country to provide detailed information on the possibilities and current state of the project with a view to possible future investment intention. This information was prepared and provided in order to continue the good cooperation between Bulgaria and Qatar at the end of May as Minister of Energy I sent an official invitation to the Minister of Energy and Industry of Qatar with an invitation as soon as possible and convenient for the Minister to visit Bulgaria. The reason for the invitation is the continuation of the topics discussed in May as well as the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation in the field of energy. Nuclear energy is represented as one of the priority directions in the Memorandum of Cooperation approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, as you mentioned, No 328 of 14 May this year. At present we expect feedback from Qatar on the date of the visit of the Cathar Minister, at which he meets besides the signing of the Memorandum, I hope we will discuss the investment plan of the Qatarian side on the occasion of our proposal for the construction of the VII block of the NPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u203	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Haytov, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it is clear that such investments cannot be made today for tomorrow, that it requires a lot of preparation, a lot of time, expert exchange of documentation, analyses and assessments. I find from your answer that technological work is being done on these issues. That is, the information Bulgarian citizens received that Qatar is interested in these investments is not just a media bubble. We certainly expect this high-level visit of potential Cathar investors. I will allow myself to ask you, you can also accept it as a friendly, collegiate council. Let them see potential investors that they can be welcomed and that they will be friendly with all the necessary respect and demonstration of desire for interaction. I hope that there will be a fruitful cooperation of yours and, after all, what we are pleading for, and those in power, and opposition, is actually to have good infrastructure, to have jobs, to have the most important cheap energy for the population, something that in the previous term of the GERB government was not always discussed in a positive way. Thank you. I will keep an eye on these visits and on the development of all that you are saying today from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u205	Thank you. Mrs. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Haytov, what you have said is the truth. The construction of a new VI block of nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" is really a long and complex process. It's a decision that can't be made in a month or two. For this reason, the information that we have prepared contains the technical parameters of the project, the financial parameters of the project, which is, of course, the subject and will be the subject of a thorough discussion by potential Cathar investors. Without knowing about your proposal, at my meeting with the Minister of Energy and Industry of Qatar, I invited him to visit Bulgaria and visit the Kozloduy nuclear power plant, so I hope that such a visit to the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, will indeed be on the part of the Cathar minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-10.u207	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the last question of today's parliamentary control. I thank Mrs Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, for her participation in control. The National Assembly will meet overtime next Tuesday at 11.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
