ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. According to a decision of the National Assembly today, we are holding an extraordinary plenary session dedicated entirely to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 91-103 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION Before that one message: On 22 May, a report on the state of administration was submitted to the National Assembly in 2014, adopted by Decision No 346 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. By my letter, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. For the period from 22 May 2015 to 25 May 2015, no new requests were received. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a request from the National Representative Ivan Cholakov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Georgi Andonov and Daniela Saveklieva; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Vyara Cerovska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Irena Kotseva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Kalina Balabanova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Manol Genov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov to a question from the popular presentations Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Cornelia Marinova. First in the current parliamentary control will be responsible for the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. To him will ask his question the people representative Willy Lilkov on the implementation of the Law on Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question I have asked you is related to a particular case which I have had to deal with in recent months and is related to the rights of citizens, longtime savers. When I tried to obtain some information regarding the National Housing Fund, it turned out that the Ministry of Finance's website had no current information and it had not been updated in many years. Furthermore, I have found that since 2008, the currents have not been updated at all and their value stands at 8 cents. Moreover, I was very surprised when I found that at the moment the National Compensation Housing Fund paid interest rates to citizens for 2010 and 2011. My specific question is as follows: why hasn't the information on the Ministry of Finance website been updated so that citizens can be informed at what stage is the payment of their interest rates? Why hasn't the value of these glaciers been updated for seven years now, at a point of interest? Something very important: the pace at which the National Cohesion Housing Fund is currently paying the sums of citizens defined as entitled shows that we will deal with this problem perhaps by 2040. citizens who are recognised by the rights of this fund must wait. I imagine it might take 40 years to pay off these amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Lilkov, you mentioned that you were provoked by lack of information. Perhaps the Ministry of Finance's page is not best structured. However, I would like to assure you that in Section "Budget", a sub-category of the budget statement of the Ministry of Finance you can find a regular report on the degree of implementation of the approved areas of policies and budgetary programmes of the Ministry for the corresponding financial year. In the budget programme "National compensation fund" there can be found updated information about the activities of the Fund for each year. The problem you are putting is not new for the plenary, it is not new for the Bulgarian society. If I follow literally the questions asked, I would like to inform you that for 2015 the expenditure on the budget of the National Housing Fund is 11 million. Three hundred and thirty-seven thousand. BGN, of which only 241 thousand. are the costs associated with the so-called support of the Fund. Under the Law on Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Deposits, the members of the Board of the Fund shall not receive remuneration as from the beginning of 2009. One hundred fifty-two local committees shall have to the municipalities which shall be defined as maintenance by the municipal councils. Such information is not provided by municipalities to the Ministry of Finance, but it is at the expense of the alimony of municipal administrations. As for the left-hand index you mentioned, according to art. 7, para. 2 of the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits, the amount of the left-hand index for one savings is determined by the Governing Council, taking into account inflation, market prices of housing and available funds under the Fund. Those three listed conditions should be met cumulatively and at this stage no circumstances have been taken into account that would require a change in the index. You are right that there are many accumulated rights of citizens who over the years have been partly decided. If it is assumed that this is a leading priority in fiscal planning for the next year, you know that the budget for this year was drawn up under a limitation and risk of a procedure for over-the-counters if it is considered that this is a major policy priority in the next financial year, a significant resource could be allocated to finance all accumulated rights finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u5	The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot accept that criteria for determining contributions annually to the Fund, namely the Fund's budget, may be available funds. Because when there's no money, that means we won't update these interest currents for years to come. Moreover, no one can convince me that since 2008 there has been no accumulated inflation and housing prices have changed. In other words, the principles and criteria by which the price of a liquid point is determined should be reviewed. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I insist that the amount of funds being allocated to the Fund should be increased dramatically this year, because it comes down to the following: people who have recognised their rights this year and who have purchased housing this year, and have hoped to receive the money this year, will receive them in a few years, and they pay mortgages. I will read you a passage from a letter I received on May 22nd, precisely on the occasion of this case that I dealt with: On Monday, 25 May 2015, I have to make another mortgage payment and I have not gotten anywhere. The situation has become very complicated. I have two options: either I move out and stay on the street with my two kids, or I pay three months late. I don't have any help from anyone. In other words, these people were hoping that this year, since their rights for this year have been recognized, they will get their money. They've bought a place, they've drawn a loan, and now they're told: Two thousand and seventeen years you'll get your money. Do you understand the drama we're talking about? This is not a case, it is tens and hundreds of cases in Bulgaria. I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to increase sharply the funds of 11 million we spend annually in this Fund so that we can solve people's problems. Otherwise, I repeat, 30 or 40 years we will have to wait so that we can at this rate solve people's problems and even more late for five years. It's just that I don't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u7	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u8	Mr. Lilkov, I consider your commitment to this issue as a final attempt to break up with communism, as the problems we are now dealing with are inherited from this period. I took the floor for the duplicate to point out to you that, yes, there are changes in the conjuncture related to the real estate market, but it is not an argument to increase this index, as compared to 2008 the cost of housing has a negative index. We also have no accumulation of serious inflation processes, especially in recent years. I agree with you that if this is a priority in the National Assembly, in the following year a significant resource for closing this page could be allocated to a final case which has arisen under other market conditions and under other realities and a public organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Goranov. There is a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov about measures and actions to counter corruption. We're listening to the question, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is focused on what measures and actions the government will take to stop, curb corruption practices and pass through customs, as we are witnessing some noisy media stocks. Recently, these noisy media stocks have led to a number of obstacles inside the system. I'm guessing you'll be able to tell us certain details of what happened. I would be more interested to hear how we will cut all the contraband that passes through the Bulgarian border, as the Union's external border we are extremely tasty from this point of view. We know that refugees are already much easier to pass, including customs officers and officers of the Border Police. They help them, so to speak. I suppose you have some information about the amount of illegal traffic that passes through our border, and how we intend to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u11	For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Alexandrov, the format of parliamentary control would not be enough for me to explain to you all the measures that we are taking or which could be further taken to combat corruption at all levels of public administration which are subjected to such pressure as a result of management of processes of significant material interest. In this sense, the answer could be structured like this: we have stated many times and have unconditionally supported all the legitimate actions of the competent authorities revealing, proving and preventing corruption practices at all levels in the administration and have shown this with repeated actions that have also been reflected by the media. That is why you take occasion to talk about noisy media stocks that there will be no tolerance for such illegal behaviour. The easiest measure of political will is the revenue side of the budget. That is, how the state manages, under equal conditions, to collect its revenues. In this sense, I will soon be able to quote data on another parliamentary request, but I will now allow myself to say that the budget implementation data for the first four months of the year shows a significant improvement in the budget position. As of April 2015, and May data are even more positive in terms of the current of the fiscal balance, in 2015 on 30 April the budget position is an excess of 1 billion. 66 million, which is the best fiscal performance compared to recent years, compared to that of 2008. To compare, last year, for one reason or another, the balance, at a comparable budget cost, was negative at the rate of 864 million. I would like to assure you that the problems related to smuggling and avoiding the payment of taxes and theft from the Bulgarian budget are not only in the Bulgarian customs. This is a problem of constant analysis and impact by the Bulgarian judicial authorities. There are problems not only in customs. There are also problems in other state services, which have a major role to play in guarding the Bulgarian budget and the legal order. I want to assure you that the efforts in this direction are non-absolute and the noisy media stocks and realizations will continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u13	The line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the positive budget balance or the surplus you are currently generating may also be partly due to the increase in oil prices, the suspension of the planned repairs of Lukoil. I understand that the problem is not only in Bulgarian customs. This problem has it everywhere, but if the prime minister goes out and says that customs have a task of 1.6 additionally to collect in the budget, then you should therefore have some analysis, even if it is exemplary, not so accurate, what is the volume of smuggling and what will be the main measures. For example, two accents the government is struggling with with this smuggling. An additional 1.6 billion, we know it's an extremely large figure in the budget. The question is the end of the year to see whether it will be achievable and whether with the possible update that is proclaimed, perhaps on your part, given the GERB Party, this thing will be written down and whether it will be so. That's what I cared about. And let the stock continue. There's a video on the Internet, I can show it to you, which is for a customs officer who directly stops a car, says.................................................................................. I don't like seeing them like this. It is very clear to me that there is this problem everywhere in the world somewhere more, somewhere less. You yourself have had such a statement since January this year, if I am not mistaken. The question is what will we do from now on, because otherwise it damages the overall interest of the state and taxpayers as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u16	Mr. Alexandrov, I stress again that the format of parliamentary control does not give enough time to be able to listen to all the actions taken. Just to avoid the degree of abstraction that I started the answer with, I will quote at least two measures that have been taken specifically. One is related to the installation of video surveillance cameras, a process that runs at the largest border crossing points, which will enable control and analysis of the risk of crossing the border without interference of customs officers, i.e. without human intervention, something that will significantly reduce the pressure on the human factor and the bad practices of Bulgarian customs. In addition, amendments to the Customs Act are proposed, which are of the attention of the national representation related to the possibility of more flexible human resources management and mobility in the performance of their duties, so that there is no convergence of certain employees on the designated routes and the creation of the possibility of organising bad practices. You can see, the bill has been introduced long ago, I suppose it's in a very advanced phase of consideration and acceptance. There are proposals relating to the secondment of customs officials and other amendments to the Law, which, in our opinion, are a possible measure to reduce bad practices, which, unfortunately, are undoubtedly observed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u17	Next, a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning the funds from the state budget allocated to the municipality of Varna.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Goranov, my question is regarding public statements by both members of the government and the mayor of Varna for funds from the state budget invested in the municipality of Varna. Please answer the following question: for the period from the beginning of the cabinet term Borisov how much funds are available for the municipality of Varna, for what purposes have they been allocated and on what grounds? It is about funds with a decision of the Council of Ministers, funds from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u19	For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, I will go a little further and answer you even more than you asked me, and I will present information about other periods other than the one you refer to. I don't think that's too much information for you. In 2013, the municipality of Varna received an act of the Council of Ministers providing additional funds for capital expenditure amounting to 11 million. The main purpose is to build a nursery, kindergartens, rehabilitation of road floors, building a school sports hall. This was done by Decree No 17 of 24 January 2013 for the main renovation and construction of nursery and kindergarten.. 4 million, and by Decree No 24 of February 2013 for the financing of the construction of a multifunctional sports hall at the secondary school of Elin Pelin "Vladislav Varnaczyk " City of Varna 5 million; by Decree No 70 of the same year for the Restoration and Restoration of the Roman Thermaes of Odesos 150 thousand; by Decree No 288 of 14 December 2013 to ensure the launch of construction works of the Palace of Culture and Sports in Varna "500 thousand; for overcoming violent disasters and accidents on 21 March 2013. 491 thousand. In 2014 a total of 14 million were granted. Seven hundred and thirty-six thousand. with three regulations of the government. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty. 797 thousand for the reconstruction of the Congressna Hall in the Palace of Culture and Sport, including the supply of materials and equipment in order to improve the opportunities for use of the hall and increase its capacity. At the end of April 2015, the additional capital expenditure allocation to the municipality of Varna amounted to 8 million. They were granted by an act of the government to rehabilitate Blvd. "Knyaz Boris I" from 1st Street. "Tsar Liberator" near the circle intersection of Blvd. "Knyaz Boris I" and the exit from Alley First. The site is of paramount importance for the region and is a major artery along which the Republican road network passes. Bull. It is located parallel to the sea coast of Varna and ensures the transition from the central part of the city to the resort complexes. We believe that building the site is important not only for the convenience of the citizens and guests of Varna, but will improve the movement and level of safety in the operation of this road artery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u22	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I asked you for a reason about this period when you are the Minister of Finance. You've done analogies with previous years. My question is regarding, including objectives that are pursued by granting funds. Varna Municipality needs to invest funds that are far larger than they are now granted. The question is whether it is justified and what are the priorities, again making an analogy with previous years, when looking for relief of transport by building priority of roundabouts, by building breakthroughs of boulevards to alleviate the transport scheme. At the same time, there are pressing means that are necessary in relation to landslides operating in the vicinity of the town of Varna, which are in the territory of the municipality of Varna. The funds provided by the state budget are the funds that Varna's citizens need most of the priority because, including the renovation of the Sports Hall, it is said that even after the sports competition, the renovation is still ongoing. It did not become clear what the funds were and how justified they were, how the state controlled the spending of the taxpayers' money from the municipality of Varna. As a matter of fact, as much as the funds are being allocated, they will be insufficient. However, how far is the effectiveness of the funds not linked to the upcoming election campaign? What you have told us today as funds does not specifically answer the question of how precisely the funds are provided to the municipality of Varna from the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u24	Mr. Iankov, I'm sorry if the many numbers I mentioned confused you and you couldn't understand that I answered your question. He's following, I repeat. At the end of 2014 9.7 million were provided for the reconstruction of Hall "Congressna". They replace and complement the 5 million provided by the previous government for the same purpose. In addition to the funds for reconstruction of the hall were provided by the end of April 8 million for rehabilitation, as I mentioned, on the boulevard "Knyaz Boris I" from the boulevard "Tsar Exhibitor" to the circle intersection of the boulevard "Knyaz Boris I" and the exit from the. I agree with you that probably a large Bulgarian city has many problems to solve, but I would like to assure you that the sites financed with targeted additional subsidies from the government are determined only on the basis of a request from the local authorities in the city of Varna. And if there is any comment on what are the priorities of the local authorities in Varna, the local parliament is the place to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u25	Thank you, Minister Goranov. We continue with the next question for you. He is from the National Representative Petar Vladislavov Slavov on the structure of the overexecution of more than 820 million. lv. revenue in the budget for the first quarter of 2015 Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question concerns the good data that we have heard since the beginning of the year for a re-execution of revenue in the budget for the first quarter. Further, I think that you have announced information about the surplus, even in some of the first months, for the first time in a long time. Let me, before I ask the question, congratulate you on this good trend and wish you that it will continue further, in spite of the grotesque scenarios that the opposition is drawing up. Now the question. Dear Minister, publicly available, including in Yours and the Prime Minister's statements, received the good results for the implementation of the revenue part of the state budget for the first quarter of 2015. Overfill of the estimated revenues of more than 820 million was announced. lv. In view of the 3% deficit at stake in budget 2015 and the need to finance it through a loan resource, the re-execution of revenue in the budget, and especially if the trend continues in the next quarter, it would have a positive impact on both public finances and the amount of public debt. Therefore, a careful analysis of the structure of this re-execution is needed, i.e. what are its main sources, respectively, are there sectors in which the generated revenues are not implemented compared to what was expected? Dear Minister, in this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: what is the structure of the realised overexecution of revenues in the state budget for the first quarter of 2015, including what is the implementation carried out by the NRA and the Customs Agency of taxes, duties and excise duties and are there sectors in which there is non-compliance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Slavov, for asking the question. Minister Goranov, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, the clearest evidence that efforts are being made to combat corruption and the strongest anti-corruption measure can be measured through the revenue part of the Bulgarian budget, especially when there are no clearly outlined trends for serious nominal and real growth of the economy. With regard to the question you have raised, I would like to make it clear that the data requested for the re-execution of revenue at the first quarter of the year do not relate to the over-execution of estimates for the period, but to a nominal increase in tax revenue from the same period of the previous year. The data shows that the percentage increase in tax revenue for the first quarter. Of course, we already have data for the month of April and preliminary ones for May, ahead of significant nominal growth rates in the State Budget Act for 2015, compared to the reported revenues for the last year. I will brief you with the data on the implementation of the revenue as of 30 April 2015. Notice, I supplement information anyway, it is available and created. Revenues from the revenue agencies for the first four months of the year are 814.2 million more than those collected on 30 April 2014. It's a nominal growth of 11.5 percent. For comparison, the projected growth in tax revenues for the year with the 2015 Budget Act compared to 2014 is 4.3 percent. The revenue growth is mainly due to more revenue collected from value added tax. As of the last day of April 2015, the revenue from value added tax was 359.3 million more compared to the same period last year, which represents nearly 16% growth. After the value added tax with the highest share in the increase in revenues for 2015 are the amounts received on the budgets of the state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund. This increase represents an increase of 14.4% compared to previous years. Revenues from excise duties at the end of April amounted to 113,8 million more than the same period of the previous year or about 10% nominal growth. As indicated above, revenue from 30 April compared to the first four months of 2014 was 814.2 million higher at 738.8 million at 31 March 2015. The trend continues. I can assure you that the May data also shows that this is probably a sustainable trend of significantly better revenue collection compared to the corresponding periods of the previous year. I would like to assure you and to declare in the context and of your question that the better revenues will be directed to reducing the deficit and hence the need for loan financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u29	Thank you for your response. Here you go, Mr. Slavov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for that answer. I will wish you once again this trend to continue, because in many areas in the country reforms are being implemented and it is really important that these sectors can be supported, and the realization of a surplus of revenue will, of course, help in this regard. I will use the line to pay attention to some of the data that I have been impressed with, and for me personally this trend is encouraging, namely growth and excise duties, as well as revenue from value added tax. Especially with regard to excise duties, as you recall, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Law on excises and tax warehouses earlier in the year, which concerns the return of the so-called measuring instruments and the working group in which we worked, including representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency, gave quite serious hopes for better revenue and better implementation of the planned budget. So this trend that we're seeing here is more than 10% overrun, I think it speaks in this direction. I will also use to remind you of the measuring instruments that we talked about being placed with cigarette dealers and alcohol dealers, and I think we have asked you earlier with colleagues from the Reformation Block, a notification was needed. If you have information in this regard, how far things have reached there, I would be grateful if you would share it, because I am convinced that the implementation of these measures, and with regard to these measuring instruments, will bring even better results in excise duties, and obviously also in VAT, will reflect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u31	I just want to assure you, Mr. Slavov, that the issuance of a regulation is at a very advanced stage, which is delegated by the law to regulate the question that you are asking. Until then, we rely on enhanced physical control and on conventional methods that help and deliver results in support of what you have always proclaimed to reduce any possibility of stealing excise duty and VAT from the budget. I assure you that the decree of the Minister of Finance delegated by the law will be issued very soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with the next question for you. He is from the National Representative Willy Lilkov on the development of the Methodology for the preparation of the plan-account with the necessary costs for the activities and the types of foundations which serve to determine the amount of the household waste charge. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! A decision was made more than a year ago, by the end of 2014. The Council of Ministers proposed a new methodology for determining the waste fee for municipalities, more precisely for citizens and companies. This decision was not implemented and was again entrusted to the Council of Ministers by the end of March this year to submit a new Methodology for the determination of the plan-account for the collection, disposal and disposal of municipal waste. This was due to the widespread discontent of citizens and companies that the waste tax is determined mainly by all municipalities in Bulgaria based on the tax assessment of their properties. I believe that this discontent is fully justified, especially in large cities and their centres, in new and modern neighborhoods, many of the residential properties, which have high tax assessments, are now paying really impossible costs for waste collection, removal and disposal of household waste. In this sense, I ask you the following question: at what stage of preparation is the Methodology that the Ministry of Finance should prepare and propose to the Council of Ministers, and when do you intend to submit this Methodology for its approval to the Council of Ministers, because the end of the year is coming and if again in 2016 a waste charge should be calculated according to this Methodology, which I define not only as imperfect, but also as wicked, we will lie to the citizens again and allow heavy disproportions when paying the tax of citizens and companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lilkov! The very fact that the problem has not been solved for so many years shows that it is extremely complex and talks about accumulated problems in the part of the organization of waste collection, waste disposal and disposal of household waste from many years back. What needs to be said, however, whenever this topic is discussed, is that, in fact, the current Law on Local Taxes and Fees gives many different possibilities for setting a base and only exceptionally that municipalities can use the tax assessment as a basis. We should therefore be aware that all Bulgarian municipalities, by exception, not because the law drives them, apply this basis. What should also be considered and predetermined the complexity of the debate is that when changing the base, it is not a secret and let everyone understand it, there will be a very serious rebalance of the burden of financing these municipal activities from business and property with higher tax assessments to mass housing. This simply means reducing the burden on business and increasing the burden on citizens by a rather serious percentage. This is also the problem, which does not allow for an easy and quick solution to this problem and the debates in the working group working on the methodology are quite thorough and without a single opinion which direction should be chosen. Once again, we need to bear in mind that if at first glance the question sounds like this: Let's lighten the citizens, the answer is that with such a change we will inevitably burden the citizens, even though this is undoubtedly fairer in terms of economic logic and economic processes, because we need to bind the volume of domestic waste generated with the fee that is paid, and not be linked to the value of the assets, this is undeniable and no one denies it, the correct proportion and the correct way has not yet been cleared as a single position in the heads of the executive power, the National Association of Municipalities and the representatives of the business organisations. No acceptable compromise has been reached. Perhaps the answer will not satisfy you, but I inform you that this working group has decided to draft a Bill amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and only then to develop a methodology or regulation. The work of the group is extremely difficult due to differences between business, municipalities and mutually exclusive opinions, lack of constructive dialogue and assistance to provide information, data, analysis and impact assessment on the countries concerned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If there's a line, I'll finish the show.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u36	Thank you for understanding. Mr. Lilkov, come in for a line to give you an opportunity to finish your reply. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u37	Thank you. I understand the actual complexity of this problem, but until the Parliament and the Council of Ministers intervene, respectively, the Ministry of Finance, the municipalities will make it the same, because the easiest way is to tie a waste charge to the property tax assessment, but at the same time it is the unfair one. In this sense, we should be thinking about how to limit municipalities to apply this worst model of calculating garbage charge, because it is in drastic violation of the basic level of pollution it pays. In this sense, as far as I understand from your reply, and in 2016 municipalities will continue to calculate a waste charge according to the old methodology, owners of large real estate will continue to pay a disproportionate waste charge to the one they produce, business will continue to actually subsidise the waste collection and waste management activities, that is to say we will take it back to normal. I call on you to find some consensus in this Commission. I cannot accept that a one-bedroom apartment in the center of Sofia produces 10 times more trash than a one-bedroom apartment in any peripheral area, and also the office of a company to produce more trash than an equivalent property used for residential purposes. As difficult as it may be, we need to take the first steps and limit the municipalities to going the lightest way, because it is really easy to administer a garbage tax charge by binding it to the tax, but the smallest connection is it with the property tax assessment, and the smallest connection is this tax assessment with the waste produced by a household or by a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u38	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u39	We have no contradictions, Mr. Lilkov, with the fact that the current model of organisation and financing of the collection, disposal and disposal of household waste does not take into account to the fullest extent the binding link between the contaminated and the price paid for the use of this service. Again, however, I would like to stress where the problem is rooted so that all Bulgarian citizens are aware, because what we are commenting on at the moment concerns every Bulgarian citizen. Rebalance, which is economically fair and correct, will lead to a significant increase in the burden on citizens and, respectively, the reduction of this How to achieve the best solution? The very fact that 15 years has not been found shows that, first of all, there is a great deal of unpopularity in terms of increasing the burden on citizens and reducing the burden on businesses, and, second of all, technical solutions on how to achieve a maximum connection between the volume of waste generated and the price to be paid is not universal for each municipality. In this sense, it must be very careful not to go to a decision that is comparable as a price to the amount of the fee. You know that there is different European experience with the sale of special bags for the collection of household waste and various other solutions, which are relatively complex or new to the Bulgarian lifestyle and temper. It is now discussed as the most likely, most likely and easiest scenario, the transition to taxation in quotes, as the problem is now that it is close to taxation the current regime of organizing the formation of revenue, to the area of property, which is also not directly related to the volume of waste generation, but is closer to the potential for the generation of such waste and far beyond the distortion associated with the book value of assets.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov about the need to challenge KTB's acquisition of assets. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question to Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As early as the temporary Syndicates in the CCB were given the right to change the Law on Bankruptcy, which we all, colleagues, voted on, to challenge intercepts. Permanent Syndicates have that right, too. The captures made with regard to CCB assets are, according to our data, over 900 million. lv. Can you imagine over 900 million? Lev?! Here we see the danger of direct damage to the mass of bankruptcy. So, Minister, the question I'm asking you today is this. According to the latest changes to the Bankruptcy Act, you are directly informed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund, you receive direct information from them. Is there a challenge of the intercepts made regarding their reality and their disruption? If this process is initiated, you should give us specific data on how many intercepts have already been attacked in court and at what total value? Is there a system of work, first, to attack the biggest intercepts and then, in order, the next until it reaches the smaller ones? Because the biggest, of course, could potentially damage the very same mass of bankruptcy. But, honourable colleagues, dear Minister! This is about justice. We cannot, in the context of special supervision, when we explicitly recorded in the Law that these intercepts could be challenged, not to be done. It must be done, they must all be attacked, broken in court if he considers that they have grounds for these claims, because some people cannot be privileged at the expense of everyone else! This must be stopped, there must be justice. Everyone should be the same before the law, and in this case they should get the same percentage of the bankruptcy table.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u42	If you'd like to focus on finishing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u43	Minister, what has been done so far and what will be done in the future?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Answer from the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Dimitrov! Undoubtedly the public interest is seriously damaged and, in this sense, the issue of the activities of the Syndicates at the CCB will be up-to-date and appropriate for each session of parliamentary control at which the Finance Minister appears. I want to assure you: the simplest answer to your question what has been done and what will be done! Absolutely all transactions that potentially damage the mass of bankruptcy will be attacked. Some of them are already under attack, with cancellations filed on the grounds of art. 59, para. 3 in connection with para. 4 of the Bankruptcy Act, texts which all parliamentary parties unanimously supported in connection with the persecution of so-called chain transactions. In the same connection, more than 200 credits have been declared early due, they are brought to this stage of the process of being really too few, but they are being prepared and will be entered, several hundred files, 8 cases for declaring relative invalidity of the intercepts. They're worth over 4.6 million. lv. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that although we do not have a precedent, the hardest and most important thing will be the first decision on such a case. Perhaps the Bulgarian court will then act on an analogue. More than 50 legal proceedings have been initiated with a request from the CCB for the opening of insolvency proceedings against Syndicates and more than 35 other legal proceedings against debtors of the bank. Over 180 intercepts have been identified, which I was talking about being attacked, and some of them have already been attacked. There are 20 enforcement proceedings against debtors under the Law on Special Bets and under the order of execution through a bailiff. I am prepared to give you personally the last report that came from the Syndicates. Of course, neither I nor you have detailed information about individualization of individuals inside. But if you don't have it, I'm committed to giving it to you. It contains very recent data from the activities of the Syndicates. I am a moderate optimist, and at the next moment I will be able to respond to the hiring of the investigative firm that we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u46	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This is the right and only possible direction for all intercepts to be challenged and the money to be returned if the court so decides at the bankruptcy table. But, Minister, it may be appropriate for the Syndicates to give an action plan, since eight challenges of intercepts so far, if I have understood you correctly, seems insufficient. It is also important to check, although the Fund is an independent institution, but its President is appointed by the Council of Ministers, which gives a direct channel of control on your part, and through you and for parliamentary control, to ask for an action plan to show when more than 100 intercepts will be brought. You know, the more time wasted, the chance of success decreases. I agree that the first case and the court's ruling on it are very important. My second supplementary question is, do you have any idea when you're expecting this solution? In short, two things are important. One is an action plan by the Deposit Guarantee Fund because it cannot be delayed too long in time for these cases to take place. The second important issue, which is not up to you or the Deposit Guarantee Fund, is when you expect the decision in the first case on the declaration of relatively invalid intercepts, that is to say that all creditors get the same percentage after all, which is a question of justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u49	Mr. Dimitrov, you are right that the time factor is important not only in construction but also in bank bankruptcy. Very complex materially and procedurally are the cases that arise, which is not an argument for justification, but rather a request that the processes that flow and will flow in connection with the bankruptcy of KTB will be a long longer subject and subject to public debate because of the huge material interest and that the Deposit Guarantee Fund has become the largest creditor of the bank in bankruptcy. One hundred and eighty are the identified intercepts for which relative invalidity will be claimed. I cannot, unfortunately, give you confidence when the Bulgarian Court of Appeal will rule on the annulment, when we will have a first ruling, but I can assure you that within a short period of time all these annulments will be brought into court. Unfortunately, again, they are relatively complex as factual compositions and legal cases, each of them has its specifics. A huge resource as a capacity of lawyers is currently being used by the Syndicates to form these files so that they can be entered in the appropriate order in court. I am ready, although the format of parliamentary control, because of the time limit, does not allow for a full amount of information, in a conversation between the two of us or in a format, for example, in the Committee on Budget and Finance, to provide much more detailed information on recent developments. I make a commitment to comment with Mrs. Stoyanova this case and to invite you as a representative of the National Assembly to attend this debate, it is not unnecessary for us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is again from you, Mr. Dimitrov. So you are headed to the stands for the need to engage a company for international investigations on the case for KTB. You're welcome to formulate the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u51	Dear colleagues, the questions are thematically related. The unraveling of the KTB case requires hiring a company for international investigations. The so-called Florence companies who specialize in tracking the money, wherever they went around the world, identifying the persons involved, blocking the funds and then recovering some of the funds that have been drained in this way with their work. To my question in the blitzcontrol, the Prime Minister gave a satisfactory answer that there is a procedure for choosing such a large company. My question to you, Minister, is: is there more specific since it has been ten days, has there already been an elected company, is there a signed contract? There is a very key question. It is important when hiring such a company for international investigations, Florensi company, it is large, it is international, it has already managed to return money to other similar cases and so to sign the contract that the more money it returns to the bankruptcy table, the more money to take the company itself. That is, to have incentives to recover funds in order to obtain a higher fee. Thus to formulate the contract in order to create incentives for the company to pursue the money drained from CCB and to do everything possible to send them back to where they belong in the bankruptcy table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov, for asking the question. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u53	Honourable President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, brief factual reference and then commentary. With the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, in art. 31, para. 1, t. 17 to the trade union for consent and, on a proposal from the Fund, the hiring of an asset tracking firm and the filling-in of insolvency. In this regard, and after very careful preparation, the Fund developed an invitation for a proposal that was sent to the interested companies on 29 April 2015 with a response period of 6 May. Eleven companies, some of which are the largest in the world in this area, responded and sent their proposals within the time limit. Further questions were sent after a review of the tenders and replies were received on 8 May. The candidates approved by the Governing Council of the Fund were notified on 12 May and on 18 May they presented an action plan, including options for price proposals. On 19 May two candidates were selected, I can assure you, without quoting them by name, that these are the two largest companies in the world with similar experience, with which negotiations are launched to improve the parameters and conditions. My expectations, such are assurances from the Deposit Guarantee Fund that by the end of this week the negotiations are expected to end and there will be a contract. It is not correct now to disclose more information, in my opinion, as these are trade negotiations, but I can assure you that there is talk of two of the largest and there is a chance that the largest international company with experience in this area will be chosen. Moreover, a request from the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office was provided in advance to the companies, so that they can be used as experts employees of the company to assist the organization of the work of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office in relation to the problems in KTB and the doubts about violations of the law in the management of KTB by its management and owners, that is to say, it is relied on this company, which is elected. I will once again say that this will perhaps be the largest in the world and the most confirmed as an experience in this regard, to help and from the point of view of the organisation of the prosecution against potential lawbreakers associated with the situation at KTB.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to replicate the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u55	I fully agree with the concept of choosing a large international company because for each other, even Bulgarian if you want, there will be doubt of connectivity with some of the persons who have a role in KTB, whereas we are not even aware of the whole size and volume of persons who have had any relation to the KTB affair. That's why, Minister, I have one more important question. In addition to the purpose of this firm to recover some of the money and should be paid to it really depends on the more money it manages to return to the bankruptcy table, the greater the payment, i.e. to have clear incentives to raise more money, there is another very important issue. I am convinced that this firm, as is international practice, will not agree to reveal the list of persons involved in the KTB case on its own. But we must demand and talk to the Deposit Guarantee Fund after this company provides, life and health, the list of persons involved, which will be very wide, in Bulgaria the debate revolves around two or three people, but the list of persons involved in the KTB case will be far wider in my opinion. There'll be dozens of people there not to say anything else. It is important to me that this information, except that it will go where it belongs in the prosecution, but it is important that this information at some stage become public, Mr. Minister. That is to say, the contract with this company should be structured so that it is no longer too late for the Deposit Guarantee Fund to be entitled to one, perhaps later, the list of persons involved, after being provided to the prosecution, after the necessary collateral is imposed and the actions of Florensi International Investigation Company themselves are not threatened, to become public in order to understand both the Bulgarian citizens and the entire society who were involved in the KTB affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u57	Mr. Dimitrov, I personally share your proposal fully. What I do as a general comment is that one information, once created, never disappears. In this sense, if this investigative company succeeds in creating the necessary information, I am sure that you, as a national representation and executive, will find a way to acquaint the public with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Petar Slavov on the establishment of the State Fund for Defence Investments, with the means to finance the Program for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! My question concerns the so-called.Fund...................................................................................................... And in the new programme to be discussed in the National Assembly, there is also a similar idea. Here's the question. Dear Minister, after the National Security Advisory Council on the Problems of the Development of the Bulgarian Armed Forces held on 27 April 2015, the problem of the lack of funds in the Ministry of Defence was particularly severe in the current budgetary framework. More than 90% of the funds from the budget of the department are spent on salaries and maintenance of personnel, with the remaining funds for investment and new equipment being extremely insufficient to implement the large-scale reform that the armed forces need. A good opportunity for the Bulgarian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence to help themselves, in other words, to finance this deficit themselves would constitute the creation of a special Fund for Defence Investments, similar to the State Fund for guaranteeing the sustainability of the state pension system, or the so-called Silver Fund. Currently, under the Public Finance Act, revenue from the Ministry of Defence's budget from the sale of old weapons, properties and equipment, which are above those laid down in the respective annual budget of the Office, is transferred to the central budget. Such an approach, I hope you will agree, Mr. Minister, is neither economic nor market-based for the simple reason that the Ministry of Defence thus has no incentive to seek the highest market price for an asset, given that however high a price to achieve, the financial revenue for the office remains unchanged. Dear Minister, please answer the following question: do you consider it economically justified and appropriate to establish the State Investment Fund, similar to the Silver Fund, in which the proceeds from the sale of unnecessary weapons, equipment, property and properties of the Ministry of Defence, which go beyond what is at stake for the respective year in the budget of the Office and with which funds to finance the re-arming of the Bulgarian Armed Forces according to the standards of our Euro-Atlantic partners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Minister of Finance, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, don't take it the way it's going to sound, but to quote it anyway. You have asked a similar question with a content close to the one you are asking to me, to the Minister of Defence, whose short answer to your question is yes. The short answer of the Minister of Finance is Let me express some motives in this direction, which in no way change the importance of the question you are putting, only that the solution must be sought in another direction. The creation of a State Fund for Defence Investments is contrary to the principles and rules laid down in the Public Finance Act. The establishment of the revenue from the sale of unnecessary weapons, equipment, property and property of the Ministry of Defence in a separate fund does not change their nature of budget revenue and does not allow for the automatic carrying out of additional unread expenditure on the Fund's budget. In this respect, estimates of its revenue and expenditure are subject to inclusion in the consolidated fiscal programme. Such a fund can only be established with the status of a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Defence. Within the limits of the total expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Defence to one such fund will be applicable on the general basis of all the requirements laid down by the Public Finance Act in respect of the establishment and implementation of approved budgets with the annual State Budget Act. Regarding the so-called Silver Fund, I note to you that with the State Fund Act on guaranteeing the sustainability of the state pension system, the status of the Fund and its management rules are regulated. The Fund aims to achieve and ensure the sustainability of the state pension system through the accumulation, investment and transfer of funds, which finance the expenditure already estimated for the relevant year under the State social security budget for pensions. In practice, the funds raised in the Silver Fund are not a source of financing for additional costs. There is a significant difference between the two models. I will stop reading the exposition prepared by my colleagues from the Ministry to explain conceptually where the problem with the creation of such a fund is. If the expectations of colleagues from the Ministry of Defence are that such a Fund will allow for additional costs above those already established by the annual State Budget Act, the answer is: this will not happen, not because I am the Minister of Finance or because there is a Public Finance Act, but because all the costs that the Bulgarian government carries out must be approved in advance by the Bulgarian National Assembly as a limit and it cannot be exceeded by the executive power. This is a principle which is required not only by our budgetary practice but also by the structure of government, which envisions the State Budget Act to include all the expenditures of the executive, and hardly contradicts your understanding of how public finances should be managed. The problem of the state of defence finance must be dealt with by the annual State Budget Act, ensuring the possible and necessary, in a balance between sectors, a cost level, so as to approach NATO standards and enable us to gradually achieve full interoperability. It could hardly be resolved with the instrument being proposed, moreover, that, for the last few years, the estimated revenues of the Ministry of Defence budget are not regularly implemented until the volume determined by the annual Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u62	If you could just graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u63	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm graduating. I'm not using the back. There is no cost to be incurred by any authorising officer other than those established by the annual State Budget Act. This is the principle of parliamentary democracy. The annual State Budget Act is determined by the National Assembly and it includes all expenditures...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So as much as the costs we set for the defence for the year in question, the executive power will have. There is no mechanism for this expenditure to be increased without Parliament's control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u64	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Mr. Slavov, the line. Keep in mind that it will be without the back. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your extensive response, because I definitely didn't like the short one. Let's get back to the point. I agree in principle, conceptually with the way in which you have exposed them, it is undoubtedly necessary the approval of the National Assembly for any expenditure that carries out the executive power. In fact, this is consistent here and such agreement will exist, as the programme in question, on which this Fund will finance or support implementation, will be voted by the National Assembly, including all the investment projects to be implemented, especially the major ones. The purpose of the Fund, in addition to financing the available funds that are bet on the government budget of the Office, will also be to serve as a guarantor of possible long-term funding schemes to our partner NATO countries or third countries that would agree to provide, in a similar way, to sell, in simple terms, equipment to the Ministry of Defence of Payback. Obviously they will want guarantees that these commitments will be respected and that there is really a resource for this thing to happen. So this is another function that this fund could have. Of course, its management will not be out of control, I even suppose that in its possible structure.. this also implies changes in a number of regulations, a representative of the Ministry of Finance will be included, who will have direct monitoring of how these funds are raised and how they are spent. What I will finish with to give you some time, if you want to join me with the back-up, I take occasion from your words that there is no implementation of the bets, practically from own resources, in recent years in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. For me, it is proof that such a Fund is necessary because it is evident that the Ministry is not stimulated, it is not motivated to seek the best selling price, to dispose of unnecessary assets, to seek income by its own means. It would be quite different if some of these revenues entered into this Fund, perhaps not 100%, the percentage could be 50 or 80, but it is purely economic, that is the logic of a market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. You can react with the back. Let it be a little more concentrated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u67	Another minute of parliamentary time. The debate is important. Conceptually, it is hardly appropriate to compare economic incentives from the real business with the incentives that government should have in the management of state property, whether it is owned by the armed forces, so that we do not turn the disposal of property of the armed forces into a missionary activity. What I wanted to say is that, in fact, if the costs of defence are insufficient, we must return the debate to how much they should be, but in no way can the total amount of defence expenditure be excluded from the consolidated fiscal programme. The debate on its size shall be conducted with the annual State Budget Act. The creation of an additional toolbox is not impossible. However, it will again be subject to the general fiscal rules. This expenditure, which you, Mr. Slavov, are talking about to support the modernization of the army, also because these are the rules of Eurostat, will be part of the budget and will have to be voted on in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u68	Thank you, Minister Goranov. I see that the questions to you about today's parliamentary control are over. Thank you for your participation and we wish you a fruitful day! We move on to the next series of questions. They are to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov concerning the amounts due and received by the Republic of Bulgaria from the activities of the foreign company "Dundee Precious Metals." Here you are, Mr. Chukolov, to develop your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As you all know, we at Ataka Party have always kept pensions and salaries in Bulgaria to be a little bit comparable to those in Europe at least with the bottom of everyone else in Europe. In order for this to be the case, we need to enter the Bulgarian budget as many receipts as possible. Therefore, Madam Minister, guided by such motives, I ask you a question in which I would like to ask you: what is the profit in the company of Dundee Precious Metals for the entire period of its activity in Bulgaria, as well as for individual years, and what are the benefits for the country? What amounts have been made in a fiscal statement as concession fees, in general and in individual years, as well as in taxes relating to this activity? In this way, Madam Minister, I hope that here in this Chamber, we will understand the people who are watching, the Bulgarian journalists, in fact, what it costs to Bulgaria to give this golden concession, which we have been talking about for so many years, for which some journalists even dare to do shows. But we still can't understand what it costs to Bulgaria to have this offshore company registered here, if you please, on Bulgarian territory?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov, for the question. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chukolov! Two fields of metal minerals are granted to the concession of the companies of the group "Dundee Precious", the locality of Chelopech............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The legal relations are governed by the provisions of the Law on Underground Treasures and in connection with art. 18, para. 5 of the Constitution. In accordance with art. 5, para. 1 of the concession law, the extraction is carried out by means provided by the concessionaire and at its risk. For more clarity, I will go back a little bit in time and recall the chronology of events in relation to this concession. Under the Council of Ministers' Decision No 147 of March 1999, a concession for mining of underground wealth was granted for gold ores and the concession contract was concluded on 19 May 1999 for a period of 30 years. Chelopech is owned in March 1991 as a sole limited liability company and is 100% State owned at that time. After a series of transformations and transfers of shares of 9 December 2003, Chelopech Mining EAD, 100% owned by "Dundee Precious" Chelopech B. V.St., Ltd. is a legal person registered in the Netherlands. Since June 27, 2013, the company's company has been changed to Regarding your question about the company's profit, information about the company's profit from the group Dundee Precious is not collected, processed and stored in the Ministry of Energy. The Ministry of Energy shall collect information necessary for the formation of the concession payments due. It takes the form of monthly reports on the quantities of ore obtained and the content of the metals in it, according to, of course, the terms of the contract. The concession payments are formed as a percentage of the product of the amount of metals obtained in the ore and their prices on the London Metal Exchange for the corresponding reporting period. About the benefits for the country and the amounts received in the fissure. For the locality of Chelopech, with "Dundee Precious Metals Chelopech" EAD, the concession payments for the period 1999 to 2014 include 69 million. 859 thousand. BGN 394. without VAT. The concession payments, with effect from 1 January 2011, in the light of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax on these remunerations, are now charged 20% value added tax, which should be transferred to the National Revenue Agency. The obligation to pay the concession fee comes with the introduction of the property in operation. At present, the concessionaire does not owe a concession payment, as the property is not put into operation and its extraction is not carried out. With regard to the taxes paid by the two companies, I could not be useful as such information in the Ministry of Energy is not kept. Such information should be requested from the National Revenue Agency as this issue does not fall within the scope of the Underground Treasures Act. I will allow myself to recall that according to the change in the Law on Underground Treasures of 2011. 50% of the fees from the large concession fee over 500 thousand. Cube. m, and 100% of the fees from the small concession fees up to 500 thousand. Cube. M, they go to municipal budgets. In line with this requirement, the total concession contributions to the municipalities of Chelopech and Chavdar since 2007 to date are 26 million. 259 thousand. BGN 859. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u72	Thank you. I've left you a little longer so you can develop your answer. Mr. Chukolov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u73	Thank you. I understand from your reply that the Bulgarian state is being reported by Dundee Precious Metals, and we do not control their activities in any way. After all, for those over 10 years who work in Bulgarian territory, the Bulgarian state has won 69 million. BGN, and the concession fee for them is little less than 1%. Let's think about it, according to their data that we can only trust, and wishfully, they have won 7 billion, Bulgaria has left 69 million. lv. And at the same time, you're very well aware of prof. Gergelchev, whom we have also invited to the TV "Alfa" which has been in other national media, says that there are billions, billions of gold in the bowels of Bulgaria. What are we doing? Because we're a third world country, or maybe that's how they see us from the "Dundee Precious Metals" as a third world country, is that what we can't process? We cannot find funds to invest in gold mining and therefore the profit to remain in Bulgaria?! And the favorite question of some more naive journalists: Where was the money from, honourable representatives from "Attacka" when you want to raise pensions when you want to raise wages? Where did you get the money? " - Here, from such transactions money. From such transactions money when properly collected, properly in the Bulgarian treasury, when it is monitored about it, then you will see how there will be money. But you'll see this at another station. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Would you like a douche? You don't want to, Minister Petkova, thank you. The next question is postponed. He is from the MP Mr. Binev. We move on to two questions, which are united because of the identity of the topics and bear a common answer. The first question is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the expansion of the gas storage facility. The second is from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov regarding the expansion of the underground gas warehouse. The difference is only underground, but you will develop the question. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Petkova, my question is about the expansion of the gas storage facility. As a fact, Bulgartransgaz is the owner and operator of the only gas repository in Bulgaria. The specific question: Is the capacity increase of the existing gas storage facility envisaged and is there specific actions and costs involved in the implementation of this? According to information, including from the public space, an expansion of the gas storage facility will cost more than half a billion leva over 500 million. lv. In the answer that you will give, I expect you to answer me and how will we get profitability of these costs, i.e. what will be the return? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Bojinov, you also have the opportunity in two minutes to ask your question, after which Minister Petkova will have six minutes to answer both questions in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, perhaps, unlike my colleague, I believe that the gas storage facility in Chiren is extremely important for the national economy and energy. However, for the expansion of the repository to begin, there must be a working technology project. This was entrusted in 2010 to the Czech company MND. The design for the operation and expansion of the repository shall assess the suitability of all facilities, determine the number and locations of the necessary new drillings, the number of old drillings to be repaired, as well as the facilities to be replaced. This technology project developed four options for the expansion of the gas storage facility, with a detailed technological part with calculated capital costs and return on investment and a number of other parameters. I would like to stress that one of the most important parameters is that pressure in the storage room, which preserves its geological characteristics and its airtightness. Here is the discord and this is why the project is very difficult to accept, and it, although paid and accepted, does not serve as a basis for the activities that are announced to be on the expansion of the repository. And without a project, there can be no expansion. There are drills currently being made that have nothing to do with the technical project. They are done by an old practice: one geological drilling.. one procedure. This has its deep corruption grounds. So my question to you is: why don't you proceed with running the ten operations drills as provided for in the technology project? Why hasn't a comparison been made as to how much one individual or group of projects is worth? And the last question, Madam Minister: did those who prepared your answer have the courage to point out to you how many leva have bought these 7 acres in which the last drilling is developing is 72? If they've twisted, they're lying to you. If they haven't told you, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u78	Still, it's nice to hear the answer before we guess what it's gonna be like. Minister Petkova, please answer the questions asked by the two MPs. You have six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, Mr. Bojinov, at the beginning I would like to clarify that at the present stage of the development of the Chiren underground gas storage facility activities are being carried out under two different projects, which ultimately have one common goal and it is becoming a modern gas storage facility that meets the standards and requirements of the European Union for this type of activity. These two projects are the following: The first project is a modernization of gas storage infrastructure, which will allow the increase of daily gas flow rates to levels above 5 million cubic metres per day. The current maximum value is 4.2 million cubic meters in 24 hours. In relation to the implementation of this project, the two new operational drillings E 72 and E 73 are planned. In addition, repair and improvement of the filtration characteristics of the productive intervals of seven gas storage drills will be carried out in 2015. The effect of these repairs will also contribute to increasing daily gas flow rates. The drilling is 72 and E 73 is financially secure. It is embedded in the investment and business program of the company, as well as in the 10-year plan for the development of the network of Bulgartransgaz The second project is the technology project for operation and expansion of the Chirin gas storage facility, developed in 2011 by the Czech company MND. This technology project contains the technical and economic justification for the possible reconstruction and rehabilitation of the existing and existing facilities of the site, which was developed in a separate economic part, where, on the basis of investments, operating costs and volumes of the active gas supply on the storage market in the gas storage facility, estimates of storage fees have been made for the individual developed expansion options with calculated periods of return on investment. Based on all aspects, including geological, technical, airtight, safe operation, economic evaluation, etc. and as a future optimal operating condition for expansion of the underground gas storage Chiren, the MND project offers for real a third option, which includes: increasing tank pressure to 150 bar, increasing the volume of active gas to one billion cubic metres and increasing daily productivity to 10 million cubic metres. In order to achieve these parameters, the projector calculates the amount of investments of the order of 220 million. EUR, which needs to be confirmed after the introduction of technical procedures and subsequent marketing research. Before carrying out the ten new operational drillings provided for in the project, the airtightness of the natural reservoir must be clearly demonstrated. For this purpose, the following technical procedures shall be required: First, geomechanical simulation of the Chiren tank. Second, ground gas analysis on the area of the Chiren structure. Third, conducting 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chirenska structure. Fourth, delivery of an integrated software platform for tank modelling and simulating the operation of the underground gas tank of the underground gas field Chiren and its deployment with proper hardware. Depending on the results obtained from 3D seismic research, geomechanical simulation of the gas tank and overhead gas photograph, it will proceed to increase the tank pressure, respectively, to store larger amounts of natural gas. After proof of the hermeticity of the natural reservoir, the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) provides for ten new operating drillings, which will allow increased quantities of active gas in the gas storage to one billion cubic meters. At present, the company's investment and business programme provides funds only for the conduct of the above-mentioned previous activities. Upon receipt of the results of all studies, a marketing study will be carried out to determine possible approaches for the award and construction of new operating wells depending on technological specifics and financial assurance of cash. It should also be noted that the project to expand the capacity of the gas repository in Chiren is included in the 10-year plan of the NCSP, which is one of the necessary conditions for its possible approval and financing by the European Commission. For the implementation of this project in the current year, the Bulgartransgaz is planning to conduct public procurements for geomechanical simulation of the Chiren tank for ground gas analysis on the area of the Chiren structure for conducting 3D field seismic studies, to settle the right of access of equipment and personnel to the land for carrying out 3D seismic studies, as well as to control the quality in carrying out 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chiren structure and in subsequent processing of the data obtained from seismic studies. Regarding the status of the above-mentioned public contracts, some of them have already started and others are yet to be announced. To conclude, for clarity, I would point out that the first project aims to increase the daily production and injection capacity in Chiren gas storage, while the second project is to increase the capacity for overall storage and subsequently increase the daily performance of the underground gas storage in Chiren. Drills E 72 and E 73 are part of the intended to be run by the designer MND new operating drills for which no technical testing of the Chiren fault is necessary in advance. Regarding the question you asked regarding the purchase price of the properties in which it is intended to conduct a drilling operation E 72 of the project in 2011, the previous owner was paid the amount of Bulgargaz BGN 136 858. This price is determined according to the statutory order, a licensed valuer and meets the requirements laid down in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u80	Thank you. Two lines next. Here's your first line, Mr. Bojinov, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u81	Dear Minister, I'll start backwards. The market price of agricultural land in the village of Chiren does not exceed 800 BGN. That 137,000. BGN, paid for less than 7 decares, are 32 times the market price and this is a deal and a robbery. Secondly, it was no accident that I focused on the pressure here is the disagreement between the Bulgarian side and the Czech company. You yourself pointed out that the most optimal option is 150 bar working pressure, where the experts claim that the field retains its geological hermetics. However, if the Bulgarian side recognises it, there is no way to justify the lack of 350 million normal cubic meters from the warehouse. Madam Minister, since you understand balance, I will give you a very precise, simple case. When it went from a natural field to a warehouse, there was a gas left with 22 bar pressure. The volume of this pressure makes 270 million normal cubic meters. Open the company's balance sheet, and if it says they started at 270 million, they don't lie to you. If it writes zero, it's the company's assets that are not listed in the balance sheet, and that's how it's done when it's about to be stolen. The second 98 million written off were written off in a period that worked at 96 bars, then worked at 110 bars and no losses. The Czechs say he can work at 150. If the Bulgarian side admits 150, there is no way to justify the stolen quantities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last thing I know is, why is there a public procurement drill? Because the delivery of the equipment is proportionate to the cost of drilling. When they make one drilling for a public procurement, only one comes and takes 5 million more than the poor Bulgarian people. If it's done for the ten at the same time, you'll save 50 million. There's a gas clan there, he's got his own aga, and above that aga is a tax collector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u82	Mr. Iankov, you can complete the line, but within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, there is no real interest in preserving natural gas. Why is the expansion of the gas storage facility being done and envisaged when there is really no one who has expressed interest in storing natural gas? So far, the only one that stores natural gas is Bulgargas. "Overgas" and the Greek DEPA have made an inquiry, but there are no concrete, real steps to justify the extension, which you said was 220 million as a procedure. Euros. I didn't hear an answer how this money would be recovered from the company, which makes the same costs? I'm paying attention, I don't know if you're familiar with this, but the gas station is half empty right now. Instead of the Ministry of Energy to boost the possibility of alternative ways in which to reach gas in Bulgaria, so that there are no crisis situations where we can rely only on the gas left only in the pipes from the transmission network and the gas storage, you have agreed to spend nearly half a billion leva. How will they be returned? What's the basis? Just that the company's ten-year development plan included them? In 10 years, will that money be recovered? I don't think so. In fact, we, as a state, have provided for 100% of the state ownership of a company - Bulgartransgaz -- a cost of huge funds without looking for the possibility of continuous supply; to have a South Stream -- or connections through which we can deliver gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Duplica, Minister Petkova, up to four minutes of the two lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bojinov, dear Mr. Yankov! Firstly, I would like to thank you for this question, because it is really very important and you are raising an extremely important topic not only for Bulgaria, but also for the entire region of Central and Southeast Europe. I will start with Mr. Iankov's question: why should Chiren be expanded if there is no stated interest? I believe that the expansion of our underground gas storage facility is absolutely necessary and necessary in relation to the policy that we need to conduct in terms of energy security and diversification of supply sources and natural gas supply routes. Our underground gas storage facility is also included for a reason in projects of common interest of the European Union. In relation to these 220 million. This is the value determined as a result of the study that has been drawn up. As regards this amount, Bulgartransgaz did not set aside such funds in its investment programme. From now on, given that the project is included as a project of common interest, the underground gas storage facility in Chiren to apply for funding from the European Union. These funds will in no way be at the expense of the company and at the moment they do not have and are not planning to incur such costs. As for what we are doing and why we have not taken action to provide in some way alternative natural gas supplies, I mean that this is far from the case. The Bulgarian government has taken a number of measures related precisely to diversify the sources and routes for the supply of natural gas. We have concentrated our efforts in building Bulgaria's interconnectors with our neighbouring countries. We are working very actively and at the beginning of June we are about to sign the final investment decision for the construction of the interconnector with Greece. This is the interconnector that will enable us to diversify not only the route, but also the source for the supply of natural gas, and which will enable Bulgaria to have access to gas from the Caspian region. So we haven't stopped working in that direction. With regard to the interconnector with Turkey, we have also made very serious progress. We applied and received funding in connection with the feasibility study on the Connectivity Mechanism of Europe. The funds we need for the feasibility study are 380 thousand. Euros. From the Connectivity Mechanism of Europe we received 190 thousand. Euros. On 3 April the Agreement was signed, a public contract was launched on 9 April, so we expect to choose a contractor there who can actually carry out this pre-project investment study. We are also actively working on all other interconnectors. Regarding the question Mr. Bozhino asked. Mr. Bozhinov, regarding the price for the acquisition of the six acres, I can say that this is the price set by the licensed valuer. This price has been set by the licensed valuer, so I could not now, from the distance of time, comment on whether this is the market valuation. Since the competent person has spoken, I believe that we are the rule of law and we must respect what the regulatory requirements provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u86	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I am pleased to give the floor to the MP Borislav Iglev, who will ask a question about possible sanctions against the electricity distribution companies. Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, the events in recent months have brought us to many critical moments. Floods that occurred in certain areas of the country have caused disastrous consequences to the infrastructure. A number of residents of a large number of towns and villages in Bulgaria suffered. Against the backdrop of all this, I do not stop to wonder how it is possible in these difficult moments to come to the point that people in Haskovo, who have suffered significantly from natural disasters, are left for more than a week without electricity. It is obvious that there is a problem with the electricity lines to remain so many settlements over 700, in the dark and cold, without electricity for one week. Accountability must be sought. In this regard, I ask you to answer me, has your ministry run a check on the one-week lack of electricity in over 700 settlements? Will sanctions be imposed on electricity distribution companies that offer the service in these settlements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Iglev, due to the extremely adverse combination of weather conditions between 6 and 9 March 2015, a situation has been created that has been unparalleled for days of wet snow, strong winds and temperatures below zero degrees in the past years. There are 17 areas left without electricity. In order to overcome the crisis, the necessary mobilisation was created and all state institutions took urgent measures to address the emergency situation. Company duty teams from the Ministry of Energy system received and processed real-time information about the state of the energy system. As soon as the signals for power outage were received, as Minister of Energy, I took coordination actions to control the crisis situation. On the spot were sent two of the alternate ministers for operational control and assistance of the emergency teams of the enterprises. The electricity system operator and electricity distribution companies have directed additional teams and equipment to the most affected regions. A total of over 1500 emergency teams worked on the country's territory to eliminate accidents with over 350 equipment. On the second day of March 7, 2015, from the beginning of the snowfall, the crisis headquarters of EVN Bulgaria electricity distribution AD was activated at 9.00. Indeed, on the territory of the Haskovo area mentioned in your question, the damage was serious Emergency teams from the electricity system operator and the electricity distribution company with more than 448 people and 184 equipment were mobilized to remove the accidents. On 16 March 2015 the electricity distribution for Haskovo district of all settlements and subscribers was restored on the territory of EVN. I believe that with these actions, the country's reaction was extremely rapid to overcome the consequences in the areas affected by disasters, it was timely and extremely adequate. The analysis we have done in relation to the situation that has been created shows that the main reason for the crisis situation is extremely bad metrological conditions. In this situation, which has been without precedent in the last 30 years in these areas, where in fact the most populated areas have remained powerless, I think the state has been in its place, reacting well and we cannot look guilty for the particular situation. What we did as a result of our analysis was we came to the conclusion that there is a need to change the regulations and we are now working in this direction. We are working on changing the regulation, which is related to the servers of the energy sites, as much of the problems came from fallen trees on the power lines, from broken power lines and respectively broken poles. So what we're doing is: from here on, there is an Interagency Working Group that deals entirely with changing regulations so that we can create conditions to prevent such situations from happening in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u90	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Blameing climate conditions is a little untenable. After all, we've seen snow in March and years before. Yes, indeed the snow was very much, but for years there has been talk of possible sanctioning of electricity distribution companies, but in practice this rarely happens. You have to protect the electricity consumers in Haskovo with a firm hand, because the problem that happened there a few months ago is serious. Against the backdrop of population poverty, high electricity prices should also offer high quality service. Even at critical times, the companies in question must have a plan. Since the situation clearly does not show the existence of a plan.Bs, there must be sanctions in order not to repeat the unpleasant case again. After all, a week without electricity is a long time. No phone, no electricity, it's really not a very pleasant situation for the people who live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary. [[The National Representative Georgi Bojinov spoke with MPs.]] Mr. Bojinov, I allow myself to appeal for order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Iglev, I fully agree with you that it is not at all pleasant for such a long period of time for the population to remain powerless, but I will allow myself to disagree with you and to share that I actually think it is not appropriate for some problems with time to make policy. We all remember what heavy snowfalls we were talking about and what snowfalls we've been talking about that people who live in these areas have been saying for 30 years they haven't remembered such heavy snowfalls. Believe me, we've mobilized all the power and resources, the power system operator's teams, together with power distribution teams, we've mobilized our efforts with the Ministry of Defense, with the Ministry of Interior. We worked together as a team, and I think we've dealt with the situation. Of course, there's always something to be desired. As I have already had the opportunity to share with you, we are working in this direction. What needs to be done as a change in the legal framework, which we take into account as a possible weakness, we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u94	Thank you. We move on to a question from the National Representative Alexander Metodiev about the state of the dam and in particular the hatches of the dam. Here you are, Mr. Methodiev. [[The National Representative Georgi Bojinov continues his conversation with MPs.]] Mr. Bozhinov, I appeal to you for order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Petkova, my question to you is about the state of the dam and, in particular, the locks of the dam. Iskar Reservoir is complex and significant, which is operated and operated by the company "Dams and Stunts" and is in turn part of NEK EAD. To improve the technical condition of the dam are taken care of and yet, as far as I know, the dam hatches are not in good condition. There are fundamental concerns that such facilities, which have not been opened for quite some time if they are opened if necessary, will then not be possible to close them. The worries are not only mine, but also a large part of the population that lives in the surroundings of the dam settlements. These concerns are getting even bigger in the context of the fallen amount of snow and expected increases in river levels in snowmelting. At the moment, the release of water from the dam is done only through hydro-electric plants, but not through the dam hatches. As the water level is constantly rising, it is expected to open the hatches. In this regard, my questions to you, Madam Minister, are as follows: What is the technical condition of the hatches and other overflowing facilities of the dam? Is their safe technical operation guaranteed, and if there are risks in this regard, what preventive measures will you take to prevent an emergency? What is the technical condition of the dam of the dam? What measures are currently being taken to control the high waters generated by snow melting, and what is intended to be done when the situation worsens?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Methodiev. For an answer Mrs. Petkova, Minister of Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Methodiev, first of all I would like to thank you for this question. I can assure you that the safety, technical operation of the dam and its relief facilities are in the focus of the attention of all responsible institutions, including the management of the Ministry of Energy. This year was found the highest boiling volume in the dam in 25 years. The level of the dam is constantly controlled, such as the daily establishment of the dams and stunts and the National Electric Company publishes information about the state of the dams and provides it to the institutions concerned. The estimates made at the beginning of the year showed that the dam is likely not to have the necessary free volume to absorb the expected inflow during the spring snowfall period, which would create a danger for the dam to overflow. Due to the small passage of the Iskar River, this could lead to flooding of settlements and infrastructure. In relation to the situation created on 25 February 2015, a letter was sent by the Ministry of Energy to the institutions involved in order to alert the possible threat. I would like to assure you that this is another time where there is a good inter-agency organisation and excellent mobilisation and interaction between the responsible institutions. On 13 March 2015, by order of the Prime Minister, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established for the controlled release and provision of additional free volume at the dam. A coordination group was subsequently formed with representatives of the institutions involved, and on the basis of the programme it approved, the water volumes from the bottom up began to be released from the dam of Pancharevo, the dam of Kokalyanene and finally the dam of Iskar. During the time of release of water volumes specialized units were involved in the Department of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and the Regional Administrations and Sofia Municipality for secession and observation of all problematic sections along the river. Employees of the enterprise "Dams and stunts" observed the river up to 500 meters after the dams "Iskar" and "Cockalane." The implementation of these measures shows that the leaking facilities of the dam work without problems. The actual conduction of the riverbed has also been proven. On 27 March 2015, an Expert Technical Council of NEK was held, on which the enterprise "Dairies and Stunts" presented a report, an analysis of the technical condition and the operational suitability of the dam "Iskar" and its facilities. The conclusions are that the dam and its facilities can be operated without restriction. The measures taken, the forecasts and estimates made by the experts from the National Electric Company's system show that there is no real danger of harmful effects of high waters generated by snow melting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u98	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Come in for a line, Mr. Methodiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u99	Dear Minister Petkova, I forgot to thank you for the quick reaction you responded with your order to release the water after my signal at the entrance of my inquiry into the Ministry. Thank you. My concern is that the discharge of the waters of the dam was carried out only through the same hatch. That's what I've been watching myself for a week. My concern is why the other three airlocks weren't opened. What's the status of these hatches? Is it not possible for them to be opened in an emergency? That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u100	Thank you. That was actually a line. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Metodiev, as I had the opportunity to share in the answer, was prepared a very detailed analysis by the enterprise "Dams and Stunts" in the National Electric Company in relation to the questions you have asked. The analysis showed in a firm way that the dam and its facilities, for which the National Electric Company is practically responsible and responsible, are in perfect condition. So there is no basis for concern regarding the other two airlocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u102	Thank you, Minister Petkova. We move on to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov concerning companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Energy, which had funds in the Corporate Commercial Bank. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The unraveling of the KTB affair goes through transparency. Only transparency will show us who are responsible and involved. The most obvious question to which we do not have a public answer is the state money held in CCB. On a question I asked Minister of Finance Goranov, I was given a list of state-owned enterprises that held money in KTB, amounting to a total of about 247 million. lv. Makes the impression that the longest list is in the energy sector. This is about the Bulgarian Energy Holding, NEC, NEC, the Energy System Operator, Mini Dear Minister, you are the principal of all these companies, that is to say they are directly subordinate to you, ultimately as Minister of Energy. Therefore, my specific question to you is: it is only fair that this money is state money for my, your and all Bulgarian citizens, to find out what kind of money each such company has held in KTB. Every single one of them, and at what rate? So each company kept what kind of money in CCB, and each one at what rate? The reasonable doubt I have is that the interest was two times lower than the same companies, only from the private sector. The doubt I have is that too often this money has been held almost without interest on a payment account for years. But doubts are one thing and facts are another. That's why I'm addressing you. Today we need facts. It is our government that must be what is clearly telling the truth about CCB and thus opens the door to bear responsibility. Because for each of these state-owned companies, my next question, which I will ask you in the future, will be: who authorized this money to be held in this bank? Who made the decision? Who gave the consent? How did this happen? So I'm asking you for the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u104	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, really very relevant question. I will try to be as specific and clear as possible in my response. The total amount of cash at the Corporate Commercial Bank of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the subsidiaries listed amounted to 132 million. 839 thousand. lv. In particular, for the holding itself: the total amount of the payment accounts in CCB amounts to 44 million. 73,000. BGN, at the time of placing the bank under special supervision. Following the conclusion of mission contracts with the subsidiaries, the TPP is estimated to be up to 14 million. Seven hundred and twenty-one In this operation, the Bulgarian Energy Holding quoted its claims from the CCB to the designated subsidiaries in amounts equal to their liabilities to the bank. The choice of this bank was made on the basis of internal rules for the selection of a banking institution and approved by the Board of Directors of the company. In CCB, the net exposure does not exceed 25% of the money of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. On 20 June 2014, Kozloduy NPP had money in CCB of 4 million. 618 thousand. BGN 325. at an interest rate of 1,25%, excluding US dollar funds, which is 65 thousand. BGN 169, that's their left-hand equivalent, and a 19,000 credit card. BGN 861. In implementation of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 127 of 27 May 2013 a procedure under the Public Procurement Act was opened and contracts with 13 banking and credit institutions were concluded. As of 30 June 2014, the net concentration requirement was met. The net exposure is 7,31% of the company's cash. As of 20 June 2014, the National Electricity Company had cash in balance equivalent to the CCB's payment accounts of 14 million. 724 thousand. 361 BGN, with interest on the different accounts not exceeding 2%. The company has a contract with the bank following a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. The choice of a bank was approved by a decision of the Board of Directors which was sent for coordination with the sole owner of the capital. As of 30 June 2014, the company complied with the provisions of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 127 of May 2013. As of 20 June 2014, the electricity system operator's cash in the Corporate Commercial Bank amounted to 3 million. 803 thousand. £110. According to the various types of accounts and the duration of the deposits made, interest rates range from 0.7 to 4%. A corporate commercial bank has been selected as a servicing bank under the Public Procurement Act by means of a public invitation. The contract is concluded for a period of one year. The company complied with the requirement of net concentration. The funds were available at the Corporate Commercial Bank, amounting to 222 thousand. 951 BGN, as well as funds in euros "9 thousand." 778 euros, and in US dollars The company has funds in trust bank accounts of a total of 17 million. 798 thousand. BGN 443 opened for the benefit of the Ministry of Economy and Energy under a concession contract for extraction of lignite. The company did not have any deposit funds at the Corporate Commercial Bank. In addition, the Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does 294 thousand. 864 euros in principal. The rules for the concentration of cash according to Decree No 27 of the Council of Ministers are respected. As of 20 June 2014 at the TPP, Maritsa Iztok 2 $20,000. BGN 354. In the different accounts, the interest is 1%, and in a special account serving as collateral to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the interest is 4.1%. As of 30 June 2014, the net exposure to CCB shall not exceed 25%. There was money available in CTB 16 million in Bulgargaz. 501,000. 135 BGN, funds in euro 413 thousand 375 leva equivalent and US dollars 169 thousand. 751 leva equivalent. According to the type of accounts and type of deposit, the interest varies from 0,1 to 1.75%. The company did not comply with the net concentration requirement. There was an available funds at the Corporate Commercial Bank of 30 million in Bulgartransgaz. Seventy-eight thousand. BGN 925 as well as money in EUR 5 million 531 thousand. 481 euros and USD 9 million. 929 thousand. $893. Under a signed contract with the bank for financial service, the company administers one-year deposits in BGN at an interest rate of 5,6%. The selection of a bank was carried out following a procedure under the procedure of the ZOP and under the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 127 and decided by the Board of Directors of Bulgartransgaz. The company did not comply with the requirements for net cash concentration in a bank. The net exposure exceeds 25% of the company's cash. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u106	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u107	Madam Minister, thank you for your specific answer. It is in this way that responsibility can be sought and people can understand what happened at KTB. I repeat the most important things to ask my further question. A total of around 132 million. lv. State energy was in KTB. By listening, the average interest rate is between 1.5 and 2%. You, Madam Minister, and you fellow Members, heard of preferential deposits that reached 9 "10 " 12%, and the money of the state-owned enterprises was held at 1 " 2% interest, as two state-owned enterprises I listened to you carefully, you, Mrs Minister, because of the many facts you spoke a little quickly, but two state-owned enterprises were under the impression that they did not meet the requirements for the de "Bulgargaz" EAD and the "Bulgartransgaz" EAD, for which the requirement was not met under 25% of the money to be in one bank. I mean, it's a double loss for the budget. On this basis, Madam Minister, I also refer to you as the former Chairman of ADPI. For me, ADFI has to get into these businesses and do a background check. In fact, some requirements have been formally met. I wonder, everyone knew that KTB was giving interest rate 9.10 percent and up. How come there wasn't one in all state-owned companies with similar interest on the ones you said? There wasn't one, even if it was about paying bills. Why would they keep their money on a checking account for years so there wouldn't be any interest? So it is only right that ADFIs, who should check the Bulgarian energy as well under another law, do a thorough check on how all this happened and not turn out that there was a way for the difference in interest to be paid to certain persons. I wonder if that's possible. So once again, I admire your specific answers, but I believe that people who are heads of state enterprises and have potentially lost millions of our money to Bulgarian taxpayers must first be fired if such people are still standing, Minister, and have invested state money in CCB and, secondly, AFFI must check how all this happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u108	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, as a person who starts from financial control, I always admire the checks as a personal form of trust and as a guarantee that things have happened under the law. As I mentioned in my reply, only one of the companies in the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the choice of a bank has not taken place after a public procurement contract, as the Bulgarian Energy Holding does not fall among the public procurement entities within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. Public procurement has been carried out for all other companies. What I am going to ask my colleagues from the Agency for State and Financial Inspection, respectively, is to examine the legality of public procurement for the selection of a banking institution and the execution of the contract accordingly. That is what I think colleagues could check and rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u110	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski concerning the danger of landslides in the mines of Kremikovtsi. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is in connection with the descent of land masses in the pits of Kremikovtsi (Kremikovtsi) in the territory of the Sofia Municipality. A selective area from which I am a Member of the National Assembly. Dear Minister! Since August 2011, water supply has not been carried out in the facility. The rising water level poses a danger of landslides for the nearby district of Kremikovtsi, which has been repeatedly notified to the Ministry of Economy and Energy, as well as the Ministry of Environment and Water. As of February 2015, the level of water in the mine reached a peak of 518 m, continuing to rise on average by 1 m. The depth is 70 m and the volume of water is over 12 million. Cube. m. The site is being investigated by the state company "Geosaprotita" Ltd. of Pernik and is included in the register of landslides, which they observe, under No. Sof 46.68 134-09. The opinion of the Geosa protection company is that a waterfall must be carried out to ensure the stability of the surfaces, sites and boards of the field and to prevent landslides in the area of the settlement. The ownership of the properties in the mine is distributed between private, state and municipal. Under the Water Act, the obligation to maintain water level safety belongs to property owners that they do not clearly do. In Sofia Municipality in August 2011 was held an expert meeting on the problems arising as a result of the suspended water supply in the area of the mine. "Kremikovtsi" with representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism, Sofia City, Sofia Municipality, Department of Fire Safety and Population Protection. Even then, it has been found that stopping water draw from the mine will cause significant and difficult damage to the residents around the field of Kremikovtsi. However, follow-up action to prevent the problem has not been taken. In the following years, the Initiative Committee of Sq. "Kremikovtsi" has repeatedly referred to all interested state and municipal authorities as to the real danger of landslides in the area of pits of Kremikovtsi. Until now, despite the many requests and warnings by the Initiative Committee, the institutions have not taken any serious action to prevent the possible disaster. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On 10 October 2014 a constant protocol of on-the-spot verification was drawn up by the locality of Kremikovtsi with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Energy and representatives of the Initiative Committee of Kremikovtsi with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Energy. The Kremikovtsi. The Commission has made visible circus descents on the northern eastern board of the mine, which once again confirms the trend of an uncontrolled rise in water levels in the coal mine. The impact of landslides gives reason to provide that if an active emergency water supply from the boiler is not started as soon as possible, we can expect the activation of dangerous landslide processes that pose an unjustified risk to life and property of the population of the quarter. The Kremikovtsi. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: have any action been taken in the last few months by the Ministry of Energy as the principal of a mine pit "Kremikovtsi" to find a solution to this serious problem and what immediate action you will take to protect the health and life of the residents of the district. The Kremikovtsi, near the mine pit, the Kremikovtsi?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u112	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Svilensky! Rudnik "Kremikovtsi" was developed by the "Kremikovtsi" JSC, currently in bankruptcy, whose concession for the locality of "Kremikovtsi" was ended by a decision of the Council of Ministers in 2004. Thus, in 2011 the water flow systems from the coal mine for the extraction of surface and groundwater collected in the mining body were finally stopped, thus starting at a constant rate. As an object is entered in the specialized register of landslides under heading 46.68 134-09, it is possible, if the facility is not drained, to increase the level of water to the extent that landslide processes can be activated. As early as 2010, the find was granted again to a concession for extraction and the new concession contract for the concessionaire provided for a special obligation to carry out a water discharge in the coal mine. The main part of the area of the concessionated locality is located in property. A small part of the coal mine in the eastern part of the land is situated on the property of state property. As early as the end of 2011, the concessionaire informed and provided written evidence that it could not reach an agreement with the owner of the private property, in view of which it was objectively prevented from putting the site into operation and the drainage of the mine. He has declared readiness for partial introduction of the site into operation within the property of state property, where the water flow from the coal mine will lead to a reduction of the water level to the border with the neighbouring private land estate. The Ministry has agreed on a project for this partial commissioning. Upon completion of the process of property separation between the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Tourism, action will also be taken to establish a property right to use in favour of the concessionaire on the state land estate. There is also correspondence with the district governor of Sofia for the faster settlement of the issue of the granting of property rights for the implementation of concession activities and watering down in this property. Meanwhile, the amendment to the water level in the boiler is subject to constant control by experts of the Ministry of Energy. Local landslides are currently found along the eastern and northern ford of the mine, but they are caused by surface water erosion and are not related to the flooding of the boiler. In view of the need to take urgent preventive action to reduce the potential risk of landslide processes and harmful effects of water found in the mine pit of Kremikovtsi. At the end of 2012, the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism initiated the construction of control and measurement systems for monitoring in the mine pit of Kremikovtsi with funds allocated by the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. The project is complete and the system is accepted for monitoring and measurements. A month ago, we submitted a draft decree of the Council of Ministers to approve additional costs for preventing, controlling and overcoming the consequences of disasters, which includes a decision to grant the sum of 20 thousand. 500 leva. for the preparation of a project for emergency water flow from the coal mine boiler of Kremikovtsi. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u114	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a cue, the public representative Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, although I asked the question two months ago, I expected action to date that would actually lead to a reduction in the level and safety of the residents, because of what you said, if they had listened to it, I do not believe that they would be more relaxed about their houses and their lives. So my request is urgent that you take action for safety. From then on, the governor, the Ministry, the decree, so that things are resolved that people don't worry about property and most importantly about their lives. Because if, God forbid, anything happens from now on, the responsibility will be ours and yours, as I ask the question, you answer the question now it has been transferred between me and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u116	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky, I fully share your concern. Believe me, no less worried and we at the Ministry of Energy are concerned. As I had the opportunity to mention, in practice this site has some property problems. It is about a property which is mostly private property, which creates additional difficulties with regard to its use and restraint. What I can assure you is that the Ministry of Energy is exercising continuous control. So we have taken the necessary action, we have also tabled a draft decision of the Council of Ministers to provide targeted funds specifically for there so that we can solve this problem. Everything that depends on the Ministry of Energy, I assure you, will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u118	Thank you, Minister Petkova. With your participation in today's parliamentary control, you have fulfilled your constitutional obligations to answer questions and questions of MPs. Thank you and have a good job! We move on to responses from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. The first question will be asked by the national representative Slavcho Atanasov about the Plovdiv Airport. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u119	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Plovdiv Airport is an important infrastructure site for both the city of Plovdiv and the South Central region. The opening of year-round regular lines, which began in 2010, proved the potential of the city and the region for the development of the airport. In the last year and a half, there has been a particular accumulation of adverse results resulting from inadequate personnel decisions. Is it true that as a result of the work of this asset for a year and a half, the following results were obtained: - no work has been added, i.e. additional flights; - the financial loss for 2014 is set to be 1 million. $100,000. lv. compared to 100 thousand BGN for 2012; - the opening of any of the lines has not been finalized.. Bursa, Istanbul, Cyprus and Spain, agreed by the previous management; - the current suspension of the currently operating lines to London and Frankfurt is expected due to the huge 1 million liabilities of the airport development fund to the airline Ryan Air. - Full use of the buffer amount of about 800 thousand. BGN left by the previous management in the accounts of the company. Escalating serious social tension among airport workers. The poor financial situation of the company led to the suspension of wages. The result of all these will be the destruction of Plovdiv airport as a very important infrastructure for the city of Plovdiv and Plovdiv district, as well as for the South Central region. Dear Minister, my question to you is this: is it true that Plovdiv Airport will be granted a concession?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u120	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. For an answer, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, in relation to your question, I provide the following information about the main activity of the company. The number of flights at a civil airport for public use in Plovdiv is 3 thousand in 2013. 657 or 12.8% less compared to 2012, when the aircraft movements were 4193. The serviced passengers in 2013 at Plovdiv airport were 92 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission therefore concludes that there is no need for State aid to distort competition and affect trade between Member States and In 2013, 182 tonnes of cargo were processed at Plovdiv airport, unlike 2012, when 564 tonnes of cargo were processed, with a decrease of more than 67% of the goods processed. The number of aircraft movements at the civil airport for public use Plovdiv in 2014 was 2643 flights or 27.7% less than in 2013, when the aircraft movements were 3657. The serviced passengers in 2014 were 103 thousand. 292 passengers showing an increase of about 12,2% compared to 2013. In 2014 554 tonnes of freight were processed at Plovdiv airport, unlike 2013, when 182 tonnes were processed, which showed an increase in the goods processed. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Plovdiv Airport is of a marked charter nature with air traffic services mainly during the winter period. According to the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. A growth rate of 6% is noted. All payments to Plovdiv Airport are made through the budget of the Directorate General for Air Administration, which is a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The total amount paid in 2014 amounted to 2 million. $25,000. BGN 178 and payments in 2015 amounted to 339 thousand. BGN 958. It is necessary to take into account that Plovdiv Airport is a commercial company and not a budgetary officer. This means that airport management must seek a place in the aviation service market, rely on revenues from its own business and not on budget. This is also the idea set out in a Commission communication on State aid to airports and airlines. Plovdiv Airport works with an optimized structure. The increase in staff is in connection with an amendment to the Civil Aviation Act in force and the Rules for Implementation of the Ministry of Interior Act, on the basis of which security checks carried out by Border Police until 2011, are already carried out by airport security personnel. In recent months, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications held a number of meetings with the management of the company aimed at identifying a package of measures to outline a clear vision for the development of the future prospects of Plovdiv Airport. The main market targets for the development of the company are concentrated in the direction of increasing traffic in all its directions, aircraft movements, number of passengers served, tons of cargo. In cargo flights, the intentions are to conquer market positions in some of the technical landings, as they are attractive from the point of view that they generate revenue without the need to place a large number and volume of equipment and human labour. In business flights, the aim is to maintain the level achieved and to seek prerequisites for increasing the number of flights. The management of the company is in constant search for better coordination between Plovdiv Airport and tour operators in South Central region. In parallel with the short-term measures listed above, in the medium term, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has an idea to offer Plovdiv Airport on concession. We expect an investment plan from a potential investor to come within a very short time. I can tell you that the airport has been shown interest by companies both from the region and from further countries, and I am referring to China, so I sincerely hope that the investment interest is serious. What depends on us will be done as analyses so that a good deal can be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u122	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u123	Thank you, Minister, for being thorough in your response. I am grateful to you for telling the truth from the platform of the National Assembly that Plovdiv Airport is intended to be granted a concession. A year and a half ago, I had stated at the Municipal Council of Plovdiv that Plovdiv Airport is going towards concession or privatisation. I'm practically right in a year and a half. It is a pity because six years ago the State gave over 42 million for this airport. lv. The airport has excellent working conditions. The track can land even the heavyest planes, including bowling alleys. The airport is a great infrastructure. I am wondering how it can, with a wonderful infrastructure that is currently around Plovdiv Airport and the airport itself, provide it in private hands. It's like the country is breaking up with the hen that lays the golden eggs. I was convinced that it would come to this because of the extremely weak personnel policy at Plovdiv Airport...................................................................................... It's just that in the last four years, the airport has turned into a party feeder and the results have not been late. The state will soon be separated from a wonderful site that instead of managing and profiting from it, it will be granted a concession to a private investor who will use Plovdiv Airport to accumulate funds in its company. Thank you for being honest and open, you said what is hanging around Plovdiv and surrounding cities, that the airport will part with its state property and move into private hands, which I and many people in the city do not approve of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u124	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u125	Mr. Atanasov, I will allow myself to disagree with certain findings of your speech. First, the airport will not go into private hands, it remains state property. Second, when granting a concession, the State will continue to win as it will receive concession fees from potential operators. It is no secret and we have never hidden that airport and port infrastructure due to the limited budget of the Structural Funds from the European Union is not able to finance them either with a state budget or to use part of these Structural Funds, as they basically go to railways and roads, so that the concept and policy implemented by the Ministry of Transport is precisely airport and port infrastructures to be developed by attracting private capital. The practice throughout Europe is such, I can't even think of a country where it is an airport operator but attracts international large operators. Specifically for Plovdiv I am ready to give you immediately the investment intention, when it comes, to meet you. It is about the third largest operator in China, who is sure that if he is really interested and applies for the concession procedure for Plovdiv, it will certainly bring much more added value to both the city and the business itself and to the airport itself than the state could afford at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 13.35, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We continue at 2:05 p.m. with a question from the MP Petar Slavov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u127	Dear colleagues, here we go! Here you go, Mr. Moskovsky. Question from the National Representative Petar Slavov on unregulated requirements for drivers in carrying out an annual technical examination by certain workshops. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question really concerns some unregulated requirements that some workshops carrying out an annual technical examination allow themselves to place on drivers and, in practice, to make additional requirements to them and refuse to carry out the technical examination they should carry out. Dear Minister, with the amendment in art. 60, para. 6 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, as a condition for the regularity of the annual technical examination of a vehicle is the payment of the local tax for it. I received a number of signals from citizens that in their application for an annual technical examination from some of the points they were asked for, I quote: a wet stamp by the municipality claiming the payment of the tax. At the same time, a printout from the electronic account of the debtor in the municipality concerned, certifying the regular payment of all local taxes due, including the vehicle tax, or a payment document certified by the bank to pay the amount due to the local budget, has not been accepted as regular documents and these people have been returned. It should be noted that such interpretation by authorised workshops carrying out an annual technical review of the provision of art. 60, para. 6 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees is incorrect, since the provision does not refer anywhere to a certification or at all to a stamp by a municipal authority, whether it is a wet person or any other seal. The latter also does not correspond to the priorities for e-government and e-government of the current cabinet as enshrined in the Programme Declaration of Reformation. In fact, art. 60, para. 6 says that a document issued or certified by the municipality should be presented. And nothing more. In the light of the above, Mr Minister, please answer the following question: Do you think that the Ministry should take measures and what will they be for the exact and clear compliance of the Law by the points for carrying out an annual technical examination, including for not introducing unacceptable additional requirements for conscientious citizens, certifying payment of the tax with an electronically generated payment document or extract from the debtor's account in the municipality concerned? Will you introduce a mechanism for sending signals and reactions against such untrue practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u129	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, give me the case and I will issue an immediate inspection. If there is an unauthorised requirement for such documents, penalties will be imposed immediately accordingly. As you quoted, according to art. 60, para. 6 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the payment of the vehicle tax is a condition for regularity in the annual technical examination of the vehicle. The payment of the tax shall be certified by the granting of a document issued or certified by the municipality. In order to make it easier for citizens to improve the quality of the service in carrying out the reviews and to achieve a higher collection of vehicle taxes by Ordinance No H-32 of 2011 on periodic tests for the testing of road vehicles' technicality, the information system for electronic recording of periodic inspections carried out to ensure automatic verification of the existence of paid vehicle tax was established. In fulfilling the requirement of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in art. 30, para. 1, t. 4 and para. 4 and 5 of Regulation No H-32 it is determined that the periodic review of the vehicle provides a document of paid vehicle tax due on the day on which the periodic review was carried out or a document that was exempt from road transport tax issued on the basis of the Local Taxes and Fees Act. The documents must be marked or marked for unique identification through the information system. The documents cited shall only be required when no confirmation is obtained in the automatic inspection that no vehicle tax is due. The Executive Agency has a contract to build infrastructure to provide an integrated platform for the automatic verification of the vehicle tax obligation. At present, the periodic review information system has been upgraded as: First, there is a technical possibility for an automatic verification of the absence or existence of tax obligations on vehicles. During periodic inspections, it is necessary for the municipality concerned to provide a technically compatible information system and access to the vehicle taxes database. The Executive Agency of Automobile Administration has built the platform. Where it does not function, it is simply necessary that the municipality itself has a compatible information system. A trilateral contract has been prepared between municipalities and the contractor of the contract and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, which must be signed by the three countries separately. Secondly, it is technically possible for the periodic review information system to carry out a unique identification of the paid vehicle tax document. Stickers. The Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration has established the model of the elements for marking the documents. They're stickers. They contain protection against counterfeiting and a unique number, readable by the information system. We have the assurance from the contractor that, upon request by the municipalities, stickers can be delivered to them. Their price is symbolic, about three pennies per sticker without VAT. In order to achieve greater collection of taxes on vehicles and to comply with the requirements of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for the verification of the tax obligations of vehicles and regulations, the following options are provided. First, only an electronic check for the absence of tax liabilities. Secondly, only the marking of a document for the paid tax is a means of transport and the documents for the exemption from the obligation to pay such a tax. Third, an electronic verification of the absence of tax obligations for vehicles, where data are not available or are not integrated with this database. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , for taxes due and data on persons exempt from tax, the document proving the absence of tax obligations must be marked with a sticker by the municipality concerned, which I said. At present, the following data are available regarding the implementation of the requirements of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. I can read them, but they're long. They contain the contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u131	You can give them to Mr. Slavov in writing. Here you are, Mr. Slavov. Do you have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I, first of all, would like to thank you for the willingness you have stated on the specific signal to carry out an inspection and take action, so I suppose the people who have contacted me will provide such information and I can further provide it to you. But what was more interesting than your answer and what I liked much more was what you said about the automatic inspection and at all about this automation, which apparently the Ministry and the Automobile Administration were working on. And it seems to me that in this direction the efforts should be directed both yours and in general the administration you are in charge of. Moreover, at the moment, as far as I know, an automatic data exchange system has been established between the points of annual technical examination and the Automobile Administration............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, this system, if I understood you correctly, is in the process of upgrade or has already been upgraded and in practice by the Automobile Administration and these points for an annual technical examination, these workshops could receive information as to whether the relevant taxes for the vehicle in question have been paid and people should not be harassed and returned. Here I really hope that you will meet an understanding of the municipalities, they will submit data in a timely manner to the Automobile Administration, so that it can be accessible to all the workshops carrying out an annual technical review, and in a truly European and modern way that people can do their job, rather than dealing with wet stamps, stickers and similar past century old ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u133	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Come on in for your douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u134	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Slavov, just one supplement. Based on the reference I have, I just want to inform you that at the moment, there are a number of 364 municipalities in the country that are compatible already integrated information systems in 189. So the process is on track and I hope that this will be over in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yavor Haytov, Vice-President of the National Assembly, on behalf of the BDZ Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I allow myself, honourable colleagues, to inform you that dear guests today at our meeting are the children from the Cyril and Methodius School of Education and Mezdra, Vratsa District. It is good that the Minister of Transport is also here because Mezdra is a railway city with traditions in transport. And since I said "Vratsa", honourable colleagues, as elected MP from 6.Multimate Vrachanski region, I take the liberty of inviting you: come on June 1st evening from 20:00 p.m. in the square "Hristo Botev" where we can honor the memory of Hristo Botev and pay tribute to his feat. For the Vrachan public, it would be an honor and a pleasure to be your hosts. I hope that on the next day on June 2nd, on Mount Okoltitsa all together, of all parliamentary groups, we will offer a wrist flower to the monument of Hristo Botev and his lobby because there are controversial and undisputed things, but it is true that these are heroes of Bulgarian history that unite us. And I say to you once again: we expect you and thank you in advance. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u137	Thank you, Mr. Haytov, for inviting me. Question from the National Representative Georgi Stratilov Svilenski on the conclusion of a contract by "Bulgarian Posts" without public procurement. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, although my question is asked on 25 March this year, he also, at this time, two months later, I think it is sufficiently relevant. Mr. Minister, this is about the famous contract of the Bulgarian Post Office. The Bulgarian Post Office is one of the largest enterprises in Bulgaria with more than 11 thousand. 500 employees, yet he relies on outside companies for the Incasian transportation of money and shipments, paying for it about 15 million. lv. Annually. In March this year the current security contract was concluded and at least three months earlier a new contract for the security of postal items should have been announced, but the procedure has been delayed. This leads to a negotiation without a notice with the company "VIP Securities." The Executive Director of the Bulgarian Post Office has started a public procurement procedure only on 4 February 2015, i.e. two months before the end of the contract of the other company. Two complaints were submitted against the opening decision, one being from the National Association of Individuals and Private Security Associations and two proceedings were initiated by the Commission for Protection of Competition. The director of the Bulgarian Post Office is justified by the fact that the company was elected after a recommendation of experts from the industry. Dear Minister, when I asked the question, I asked: is the contract signed? To date, it is clear that the contract has been signed, but my question to you is: to say who is responsible for this delay in the announcement of the contract? Has a new contract been announced to date? And do you support this way of conclusion of contracts in any company, including in the Bulgarian Post Offices (Bulgarian Post Offices) without a public contract, in direct negotiation, although it is perhaps 40-50 million in the four years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, I will allow myself a correction, an inexactness in your question, you said at least three months before the end of the old contract that it should be filed, but the Law says "sixth." When you go back from March six months ago, you get the specific answer to your question. The management of the Bulgarian Post Office is responsible..... six months minus March.... during the office. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There was a contract for security of his property in the transport of valuable shipments and postal goods. The contract was concluded as a result of a procedure under the Decree on the award of special public contracts. The contractor of the contract was "ASCO-Pirelli" Ltd. Unfortunately, I note that there is indeed a delay in declaring this procedure. By the end of November, when the new leadership of the Bulgarian Post Office was appointed, there were no documentation prepared for the implementation of the procedure, nor did it start. Regardless of the urgent measures taken by the new management of the Company to overcome and catch up on the delay in announcing the procedure, the remaining period is not sufficient. Even the possibility of continuing the contract with the old contractor is lost. This option is settled as an exception in art. 43 of the Public Procurement Act. As I said, it should have been six months, and so by law, before the expiry of the contract period, the contracting authority had opened a procedure with the same subject of activity that ended with the choice of contractor. In practice, this requires that, at the end of September, the contracting authority has opened a procedure which has not, however, been opened at this time. The procedure was opened at the beginning of March 2015, but was suspended because of an appeal against the Company's decision to open it. Two complaints were filed, as you said. By Decision No 266 of 24 March 2015, the Commission for the Protection of Competition did not respect the complaints lodged on grounds of unfounded grounds. The Commission's decision on competition has not entered into force because it is subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. In the case of the expiry of the contract, the contract with the current contractor cannot continue until the conclusion of a new contract and, subject to strict compliance with the legal provisions, a negotiated procedure has been opened without a notice. That procedure has been chosen because, firstly, there is no possibility of extending the contract period of the current contractor, as I said. Second, there is objectively no possibility that the negotiated procedure announced by a notice could end by the expiry of the contract in force with the same subject-matter, namely 1 April 2015. Thirdly, it is necessary for the contracting authority to take urgent action to protect the property. Without a contract with a contractor, the contracting entity will remain without physical security and without transportation of valuable consignments and incasso. This will significantly undermine the public interest and the contracting entity will not be able to guarantee the performance of its legally assigned functions and licence. Fourth, the Bulgarian Post Office has a binding obligation to perform the universal postal service. This is a service that is performed continuously within a specified working time, with a quality that complies with the relevant regulations. It is made at affordable prices and opportunity for its use by each user. Fifthly, the Bulgarian Post Office has a very significant role to play in this process, as the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners are paid by the post offices of residence or residence of the pensioners. All of these are arguments that forced the management of the Bulgarian Post Office to resort to this procedure, with one additional clarification, I have explicitly read in the beginning that it is a special procurement that has been made before. It is made with an opinion from the DANS. For this procedure, it was therefore declared open, which was appealed, there is no such opinion from the SANS. So it's assumed that this is an absolutely normal order, like everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u142	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. I will try to take these six months back in two minutes to see who was responsible for these decisions and who did or had the idea to do such damage either to the Bulgarian Post Office or to the state. Six months before the end of the Prime Minister's term, Prime Minister Georgi Bliznashki, on whom the main task was to make elections, and not to change the leadership of the Bulgarian Post Office, his first job is to change the Director of the Bulgarian Post Office and to appoint Mr. Stanislav Dochev as Director, if I am not mistaken the name. This is the person who should have taken action to announce the contract within this six-month period, for which what you later explained is happening. When you become a minister, this man is being replaced and placed a new CEO, who I say that if he wanted to, it might have been a little faster, but in those deadlines he wasn't able to move the procedure forward anyway. From then on, you are right with the arguments that this is a very responsible activity, that you need to master all things. I ask the question: why is this executive director Stanislav Dochev, who is the culprit for delaying the order, which was in all televisions and newspapers, re-appointed at the Bulgarian Post Office as director? In other words, the culprit whom you have pointed out is not me who is currently working as director in the Bulgarian Post Office. And if you don't know it, Mr. Minister, the only move I think you can make from this day forward is for this director to be released by tonight, as someone patronizes this delay of the order. If he was guilty of not doing his job, I don't see why you should stand with your name and authority behind the back of a person who caused such damage to the Bulgarian Post Office. If you don't know that, then at least the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Post Office. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Dejan Duneshki should know that. I expect action from now on against those who have caused this delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u143	Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u144	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'm making a full commitment. It's actually the first time I've heard this gentleman perform some sort of leadership function. I know the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Post Office. I don't know what level he's on, probably somewhere in the administration. I'm sorry about that thing. This is the first time I've heard that this man is in a post office in the Post Office. I'll take the necessary precautions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Question from MP Petar Vladislavov Slavov concerning companies with state participation, whose principal is the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which had funds in the Corporate Commercial Bank. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Earlier today, we were able to hear the answer to such a question addressed to the Minister of Energy, which was very detailed. I hope that we will also now hear detailed information about which companies from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications system actually held large amounts of money and under what conditions in KTB. Dear Minister, in response to a parliamentary question to the Minister of Finance regarding his new powers under art. 12a of the Bankruptcy Act, I was informed that the following state-owned companies, whose principal is the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, had a significant number of funds in CCB at the time of its placing under special supervision: - State-owned railway infrastructure; - State-owned undertaking - "Port of Burgas" EAD; - Port complex of - Service of the Ministry of Education; - State-owned enterprise "Communication and Recovery" - "Български потългарски поти" ЕАД; - "Sofia Airport" EAD; - "Varna Port" EAD; - State-owned enterprise Port Infrastructure. As regards the amount of funds and the authority on whose decision these amounts have been deposited in the CCB, the Minister of Finance indicated that this information should be required by the portfolio ministry. In practice, he also referred to the banking secret, which was applicable in the case of the question referred to him, as he was drawing his information from the Quaestors and temporary Syndicates of the CCB. I hope you have received directly those enterprises whose principal you are, and there should be virtually no applicability to banking secrecy. In view of the above, Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: which companies with State participation, including those listed above, to which the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is a principal, had funds in the CCB, in what amount, at which rate, and by decision of which body of the company, and please specify, and whether Order No 127 of the Council of Ministers has been implemented with regard to the maximum amount of funds that can be concentrated in a bank, the so-called Order for the 25 per cent discharge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u147	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, according to Decree No 127 of 27 May 2013 of the Council of Ministers, companies and state enterprises from the system of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications elect a financial institution to serve them. In order to prevent the concentration of cash in one financial institution of the depositors with a book value of more than 3 million cash. BGN, their net exposure to one credit or financial institution shall not exceed 25 percent of their total cash. The terms and procedure for selecting financial institutions are laid down in the Order cited above and the conclusion, amendment and termination of contracts itself is part of the company's operational management. In accordance with the decree on the website of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications by the end of the month following the reporting quarter, information on state-owned enterprises and commercial companies with over 50 percent State participation in capital and companies controlled with a balance sheet value of more than 3 million funds shall be published. lv. and net exposure to one bank over 25 percent. In this respect, I inform you that as of 30 June 2014. 11 of the commercial companies and state-owned enterprises of the Ministry's system had opened accounts in the Corporate Commercial Bank. The total amount of the cash on the accounts amounted to 43 million. Twenty-seven thousand. BGN 379. Commercial companies and state-owned enterprises that had accounts in the company Corporate Commercial Bank "AD" are as follows: National Company "Railway Infrastructure", BDZ "Training Services" JSC, Airport Sofia "AD," State Enterprise "Air Traffic Guide", Port of Burgas "EAD," Port complex "Ruse", Port of Varna "AD," Information Service "AD," "Bulgarian Posts", State Enterprise "Communication Construction and Recovery" and State Enterprise "Port Infrastructure." As of 30 June 2014, the cash of all commercial companies and state-owned enterprises of the Ministry's system to the financial institution's quoted period amounted to a total of 384 million. 591 thousand. BGN 858. and, respectively, 11.19% of the cash in the Corporate Bank. So the rule of less than 25% is followed. I'm sorry, but I don't have the numbers by company. I can further inform you that Sofia Airport probably has 27 million, which it will not be able to get, because when the bank announced under special regime the money was there. They could not be withdrawn due to other circumstances as they were secured in an account with a Kuwaiti investment fund case. I make a commitment to give you a detailed reference to a company by company about what their exposures have been in order to answer your question in particular and in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for this answer. I think it will also be useful for you to do this check and to see a company by company what amounts they held and under what conditions, because as we have heard from the Minister of Energy What you said about Sofia airport, if I understood you correctly, probably about 27 million. lv. they're being held there. This means that nearly half of the funds were held in CCB, which, if I recorded it, was about 43 million. lv. only at Sofia Airport. In other words, given the Council of Ministers' ruling on deconcentration, it seems to me that this company did not comply with this requirement itself. Perhaps there may be similar cases with regard to other companies. In other words, it is entirely possible that there are grounds for seeking the responsibility of the management of both this and other companies which have ignored this decree of the Council of Ministers. In this sense, I ask you to carefully order the verification of the funds and bodies by which they were held in CCB, whether the decree of the Council of Ministers has been complied with and to take the logical measures for members of the management or for managers who have not fulfilled it and who have actually broken the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u151	A hole, Mr. Secretary? You have no desire. The next question is from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev on offering a concession to Sofia Airport. You're welcome to develop the matter, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The question we ask with colleagues Zhelyo Boychev and Stoyan Mirchev concerns the offering of a concession at Sofia airport or, if I may say so, the other golden hen after Plovdiv Airport, which your government and the Ministry, which you manage, want us to give a concession. Of course, it is your right, but I want to ask you: First of all, where in your election programs, platforms, both the party and the government, and the coalition you represent, is it written that you have an idea to give Sofia airport a concession? This is an airport that employs at least 2,000 people. I think such a responsible action should be prepared a little earlier and stated when you appear in elections. In this regard, my question to you is: when and how, under what conditions do you plan to proceed with the concession procedure at the airport? What are your intentions on the development of Sofia airport in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u153	Thank you, Mr. Slivensky. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, very clearly and precisely is recorded in the election program, sector. I was personally involved in writing. The policy of the GERB Party, provided that it will manage, in the various sectors of transport, for roads and railways, as I have explained to the foreground, is to use maximum funds from the Structural Funds of the European Union. As regards port and airport infrastructure, the concession mechanism will be used. This is permitted under Bulgarian law, where we will try to attract private co-operators, private capital to invest in this infrastructure, which, I stress, remains state for the period of concession. It's given to an operator who develops it, invests it. All of this is still state property. During this concession, the State collects concession fees. This is very clearly written in the management program of Party GERB. The other coalition partners, I don't know. Under the concession law, the concession procedure is preceded by preparatory actions. The Ministry is currently conducting preparatory actions to grant a concession to the Civil Airport for Public Use. As you know, Sofia Airport is the largest airport in the country. It occupies a significant position in the infrastructure system of the state. It serves the capital and the district, the region with the most developed economy in the country and is the most convenient airport at two significant national winter resorts - Bansko and Borovets. The prospect is for the airport to develop as a logistics centre in the Balkans by attracting transit passengers from the countries of the Middle and Middle East, the Interstellar and Central Europe, and for this purpose it is necessary to draw up and implement an investment programme aimed at improving the quality, scope, effectiveness of airport services provided to airlines and passengers, as well as modernisation, technical facilities and equipment. The concession is intended to transfer from the State to the concessionaire the operating, market and environmental risk and the risk of maintaining and investing in a civil airport, while the functions of the State remain regulatory and control. The State reserves the ownership of the assets granted to a concession or constructed by the concessionaire for the duration of the concession. The opening of a concession procedure for a service to the site.Civil airport for public use.Sofia is in line with the priorities of the government for the construction and efficient maintenance, integration, modernisation and development of national transport infrastructure, integration of the Bulgarian transport system into the European, transparent and harmonised conditions for competition on transport markets, ensuring a good business environment, ensuring adequate financing and functioning of the transport sector, limiting the negative impact of transport on the environment and people's health, achieving a high level of safety and security in transport. The concession analyses will be the basis for determining the financial and economic indicators of the concession and the main obligations of the concessionaire as the amount of annual concession payment, amount and main directions of the investment programme, services to be carried out on the concession site, social programme obligations and others. In the event that concession analyses justify the legality of granting the airport of Sofia a concession, the Ministry will take appropriate action to initiate the concession procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Moskovski, thank you for your answer, but my colleagues and I have asked this question, worried about several circumstances. First of all, my memory is that in 2012, when you were in GERB's first cabinet, you were again Minister of Transport. As far as I know, such a concessional analysis was made. I think its approximate value was 108 thousand. lv. What requires re-ordering and ordering such a type of concessional analysis? I would very much like you to state very clearly from this platform your intentions to make the future development of the airport in maximum awareness, publicity and transparency. In recent years, a lot of funds have been invested in Sofia airport, you know, under ISPA, under the "FAR" programme, the Kuwaiti Investment Fund and at the same time the financial indicators and the way in which the airport is managed cause a lot of questions in our country. I can give a few examples and it seems to me that they must be cleared before proceeding to any phase of future development at the airport. As far as I have information, from only one operator, from one carrier, Sofia airport has claims of nearly 60 million. lv. Why not proceed to their requirement is the question that I personally do not have an answer to. We have completed an arbitration procedure with the Kuwaiti Fund. Now I've heard from you that we've lost 27 million irrevocably on a CCB account. When the final ruling of arbitration comes out, we'll probably lose another 40 million. Euros. The whole financial situation and the way we manage the airport are alarming us. My request is clear to make a commitment from the parliamentary tribune to the future development of the airport at maximum public consultation and awareness.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u157	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Boychev, you are absolutely right and I make the commitment that everything will become as transparent as possible. However, we need to give a little more information. First of all, you're right, the airport was convicted by the Kuwaiti Investment Fund. The arbitration case is closed and probably within a few weeks or months will be completed and the procedure for exequatur and airport Sofia must pay a penalty of 42 million. The dollar. However, this case concerns a period which is in 2005 - 2006, so we are simply paying the bill of damage done since then. You are absolutely right about the duties of a large operator. The Bulgarian operator, who, I would like to tell you, that absolutely by law all the obligations of him are required. Last week, $10 million was paid. lv. But since you ruled for a year and a half, I left the duties of this operator under 20 million a year and a half ago, I don't know why while you were in charge, you didn't call them from him, so it became 60 million. Last week, this cameraman must have paid $10 million. There's a repayment plan he needs to follow, and I hope he does. From now on, I'm just setting an example that I can't think of an airport in Europe that has a public operator. Our objective is actually to attract a serious operator operating a lot of airports around the world, which will actually develop the airport as a regional hub. God willing! The competition is very strong. We are doing what is possible, and I guarantee you that this will be an absolutely transparent, accessible and verifiable procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the MP Miho Dimitrov Mihov regarding the failure of the provisions of the Civil Aviation Act by the ministers authorised for this. Here you go, General. Mihov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is the failure to comply with the provisions of the Civil Aviation Act. In the last decade radical changes have occurred in the use of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and that of the Union countries. Both in military technical and economic terms, it was necessary to harmonise its use by civil, military and so-called small service or rather special and sanitary aviation formations. Due to the complexity of air traffic management, the dynamic change in weather conditions, the possible refusals of aircraft in flight and due to production-economic repairs and problems, all these things imposed the use of airports and the airport network in our country of all kinds of aviation. For this reason, the legislator provided for Section 4 of Chapter 4, Airports, art. 43, para. 6 of the Civil Aviation Act solves this problem with a regulatory regulation. To my surprise and bitterness, the ministers of four governments of the Republic of Bulgaria no longer comply with the provisions of this Law. Dear Minister, my question is: which couple of ministers of transport, information technology and communications and defence will comply with the above-mentioned member of the law, which reads: the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Defence determine the terms and conditions for the joint use of civil airport for public use and military airports, as well as for the operation of civil aircraft flights to and from military airports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u161	Thank you, General. Mihov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable General. Mihov! With regard to non-compliance, the provisions of the Civil Aviation Act by the ministers authorised to do so, I would like to inform you of the following. Following the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union and the signing of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, our country is subject to obligations to comply with European legislation on air traffic management and airports provided by the Single European Sky legislative package. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the European Global Plan on Air Traffic Management, there is a monitoring mechanism which is implemented in the ATM part by the European Aviation Safety Agency and DG CAA, including licensing, certification, review of ongoing compliance, regulatory audits, inspections and inspections of aviation organisations. Since the date of Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, significant efforts have been made by the air navigation service provider and airport operators at international civil airports to reach the set levels in key performance areas. The European legislation regulating the activities for air navigation service providers and airport operators has been transposed into the Bulgarian legislation by adopting Ordinance No 26 of 2012 on the issue and withdrawal of a certificate for the operation of aepronavigation services, on the requirements for organisations carrying out air navigation services and their oversight and on the verification of the operational suitability of civil airports, flight sites, ground handling systems and facilities, on licensed aerodrome operators and ground handling operators, and on access to the ground handling market at airports. Currently, in accordance with European and national law, military aircraft may operate from civil airports as general air traffic after a completed flight plan. "General air traffic' means all flights of civil aircraft as well as all flights of state aircraft, including military, customs and police aircraft, when such flights are carried out in accordance with ICAO procedures. Where there is a need to use civil airports by operating air traffic flights which are operated under procedures other than those of ICAO, both agreements for interaction between airport operators and military aviation operators and procedures between military and civil air traffic services authorities, which are approved by the General Directorate of the Air Administration, shall be developed. Aircraft operations by the aviation operator as general air traffic from and to an airport which does not have an operational suitability certificate and use of services by a air navigation service provider that does not hold a certificate of air navigation services shall be an infringement under both European Union and national law. An airport operator intending to provide civil aircraft services shall be authorised in accordance with art. Art. 48c. 48 years of the Civil Aviation Act. The air navigation service provider should comply with the requirements of Ordinance No 26 of 2012 on the issue and withdrawal of a certificate for the performance of air navigation services for the requirements of organisations which supervise them. An application for an airport operator licence or an application for a certificate of air navigation services may submit any organisation that fulfils the requirements of those Regulations and Regulations. According to the current legislation, Regulation No 19 of 2012 on the operation of the Single Civil and Military Space Management System issued by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in force from 14 December 2012 and in agreement with the Minister of Defence, and Commission Regulation (EC) 2150/2005 laying down common rules for the flexible use of airspace provide for the possibility of resolving issues related to the organisation of military and civil aircraft flights over the territory of Bulgaria by establishing military and civil interaction procedures between the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u163	Here's your line, General. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! Thank you for your answer. My understanding will be illustrated by one example: last year on 11 October at Sofia airport, the position of Hostiles has landed almost all available military aviation for carrying out a parade. Due to the fact that, under art. 43, para. 6 So far there is no regulation, I ask myself: how is the safety and responsibility of all this aviation ensured? From the answer, Mr. Minister, I believe there is an understanding. The law must be implemented and such a legislative document must be signed by the two ministers and we must develop the idea of a new law, which has been since 1972 and must be completely renewed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u165	Thank you, General. Mihov. A hole? No. I suggest that you provide these 5 pages. of Gen. Mihov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov concerning the creation of unnecessary bureaucratic difficulties in the technical examination of cars. Mr. Dimitrov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen and ladies ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Moskovski, this is the second time you are asked today in a different variety, again from the Reformation Block, because there are obviously many signals from citizens about artificially created bureaucratic difficulties. Imagine, we, as a ruling majority and government, are telling people that we are introducing electronic services and, at the same time, for many technical reviews, people who have paid the car tax on the Internet or by any other means that is not a direct payment in the municipality, we are asking all these people to go to the municipality to receive a stamp and some of them that they had to go to the servicing bank for another certificate. This, my dear Minister, is a very bad practice, which is exactly the opposite of the e-government. I liked your answer that more than 180 municipalities found the solution and it was very simple. The solution is a simple automated system. You go to the service, people check if you have paid the tax in a database that is available, you write the numbers, you come out. That's it! Mr. Minister, what I have not heard from you and I insist on is: can you make a commitment at the latest, can earlier, but at the latest 1 January 2016 this problem be solved anywhere in Bulgaria? This is the most elementary information system you are going to the respective city in the workshop, insert in an elementary system the number of the car and there goes out in a blue "Paid tax" or in a red "Unpaid tax" respectively. Your efforts in this regard are commendable. The point is, in order for there to be solutions, it takes deadlines. Announcing as our government's main commitment to introducing electronic services, it is very good to have a deadline and to be the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u167	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here's your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, yes, I'm making this commitment. It is completely realistic by the end of this year is possible all the other over 189 municipalities, as at the moment 189 municipalities have compatible information systems with that of the Automobile Administration.The rest up to 264 is absolutely realistic and possible. We are actually putting this task on our hands and, by the end of the year, I make a commitment to integrate and compatible absolutely all information systems in order to alleviate citizens, of course, which is really our main objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's your line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u170	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Minister. That's how we need to measure the electronic government. How many services were not available electronically before our initiative and how many services resulting from the initiative and the ideas for introducing an e-government have become available in this way. Mr. Minister, I reserve the right at the beginning of next year to give you the opportunity to say that you have fulfilled your commitment, namely people from all over Bulgaria to know that it does not matter how they paid their car tax, they can pass on a technical review without unnecessary administrative problems without making them go to the municipality or the service bank or anywhere else. This is how the modern state is built. Thanks again for the answer. More importantly, your promise to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u171	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. He doesn't have an ass. We move on to the last question to Minister Moskovski of the National Representative Petar Georgiev Kadiev on the lack of access to public electronic and communications networks and services in settlements from Smolyan district. Mr. Kadiev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, despite the progress of technology and progress in the field of mobile communications and services, there are still settlements in Bulgaria that cannot benefit from their advantages. The inability to make calls from mobile and stationary phones is a serious problem in some settlements in Smolyan region. In the villages of Gorovo, the Bukakats, Lipets, Elevo scope and access to these services of the national mobile operators there are no and no actions have been made to provide them. A few years ago they were able to rely on some landlines, but after the cable networks were dropped, which were stolen and after the removal of all these reptitors in the area of analogue stations and reptitors, this connection no longer existed. Thus, people in this region are in a kind of isolation without any connection to the world. On the other hand, these are settlements whose inhabitants are mostly elderly, in their majority with chronic health problems suggesting access to medical services. However, lack of communication could endanger their health and life. That is why I ask such a question: why the Communications Regulation Commission has not complied with the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications and, in particular, art. 160 and in conjunction with Art. 4, para. 1, 2 and 3 and is it intended to do, given the undeniable need, for residents of those areas, what is necessary to provide a mobile or fixed telephone service?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u173	Here's your answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, the concept of universal electronic communications service is leading to the European regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications, respectively our national legislation. The Law on Electronic Communications describes the nature and scope of the universal service. According to the provision of art. 182, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, the universal service is a set of services of a defined quality offered to all end users regardless of their geographical location on the territory of the country at an affordable price. The functions of regulating and controlling the implementation of electronic communications in Bulgaria are carried out by the Communications Regulation Commission. In accordance with para. 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications The Bulgarian Telecommunications Company BTC is the undertaking obliged to provide universal service at affordable prices and with a certain quality throughout the country. In this regard, the Ministry requested an opinion on the competence of BTC with a copy to the Communications Regulation Commission on the current status for the provision of services under art. 182, para. 2 of the Law in the above-mentioned settlements, as well as the possibilities for receiving new subscribers of electronic and communications services regardless of the technology used. In its reply, BTC informed us that in the villages of Gorovo, Bukatsite, Lipetz, Elevo, Smolyan region the company maintains a coverage allowing provision of a fixed telephone service to help the subscribers are installed external antennas in order to use seamlessly given the specific relief and the area in the area. BTC points out that to date in the village of Lipets there are 11 telephone posts operating in the village of Bukatsite 13, in the village of Elevo 4 in the village of Gorovo 14. An entity shall express its readiness to provide fixed telephone services through wireless technology to new subscribers in the specified villages as a universal service provider. In addition, BTC informed us that they have taken enhanced measures to protect the network facilities serving the localised settlements in order to prevent theft and ensure continuity of the service. In its opinion, the company points out that it is carrying out periodic checks, taking into account that for the last year no long-term damage has been recorded affecting the subscribers of the universal service. In relation to the question you have asked, the Ministry has asked for an opinion from all three national mobile operators BTC, Mobiltel EAD and Telenor Bulgaria EAD, which have already built networks with the largest coverage per population in the country on their ability to provide electronic and communications services, regardless of the technologies used in these settlements. Telenor Bulgaria has informed us that at the moment the company is in the process of a complete renovation of its network and in this connection it is about to carry out planning for additional provision of base stations. According to information from MTel in the villages in Smolyan region there is satisfactory coverage with mobile signal. The Ministry monitors the state of satisfaction of Bulgarian citizens from modern quality electronic communications services and takes legal measures to create conditions for coverage throughout the country. In addition, I just want to say that on the subject, you know, after the disasters, we have invited CRC to the Transport Commission, in which I have also participated, this issue has been raised many times, so I am convinced that, to date, most likely, all operators who own network stations in these regions have taken measures. I am committed to talking to the CRC in order to carry out further targeted inspection of these facilities and I sincerely hope this is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope these last sentences of yours that you made as promises will happen, because ultimately, at the moment, the reality is this.. right now there is a signature of 80 subscribers who wish to become members of any mobile operator, only to have such a connection. Abonati, yes. Besides these 80 subscribers, there are over 240 people in these settlements. There's no signal. In addition, many times the people of the hunting parties have told me that there is no coverage in this area and in the end, if there is any trouble, there is no way to call. So I will very much ask you to take specific measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u177	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. A hole? No. I thank Minister Moskovski for today's participation in parliamentary control. We are going to answer 14 questions and two questions to Ljiljana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov about the reconstruction of a road section. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, my question is related to a road section between several villages in the municipality of Targovishte, where I was chosen. It is precisely about Makariopolsko, Bukovo, Ablanovo, as well as Lozenets, neighbouring villages. The road is to some extent finished because there is some repair or the top layer of the asphalt has been removed from the tablecloth, but from there everything is sitting that way. I guess the same situation is in a number of other villages in the country. I am very interested to hear from you, I would appreciate what will be done in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u179	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Alexandrov! In connection with your question about the road from the village of Makariopolsko to Bukhovtsi, Ostrets, Nadarevo, Lzavac and to the village of Pevets. These are settlements in the territory of Targovishte district with a third-class direction in this direction from 24 km. The fact is, you're right, the condition of the road is unsatisfactory. It is unsatisfactory because it has been done, but the repair of this road section has not been completed. This is why there really is a section of the road on which the asphalt is frized, after which it is not asphalted, and for the time in which it was used in this condition, the base was further destroyed. What's the reason he's in such a bad state this time? It hasn't been repaired in years. It was included in the projects for funding under the projects for rehabilitation of second-class and third-class roads under the Regional Development Programme 2007-2013, on which the API was a beneficiary. He had an appointed contractor in 2011 from September when he started the contract with this contractor. Unfortunately, one year later, after the contract expired, the contractor did not complete the construction, made only a partial repair of only 7% was the execution of this contractor one year later and upon the expiry of the contract. At the end of his contract, he totally refused to work, took the advance and disappeared. This was also the reason why the Road Agency terminated the contract with this contractor and, of course, activated a guarantee and demanded its advance back, then followed one or two years of cases which reached all the courts and finally the arbitration court correctly ruled in favour of the Road Agency that there was an unholy execution by that contractor. This gave reason to re-open the tender procedure so that a new contractor could be selected to complete this site. This tender procedure has also been appealed, but there is finally a decision of the SAC, so we are continuing the procedure. I hope that if there is no more appeal for the final decision to elect a contractor, the contract can be concluded in June, if there is an appeal, we will also have to wait for them. The validity of European free funding is a fact. We have money for him. They are valid until December 2015. If we successfully elect a contractor without appeal, he will execute the contract by December, we have the opportunity to pay it back and then this whole section from Makariopolsko to Buchovtsi will be completely repaired and rehabilitated under the Regional Development Programme. However, if this does not happen, unfortunately we will lose European funding and then the only option for this time will be with the state budget, its rehabilitation along the line of the Program for Current Repair, and not for overall rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will tell you what I said to my colleague Stanilov: for the first time I am pleased with the response of a minister in the Chamber. I hope that you will do everything possible to succeed and that there will be no appeal so as not to lose funds for the road. However, this was indeed an answer and entirely as information was absolutely correct. Thank you very much and I really hope that these people deserve the good way they get.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u183	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. There is no hole in the form of gratitude, Mrs. Pavlova. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in the implementation of public and geo-protected activities to limit the adverse effects on the population of the landslide process on the road from St. Petka to the neighborhoods Dolna Dubeva and Alendarova, Velingrad municipality, Pazardzhik district, after snow melting and rain showers. Here you go, Professor. Georgieva, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! On 30 March 2015, I was unable to meet with the residents of the neighborhoods, which the President listed as Dolna Dubeva, Alendarova and Vsemirtsi, as the road for 25 meters was cut off from a landslide due to snowmelting. It is known that in the Pazardzhik region, the March snowfalls were quite ruthless. I realize that the situation has changed as a result of our late meeting of Parliamentary control, because in your question, when will the connection between the central part of the village and these three neighborhoods be realized, as the residents of the pendulums are literally difficult for primary needs and housing needs for elementary lifestyles, and 78 students were traveling on foot in a cut-off area, along forest paths to reach school. At that time, for two or three weeks, this questioned their educational process and the validation of their school year. My question is: when will this important section of transport infrastructure be restored according to the relevant requirements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u185	Thank you, Professor. Georgieva. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, as you know, the Ministry of Regional Development has a commitment with regard to monitoring, recording of all landslide areas and processes, activated landslides and subsequently their action and impact on the territory of the whole country. Based on the information we receive from the relevant municipalities or the authorities and institutions concerned, we maintain a register of these landslides and the three state-owned companies are carrying out the annual monitoring and monitoring processes. In addition, according to the plans and commitments we have, we have developed a national programme that gives short-term, medium-term and long-term measures regarding the prevention and strengthening of landslide areas. Another point is that the overall implementation of this programme requires investments of almost 900 million. BGN, which at present we can hardly plan in their entirety. Regarding the particular problem that you are putting, namely this time to the neighborhoods Dolna Dubeva and Alendarova in Velingrad municipality. What we can find: yes, as a result of the landslide and signaled by the municipality of Velingrad, Geosaprotecta, Pernik, in whose territory this landslide falls, made the landslide required by law and survey of the territory and registration of the landslide, so that the landslide is registered in the common register. From now on, given that the landslide is on the territory of the municipality, on a road which is also municipal, the municipality's commitment is to carry out the subsequent actions related to its strengthening. What we have done to support the actions of the municipality is to prescribe specific measures related to the engineering and geological study. This must be entrusted by the municipality, which after carrying out the engineering-geological study to submit its project under the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents. I hope, once the funding is granted, the municipality will have the opportunity to entrust the activities of strengthening the landslide. From the point of view of the ministry's commitment in this process, the Ministry specifically and above all the Geoprotectives of Pernik are available in the completion of this file, to provide the necessary methodological and geoengineering additions so that the municipality can complete its project. You can rely on me and my team as representatives of the Ministry in this Interdepartmental Commission that we will give our vote to support the maximum rapid funding for all the activities that the municipality will provide in its project, with which it will apply for this time. Once again I will point out that this time it is not Republican, it is not included in the list of municipal ones, as it leads to three neighborhoods. This is the so-called Mahlenski route and is fully part of the municipality's commitments to take the necessary measures. Another important clarification, you also know it well, but according to the information I have, children are not deprived of the opportunity to go to school. You know that the municipality has built a temporary road. This is also the road used for school buses and for all living in these neighborhoods so that they can have access to precisely those services for which you also noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Mrs. Georgieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. I am glad that you are conscious that it is a temporary road that has been restored, that is to say that this section has been restored with a drenched floor, and there is no asphalt pavement because there is no watercourse built, no support wall has been built, and that means that the temporary condition is infinitely unreliable, and any moment, if there is, don't give God, some heavy rains and heavy rains, the temporary section that is just a dump and nothing more, every moment will disappear and again the sharp problem will arise. On this occasion, as you have argued, what is the procedure in such cases, I again allow myself to ask you to proceed with responsibility, in order to validate the changes in the stable management programme. We spoke here two months ago. As a result of my question, which was about incorrect facts about the number of municipalities, there immediately, hell hock introduced changes that in this part of protection of the population from landslide processes have also been changed, only oddly why in the section on prevention and protection of the population from landslide processes the measures have been reduced from three to one and, notice, you used in your response that it was about preventive geo-protective measures and activities, but in the programme the word "preventive" after this ad hock version in motion, without validating the procedure amendment and addition to the Decision of the Council of Ministers No 42 from January 2015, it is not. This concerns me particularly because I think it is at the expense of citizens' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. A hole? I won't. A question from the National Representative Dora Ilieva Yankova on rehabilitation and strengthening of the state second-class road Asenovgrad "Chepelare." Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is about the rehabilitation and strengthening of the state second-class road Asenovgrad. Since 2010, that is to say, for nearly four years now working, we have entered the fifth year, the rehabilitation of the state road Asenovgrad is carried out. This is under the Transit Roads Programme. The debate in my electoral district and the people I meet and talk to that undoubtedly they are aware of it as the Rhodope Highway, Madam Minister. This is the connection of the Rhodope region with the central part of the Republic of Bulgaria. A few questions stand particularly sharp. In the economic crisis, the good condition of this road is economic support for the region. The road is also lifesaving. There is no invasive cardiology in Smolyan and you know that it takes nearly three hours for the lifesaving passage from Smolyan to Plovdiv to save people and this is really the path of the lives of some of the Rhodopeans. Winter also created a lot of problems with landslides and collapses. We have repeatedly debated this issue with you working, but also the people from Bulgaria who come to the tourism area, and those who use the road as an economic axis, and those who pass, want to know: this long repair to rehabilitate the second-class road when will it end? Secondly, have you ordered the design to strengthen the ski, which is an extremely important award, and will there be a possibility this summer of at least two thirds of the way to achieve this? After winter, it was an extremely dangerous passage and it was really difficult to live in my constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, yes, unfortunately, it's a long saga. We have discussed this issue with you many times regarding the completion of the rehabilitation of these almost 50 km from the second-class road Asenovgrad. I would remind you that it is financed under the Transit Roads Programme. Its value is just over 25 million. lv. and the contract with the Association of "Rodopi" was concluded on 28 December 2010. At this time, according to signed anexes, I will shortly say what they include, the deadline for the implementation of this contract, if there are no further force majeure circumstances, is 18 October 2015. I hope that with our efforts, including our joint control of the MPs on the ground, the contractor will complete this site successfully by October of this year. As you remember in 2012 at the request of the local authorities, the people in the region, to this site, we also added to this lot the rehabilitation 4 km from the third-class road Chepelare "January 6th", replacement and restoration of the territories in the sense of pavement in several of the villages of Bachkovo, Called, Narechenski Baths and Hvoyna, as well as other activities. That is why, although 70% of the site has been completed, its duration with the added activities has been extended over time. In parallel to the situation after the severe winter conditions, snowmelting and the many landslides that have been activated, we have assigned to the same contractor with additional award orders to strengthen precisely the two heavyest skis of the big landslide of the South Inn, on the one hand, as well as the activated landslide on the 29th kilometer, which is literally after Asenovgrad. For these two landslides we have made the measures that were related to emergency cleaning so that we can open the way, because we realize that this is the only link with Smolyan region, but in parallel the necessary projects have been developed. The same builder has a commitment by October to make the lasting, comprehensive strengthening of these two critical landslides. Otherwise, the activities themselves, which are related to the cleaning of landslides, are also cleaning every night, because unfortunately every night we have, albeit on a much smaller scale, landslides, which are activated especially in the Asenovgrad area, we literally daily clean them. This is the company, which has a commitment to ongoing maintenance and winter repairs. Apart from that, I would like to say that for the tunnels, which are in the direction of Asenovgrad, Bachkovo and between Bachkovo and Narechen Baths, we have also commissioned the development of a technical project, including lighting of these tunnels. It is also added to Lot 14 so that by October we can complete not only rehabilitation but also tunnels, but also the lasting strengthening of the two critical areas of landslides. This is the most sensible way, as you know that the budget funds are limited, we will benefit from the available contract under the Transit Roads Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u193	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, it is good news that in October this year you intend to complete the project as a performance which was awarded in 2010. I insist, no more concession to the performer! Stressing his activities because from one end is what was started in 2010 and at the other end is almost believed to be old construction. I demand that you also plead for the quality of the construction, for a good restraint with both guardrails and a net from the ski, along with both objects. Good news is, they're gonna happen this year. This is extremely important, this is a policy for the area and I therefore think that today the news is good, but don't miss out, as the transit road programme is until 2016, to let you down and say: "Let's stay this year and again be in trouble next year to test whether a stone will fall, whether there will be a slump, or if there will be a landslide. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. There's no hole. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev about the costing and delay in the construction of Lot 4 on the highway of Trakiya "Yambol" Karnobat and Lot 1 on the highway of Struma "Delna Dikanya" Dupnitsa. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! There is hardly any Bulgarian citizen who does not want permanent and significant improvement of road infrastructure in our country. You as Minister in Mr. Borisov's second government have declared this your priority. Constantly by the media we are flooded with events - first digs, interim checks, checks on execution schedules, deadlines of completion of these sites. My feeling is that there is a lot of speculation about this subject. This prompted me to ask a number of questions about the priorities of the implementation of the Operational Programme "Transport" related to the main highway sections in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Borisov's first government, in which you were a minister during the current President Rosen Plevneliev, imposed one, in my opinion, extremely vicious practice: the choice of performer of these sections to be determined by only one criterion at the lowest price. This has led to numerous vicious practices related to additional direct or indirect financing of these sections, and I would therefore like to be answered by the question concerning the deadlines for implementing Lot 4 of the Trakia Motorway (Trakia Motorway), Yambol (Karnobat) and Lot 1 of Struma Motorway (Struma) Dolna Dikanya (Dupnitsa): what was the initial deadline for implementing these sections? What was the initial value at which the contracts were concluded? What is the delay in putting these sections into service? What additional funding, outside of what is at stake in the contract, has been made for the implementation of these sections?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u197	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u198	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, it is undoubtedly important not only that the priority of the Ministry and the government as a whole is the completion and construction of the highway ring, as well as the restoration and rehabilitation of all possible directions of the Republican road network. It is important to note that both of the sections that you spoke about were implemented under the contracts concluded were put into service within the time limit, so I remind you that Lot 4 of the highway "Trakiya" was put into service as early as 15 July 2013 and since then everyone, I think we are happy to take advantage of the fact that Bulgaria finally has its fully completed motorway. Let's get into the specifics of the contract you're asking about. The main contract for the implementation of Lot 4 on Thrace Highway was concluded on 31 August 2010 as the start of construction works, you know that it started when a construction line and Protocol 2A was issued. For this site this was issued on 6 October 2010 by a period until February 2013. The deadline was extended until 15 July due to the severe winter conditions under which asphalt could not be laid and therefore only five months later this section of the highway was put into operation, Act 16 was issued and we have successfully benefited from it for two years. Within the framework of the contract concluded, there is no annexation and further increase of the initial value. The value of this construction contract is 209,6 million. lv. And it hasn't been changed as such. Within the framework of the contract is the only thing I mentioned that we have this extension by 5 months of the term, without increasing the price. Additional activities awarded along the section of the highway "Trakia" Lot 4 "Yambol "Karnobat" has been awarded following open procedures under the Public Procurement Act, on the basis of which activities have been selected accordingly aimed at overcoming the problem of over-wetlands. You remember at that time about heavy rainfall, as well as further recent geological studies, showed the need to strengthen these soils. This is further in the contract after the open procedures were conducted. With regard to Lot 1 of the highway "Struma", the section from Dolna Dikanya to Dupnitsa, for this section the period of construction was 23 months, namely from 1 October 2011 to September 2013. The contract was implemented within a period of time, and not only the section included, was completed early on 22 July 2013. The station he means is Sofia "Dupnitsa" and "Dupnitsa" Sofia at the road hub "Dupnitsa North." This contract has also not been changed to its value. The value of the construction contract is 70 million. BGN, it is not annexed and is not increased. There are awarded after open tender procedures, three other additional contracts. The total value of the three is 10 million. lv. One contract after an open procedure is to shift the route of the existing plumbing, as this route and the displacement of the plumbing was not foreseen, to a value of 88 thousand. BGN, which is assigned additionally. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The second contract is for construction and construction works related to wet soils. The third contract is for the construction of the overpass of the road node "Dolna Dikanya" and additional drilling pilots, again at the overpass of the Lower Dikanya. These are the additional contracts awarded under this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u199	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Boychev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask these questions because the parliamentary tribune of the National Assembly is the highest place in our country and the facts and circumstances regarding the construction of the highway sections in Bulgaria, which sounded from it, can hardly be questioned. Again, this will be a series of my questions about the policy and the way in which you implement the priorities in road infrastructure. What disturbs me is that after the introduction of a policy at the lowest price of performers of these highway sections it turns out that almost all of our projects are confused and we are witnessing wet soils, erosion, forgetting the design of one or another road facility and this is the reason why you are constantly entrusted with open orders, which, however, is clear the notorious winner, and this is the company that performs the relevant segment, additionally and indirectly to be financed. You see, we have five months on Lot Four as fun. I would also ask you to mention the additional figure which, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Irritation Systems, was given in order for colleagues and Bulgarian viewers to make a reference in relation to the total value of the contract For my second question, Lot 1 of Struma, you mentioned that there the additional funding is about 10 million leva. I'm just reminding you that the segment is short and its value is below 60 million. BGN, so here this amount is not so fracking.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u201	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. A hole? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boychev! I do not know what suggestions you are trying to make, but the first thing we need to note is, yes, the fact is that in the period 2009-2010 public procurements were awarded for the selection of performers of the first sections, which were also built by the Trakia Highway and by the Maritsa Highway, on the principle of the lowest price. At this point in terms of return of trust, including in our European partners, let us recall that the European funds for funds managed by the Road Agency were stopped by the European Commission due to mistrust and failure to accept the management and control systems built at that time in the period 2007-2009 at the Road Agency. In order to restore trust, we changed the management and control systems, we needed a maximum objective criterion to choose these performers. At that point, it was the lowest price. Yes, it has its advantages as objectivity, but it also has its disadvantages. That is why since 2011, as you can see, if you are monitoring the chronology of public procurement, all contractors for large infrastructure sites are chosen not on the principle of the lowest price, but on the most economically advantageous. So this practice has changed, this practice is a fact, and I think it is the most reasonable in terms of finding a balance between price and quality and really being the most economically profitable. Let us remember, however, that the section of the so-called Lot 0 of the Struma Highway, which was next to Daskalovo, from Daskalovo to Dolna Dikanya, was initially entrusted by the then management of the three coalition for 32 million. EUR and ended at 98 million. EUR, so this is also an interesting triple increase in value. So if we go this way to measure our values, believe me, the account won't come in your favor. With regard to the Thracian highway, Lot 1 of the Thracian highway, it was raised by 65 million. lv. Yes, it is a fact that procedures are announced, performers are selected in old projects, current geology. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As we can see at the moment, heavy rains have been in recent years, which has led to change. But far away the values are, if we make a balance, quite different the irrigation, the re-moistened soils were costing through the Irritating Systems, and I think there were 12 million of them the value that was given to the Irritating Systems, because I don't have the numbers in front of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u203	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Zhelyo Boychev about the costing and delay in the construction of highway sections. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the point of the questions I have asked is, if there is such a type, I say 'practicies', no matter who or what time they were conducted, I believe that they are not beneficial to the state and I do not think that they should be protected. Even more correctly, you considered the decision and the policy imposed by Rosen Plevneliev to choose a contractor at the lowest price. In addition to the fact that it has led to numerous forms of additional funding of these sections, I would like to say that we have witnessed an amazing, I think, distortion of the competitive environment in Bulgaria. People in the industry know very well how performers were forced to complete one or another section of their own account on the grounds that, if you see, they will be compensated in part for the other procedures that are ahead. My specific question is now about the ongoing implementation of the highway sections: Maritsa Motorway, Lot 1 and Lot 2, and Struma Motorway, Lot 4. My question again is: what is the value at which these contracts are concluded, what is the duration of their implementation? Will we need additional funding for the final completion of the performance of the contracts? Do you expect problems with the European Commission, given the delay that has been made at the moment for them and the obvious additional funds that must be allocated for their completion? Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, since you are asking for two of the highways of Maritsa and Struma, I will start with the highway of Maritsa. As I have also mentioned in my reply to your previous question, the Maritsa Highway was reassigned, taking advantage of the projects available at that time and their accompanying geological studies. That is why I mentioned that in the wetlands of both territories in the areas along Thrace Lot 4 of both Lots of the Highway "Maritsa" resulted in these necessary additional measures relating to the wetlands and the strengthening of these soils. The contract concluded for the construction of the Maritsa 1 motorway and respectively the Maritsa 2 motorway, namely the sections from Rice to Dimitrovgrad and from Dimitrovgrad to Harmanli, is an undisputed fact that they are being implemented with serious delay, but at the moment, literally a few days apart, I hope that the construction of the second lot from the highway will be completed. On the other hand, the construction of the first Lot is to be completed by the end of October. The fact is, both precincts were supposed to be closed until last year, which didn't happen. We saw a very serious deadlock, almost stopped construction of both stations. In a year and a half, progress on both sections was no more than 10% as a real implementation of construction works. This significantly hinders the possibility that before winter we will be able to complete them, because, again, I am saying what are the rates of completion of these objects, as we saw them last November. Hopefully the builders will mobilize and finish them off after all. There is no change in the initially concluded contract for both the highway and here for these contracts, in the sense that it has not been invoked. He's got extra assignments. They are entrusted with open procedures or with a procedure under the CPO without a notice, which is done for each of the lots, respectively, separately. What we can say is that in Lot 1 there was an open procedure announced in February 2015 at the most economically advantageous price. It relates precisely to the additional reinforcements we mention and other activities. The second procedure in respect of Lot 2 was announced June 2014. One is for construction and installation activities again along the route, the second is for reconstruction of pipelines. One procedure is open, the other procedure is without notice. And for both Lots we have conducted procedures and concluded contracts for reconstruction and transfer of air lines that hinder the passage of the motorway. These are separate procedures. They do not lead to a change of the original contract, but, as you rightly pointed out, unfortunately, it is necessary in the implementation of these projects that we see further emergence of electricity lines, pipelines, relocations or additional geological complications, to be awarded with open procedures within the available budget of the saved funds that we have under the Operational Programme. So all those contract points that I mentioned also have European funding. It is precisely, I hope, in order for us not to have problems with the auditors, that a decision has been made and in 2014 we continue to do so and to date these procedures to be awarded with open orders so that we have complied with the Open Orders Act that we do not have financial corrections, I hope, after the final completion of the implementation of these sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u206	The line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u207	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear Minister, I would really like to make sense of my question on this day, and I would therefore ask that we clarify a few more details about the ongoing implementation of my said Lots 1 and 2 of the Maritsa and Lot 4 of the Struma. First of all, these additional awards that you are talking about and which have been subject to things that have not been part of the project, I would like to say that for Lot 1 of At 133 million we're talking about a third of the price. I consider this to be extremely vicious practice, and I am exporting this data, as I personally am tired of constantly speculating on highways. It is good for Bulgarian citizens to know what the procedures are and to know what the real value of these sections is. You said the completion of the Maritsa is October. But my request is that you engage in the parliamentary tribune and with the completion of Lot 4 on the Struma Highway, as you know how late it is at the moment, you know how much tension the rest of the route and the disturbance of those living through whose territory the route is passing. I don't want to ask a question about how much you've missed the benefits. You know that everywhere in the world is considered the lost benefits of the delay of this. But there, too, I would like you to engage in the parliamentary tribune with a deadline for fulfilling this section and whether additional funding is necessary for it. Once again, I ask these questions, as I will assume that Mr. Oresharski's government has not moved a shovel on these highways, but when I take out that time, they are still outside the deadline for fulfilling these contracts. I remember when Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva was walking the highways, and she was throwing in the public space all the time some dates when they would be ready. Therefore, my request is that we at least clarify this issue, as many people in Bulgaria are interested.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u208	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Boychev! It is a fact that there are additional open procedures assigned or in the process of awarding activities so that the highway can be completed in its entirety "the overall direction of the connection of the highway "Trakia" with the crossing point of Captain Andreevo. However, what is important is that these funds are within the maximum possible and available value of the European funding under Operational Programme "Transport" 2007-2013. The important thing is that the deadline that we are taking for implementation, at least at this point you see that we are trying to meet, namely by the end of this month Lot 2 of Maritsa. The time to be ready and by the end of October Lot 1 as well as to complete the unfinished section on which there was only a left-hand lane made by the so-called old part of the highway "Maritsa" which was made with a budget. I hope that by June 5th, we will be able to complete this section so that it can, in its entirety, be used to the border post as much as possible. I was not able to answer in the main time, but in a few words to say in relation to the highway. Lot 4, the division from Sandanski to the Tower, its value is 67 million. lv. for the implementation of this section. Certainly huge is the saga of the implementation of this project, especially in the past year and a half. You correctly noted the builder was slowing down, not building, hanging out. Despite all the commitments and promises of all the countries, we saw that he failed and including in the last months of last year he had completely withdrawn from the site along with the machines. At the time, talks were also made by the office for termination of the contract. In November and December, analyzing the situation at the time, the delay further aggravated the situation of the small roads that have been used so far for the bypass routes of this section, including if we had gone directly to terminate the contract, this would have led to long cases. You have heard on previous questions how many years it takes arbitration cases to end the dispute with one contractor. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just give me 30 seconds. It was precisely to take into account the benefits, but also the losses for the economy, for the region and the people living, that on 23 December last year an additional agreement was concluded by 1 August this year, the contractor to return, to present a work programme and to work actively. To this day it is respected and this section of the highway must be completed on 1 August. At the moment, we have all the objective prerequisites for this to be a fact. We're gonna keep a close eye on them so that this happens and we're gonna insist that it finally happens. We have an extra order. It's not about the highway itself as a precinct, it's about the border crossing. Standardly they are managed by the Ministry of Finance, but in order not to turn out that a highway of four lanes goes into two, to make an additional one, and we made a commitment to the inhabitants of all villages in the region, to repair the municipal roads that are destroyed because of the trucks that pass. So this is an additional procurement, but it is different from the highway itself and its construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u210	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from MP Cornelia Petrova Ninova on European disaster and disaster assistance. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u211	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! As we all know, in recent years, our country has been hit by many disasters and accidents. Infrastructure has been destroyed. Road, water, electricity distribution networks. Many people lost their homes and furniture, and agricultural production was destroyed. More about the people who are listening to us, I would like to explain, because we know here that there are two ways to recover the damage from such disasters. One is through the Bulgarian, national budget with national funding. The other one is with European funds from the so-called "Fond"......................... of the European Union, which has about 8 billion. BGN, which is applied with a special procedure.. Specially written, in a specific way by each Member State, which wants to receive funds to assist in the recovery of damage from disasters and accidents. My question to Mrs. Pavlova is precisely this: the Bulgarian state has submitted how many applications to the European Union for assistance through the What kind of funds are we talking about here? Is there an approved procedure for Bulgaria already? I have preliminary information that one of these procedures is currently under way. I know more or less how these funds are expected to be distributed, but I would like to formally receive it from Mrs. Pavlova as an answer: can our country rely on this European solidarity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, unfortunately, in recent years and months our country has suffered severe damage to the population, infrastructure throughout the country as a result of heavy snowfalls, rains, storms. All this led to rewetting, landslides, collapses in the territory of many of the country's districts. The mechanisms are several through which we seek and hope for funding to overcome these disasters. On the one hand, the state budget under the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents; on the other hand, we will also rely on the European funds for the new programming period 2014 - 2020. More than 40 million are invested in the Operational Programme "Environment" precisely for activities related to preventing or overcoming damage as a result of disasters on the territory of municipalities. So this is also a resource that we rely on, albeit much smaller than the real needs that we have identified. They will be detailed in our National Programme for the Prevention and Protection of the Population from landslides, erosion and abrasives. With regard specifically to European solidarity and European assistance, which Bulgaria can count on. According to the established mechanism as a result of a regional or national disaster, these are different definitions, for each of which there is a different procedure, Bulgaria can submit its request for funding to the European Commission. When we talk about a major national or regional disaster, the funding it receives is at a different rate. If we are talking about a major, national disaster and it exceeds the threshold, for each country, for each planning area is different, the minimum value, let's say, is about 200 million. EUR per region, such as disaster damage. Then the state can apply for 6% of the damage from the disaster for funding. In the case of smaller, local disasters, regional ones, such as the Mysia example, we can rely only on 2.5% of the total amount of damage to the relevant disaster. At present, Bulgaria has submitted three applications for support to the European Fund The first was the result of the disaster, which was in June 2014 in Asparuhovo, in the Northeast and North Central region. There, the total amount of damage that Bulgaria declares in all regions amounts to 311 million. the EUR, of which the funding approved by the European Fund was 10.5 million, as requested by the formula that I mentioned. The final amount of this funding was approved on 10 October 2014, and the decision to grant this funding by the European Commission itself was taken by decision of the European Commission on 23 March 2015. After we received this decision on 23 March this year, we announced an invitation to apply as early as March and all municipalities and institutions that had such applications submitted their applications. The projects have been evaluated, some of them have already been approved and the contracts for them are due to be concluded on 2 June. The second application lodged after the August 2014 disaster for Miziya. The amount of damage in the Northwestern region... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thirty seconds. ...is 77.5 million. Euros. The European Commission has adopted a decision to grant aid of almost 2 million. the maximum value that can be released. As a result of the disaster that struck us in January and February, on 24 April this year we also sent the third request. The total cost of the damage is 243 million. Euros. The value of approval according to the rules on which we can rely is about 12 million. lv. or a little over 6 million. euros, which we hope will be approved by October. For the first time, however, we have also made a precedent for asking the European Commission this time for an advance, because we see how much time it takes from the disaster to the release of the money. We've put in a request for an advance on these funds. We are counting on it to be approved so that we can begin the implementation of the projects this year and not, as the rules suggest, next year. I have had talks with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mrs. Kristalina Georgieva and the European Commissioner for Regional Policy, I hope for their support. Detailed information, perhaps with a written question, can be presented to you by districts, by municipalities, who, where, what he has applied for and whether it has been approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u214	Mrs. Ninova, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u215	Mrs. Pavlova, I will request a written response to such a breakdown by municipalities. I've been following this topic, and I'd like to get some information. However, I ask you to distract some speculations that are being made in flooded areas from many emissaries, all kinds of political ones. I assume that as local elections approach, this will deepen, and I would not want us to mislead people. I'm always traveling in flooded regions, so are you. Regularly what is heard by the people there is that they go to politicians and promise them European money to restore their houses, agricultural production, lost property and so on! Let's tell them from here, so they know that European money for the reconstruction of houses, properties, agricultural production or what they lost in personal quality will not be there! Will you confirm it from here so that they know it and do not succumb to such provocations and manipulations, because Europe for loss and damage to their private property money will not let them in?! That's my first question, if you can, in the back of your head, whether it's true or not. And secondly, some of the funding rules through the Fund say that where funds are not available, co-financing will be required. Will our country, municipalities or areas that will be beneficiaries of this money have the means to provide co-financing for projects? Because if we don't provide co-financing, we won't be able to complete damage recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, once again, let us say that the European Solidarity Fund is only one of the mechanisms available to support the people in the troubled regions. We can rely on the European Solidarity Fund when we have a disaster on a large scale or as a minimum regional disaster. As I have already mentioned, this is not the only European funding we can count on. And so far, the Regional Development Programme has had a Priority Axis for actions related to prevention of the risk of disasters and floods, including riverbed cleaning and others. Such measures are provided for in the Environment Programme until 2014. Such measures are also provided for in the Rural Development Programme. We can't say that there's no opposite, there are, there are different mechanisms, there are different ways. Everyone in their respective competences, each of the institutions - the Regional Ministry, the Environment and Agriculture - are the ones who can grant. With regard to specific types of damage. The damage caused to the infrastructure is in line with the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents. In terms of damage targeted in agricultural areas and others, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Fund is also providing funding. With regard to private buildings, as you know, and in our management programme, it is recorded, and the team of the Ministry of Finance is developing a special disaster pool to provide financing to both victims and their homes, as this is an inviolable private property, but each owner also has a commitment to insure his home against such disasters. The state helps and has helped where it can by the mechanisms that allow it, but this catastrophic pool will help us in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u218	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov on the implementation of a complex action on completion, construction and commissioning of the Cleaning Station for Drinking Waters. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u219	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Although at two different meetings of the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-Management, I have asked you twice about the state and possible course of the finishing works on the Drinking Water Cleaning Station in Sliven, the growing public interest in this problem, of high importance to the people in the Sliven region, is forcing me to place it publicly with the proper seriousness to you. Urgent action is needed to resolve it for the introduction of the station into operating mode in the foreseeable future, within the next 2 years. As an authorized and responsible representative of the state in "ViK" Ltd. Sliven and a responsible member of the government for providing the water supply of Bulgarian citizens, I ask you to answer the following question: what action plan can you propose, including the participation of Sliven Municipality in it, to complete the construction and commissioning of this site, with extremely important importance for the citizens of Sliven? More than 30 million were invested in the site. lv. in the period 2006 - 2009 and it is unacceptable, irresponsible and criminal to abandon unfinished, homeless and dysfunctional, and the health of citizens at constant risk for many years as users of this drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u220	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, I have already answered this question twice in a row. I'm ready to answer the third time if I have to. For this purpose today I also have a detailed financial breakdown of what is the state, so that we can express it once again from the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u222	Turn on the time, please, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u223	I'll try to keep up with the weather. Thank you very much. The first thing I have to start with is that in 2006 the contract for the construction of a drinking water treatment plant in Sliven was concluded at a value of 34 million. lv. The contract concluded in 2006 and therefore its implementation by 2009 is partially, is not fully completed, is incomplete. Yes, the paid funds are 30 million, but the station is not finished and is not operational, does not provide for a leading and extracting plumbing so that this treatment plant can work and be in service and for the benefit of the residents of Sliven who use clean drinking water. As I told you then, I also confirm that with this 34 million it is planned to build a treatment plant a museum, where there is no pipe that brings the dirty water and that takes the purified water. This is also the reason in 2009, analyzing all contracts concluded in the Ministry, the then team to freeze the completion of the station, because for its completion and then, to date, by an increased amount, considerable resources are needed from the state budget, as this station is financed entirely by the state budget to be able to be completed. Its completion under contract remains 4 million, but even if we pay them, and we put them in the budget for this and next year, for this year we have $2.7 million and 1.4 respectively for next year, we can finish. But with this money the station will not be finished, it is declared by the contractor and by the supervision of the site, which claim in their documentation officially in the Ministry that the minimum amount of resources for the museum itself to be finished is 10 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. with VAT, which includes the four million we are talking about available. The rest are additional activities that need to be carried out in order to comply with regulations and regulations, after which we will have a finished museum in the form of a drinking water treatment plant. In order for it to work, however, we need a leading and diverting plumbing. Their value is worth another 6 million if I see it correctly. The total value of the necessary funds shall be at least 16 million from now on, in order to enable the station to operate. These are the calculations that are presented to our attention. We predict the money in the budget. We'll make sure it's finished as far as we can. We'll look for additional funding in the budget to at least finish the station. By pre-investment research, including for Sliven District, we will rely on the specialists' teams to prescribe to us in particular what plumbing system to be carried out, or if Sliven Municipality decides to finance it with its own funds, let it do so so that this treatment plant is not a museum and that people in Sliven can drink clean water and be given the opportunity to drink clean water. It's not our irresponsible attitude. We see what contracts have been concluded, we see the result of the fact that unthinkable contracts are being concluded, which in their scope and content are not what is ultimately required to work such a serious facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u224	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with what I have heard because this is the first time that we are already talking about specific commitments that the government can undertake to continue working at a drinking water treatment station in Sliven. However, I would like to say that in the documentation that was prepared, adopted, on which it was worked in 2006 - 2007 are calculated means of connecting plumbing. I recommend that you reconsider this because I was surprised by what you said. Your predecessor at that time was recently adamant that he had planned the necessary funds in order to be completed with everything in it, which leads me to believe that we could continue in the preparation of the developed by you, with the participation of Sliven Municipality, a plan, so that in the foreseeable future, as I said in my inquiry, in the next 2 years the site could be completed. But with your commitments, I'm definitely saying I'm encouraged. I believe that representatives of the municipality of Sliven in the mayor's face will also be active in interacting with you to ensure the implementation of a drinking water treatment station in Sliven in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u226	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary? You don't. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Hussein Hafuzov concerning the procedure for the admission of administrative and territorial change, which is expressed in the accession of the villages of Rudnik and the Black Sea as neighborhoods of the city of Burgas. Mr. Hafuzov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u227	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In my capacity as MP from 2. the election district of Burgas, I received information from citizens about the upcoming procedure with which the village of Rudnik and the village of the Black Sea.. both villages in the municipality of Burgas, Burgas region will be declared as districts of the city of Bourgas. In this regard, I would like to be aware of what legal act and when will this idea be realized? What does this change require? Has a referendum or any form of public-public discussion been held with the participation of residents of these settlements and municipal leadership respectively? It is particularly important for me to know what is the opinion of the mayor of Burgas municipality, who is an indisputable professional in local government. It should be known that these two settlements are 15 km away from the city of Bourgas, i.e. quite remote. They're so miles away from Pomorie Municipality. For this reason, there are a lot of questions that are confusing. We know that in the country there are naturally many villages like settlements that erase themselves in time. That's dozens of them, they even talk about hundreds of them. What requires that we, with our decision, with a decision of the state respectively, wipe out two more large villages, living villages, where many people live, have many young people, have the prospect of developing accordingly as a village, as a settlement? What requires their deletion as villages and to be declared neighborhoods of the respective municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u228	Thank you, Mr. Hafuzov. For an answer, Minister Pavlova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u229	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hafuzov, as regulated in the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria, in art. Art. 32, Art. 20 the order by which a change or accession of one locality to another may be made is laid down. As required by the Law, this request must be supported by 25% of the voters or there must be a request from the mayor of the municipality to the municipal council. He discusses the request within two months and sends his decision to the district governor, who brings it to the portfolio ministry and through it to the Council of Ministers. I say the procedure I'm sure you know it, but the goal is to teach it to everyone who listens to our parliamentary control. What is the chronology of the situation with the two villages of Rudnik and the Black Sea regarding their request for accession as neighborhoods of Burgas? This procedure was started in 2010 by residents of the village of Rudnik when a petition was made to join this settlement as a district of Burgas. This petition was signed by 25% of voters according to the current voter list at that time in the village of Rudnik. The municipal council in Burgas on 29 March 2011 with Protocol No 47 supports this request and was submitted to the Ministry of Regional Development by the District Governor in May 2011 to submit a reasoned request for this change to the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Regional Development, familiarizing itself with the case file, returns the documentation back to the district governor to be completed and to remove inaccuracies in it. It was then found that in the land of the village of Rudnik is located the village of the Black Sea. It doesn't have its own land. It is part of the land of the village of Rudnik. This is the reason why it was necessary to take further action at the local level in order for the accession of the Black Sea as a district of Burgas to be a fact. An additional signature was collected and 25% of them were signed by the residents of the Black Sea village. The completed file in June 2014 was submitted again to the Ministry for examination. Subsequently, we have received and updated documentation from the district governor and the mayor of Burgas in support of the request and the decision of the Municipal Council. At the moment this file is completed in the Ministry and will be presented for consideration and final decision, according to the Law, by the Council of Ministers. In conclusion, I would point out that these settlements, which will no longer be villages, but districts of Burgas. This gives an additional opportunity for development, as the municipality of Burgas is a well-developed, progressive municipality that will enable these settlements for more investment, building, infrastructure. These settlements aren't that far away. At least with the information I have, 60% of people work and study in the city. This will give them opportunity and prospects for a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u230	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Hafuzov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, your answer raises a few more questions. If 25% of residents have such a desire, are all residents of the respective settlements informed of what is to come from here? For example, this will perhaps aggravate their budget to some extent because it will increase the amount of property tax due, the patent tax for commercial and other activities in the settlements is increased. Of course, there are positives, but there are negatives. Are they informed, do they have an informed choice in this decision when only 25% have signed? From 2010 to 2015, five years have passed since this procedure took place. There may be a change in the attitudes of the settlements. If these people are informed at the moment, perhaps they will give up that wish they initially stated. Moreover, I have information that in one of the signatures most of the residents of the village of Rudnik were not in the country. Hundreds lived and worked abroad in 2010, in 2011. In the same way. They learn later that there was such a procedure, but could not react in any way to have a public debate. So those 25% that initially agreed can be wavered. Of course, I do not claim that there is anything wrong or illegal in the procedure, but informed choice is the best approach. Because we don't know from here on out if they won't want the back trial, as long as their financial commitments to the municipality are aggravated. If possible, I will also receive part of the file, respectively the signature and other regulations and documents, in order to inform the residents of these settlements, provided that they address me with a request not only for information but also for assistance, because they do not fully agree with what is to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u232	A hole, Madam Secretary? You don't. We move on to a question from the National Representative Nevin Hassan about the construction and rehabilitation of the Zafirovo road. Here you go, Mrs. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, I am addressing you in connection with the implementation of the Project for Construction and Rehabilitation of the Roads Zafirovo As far as I know, in terms of the first time, Zafirovo, the Glavenitsa, Ocorsh, has been selected and the rehabilitation between Zafirovo and Glavinitsa has been carried out, but the Head Office must be rehabilitated. In connection with the second time, I know that the procedures for selecting a builder were being carried out under the Public Procurement Act, but I have no information as to whether they have ended. I am aware that we are talking about third-class roads, but they are extremely important to the population in the area. They are the links between the settlements and the municipal center of Dulovo. Children travel to schools, as well as workers and employees in the area. I would like to give an example: only on the road Roujno.. Partivitsa.. Pravda every working day travels more than 500 people to their jobs in the region, without including in this number of agricultural workers. These are real jobs provided by private businesses in the area. This traffic is constant. Both employers and workers and residents in these settlements are interested in improving the state of these roads. Not only because these are essential roads for them, but also from the point of view of the security of their movement and the minimization of the dangers to the life and health of travelers. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: is the funding provided for this year for the projects for construction and rehabilitation of the Zafirovo road If this funding is not provided, what are your expectations? When's that gonna happen? Is there any readiness to begin the implementation of the project for the section from Glavinitsa to Okorsh and the project for the road Rujno "Pravenitsa," and when will this happen? If construction is not ready to begin, what are the reasons for this, and when do you expect this to happen? When are projects for construction and rehabilitation of the Zafirovo road scheduled to be completed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Hassan. Come in for an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs Hassan, as you rightly pointed out, your question concerns two third-class roads. One is from Okorsch to Glavinitsa with an overall length of 53 km and the other from Rujno to Glavinitsa with a length of 23.5 km. It is a fact that outside the section, which was renovated with funds under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" worth 5.5 million. lv. The section from Zafirovo to Glavinitsa, a successfully implemented project under the Regional Development Programme, for its overall rehabilitation there are several more sections that are in poor condition and which require similar measures, an equivalent investment, or in particular for the section to the village of Rujno 6 km, which is currently included in the reserve list of Lot 75. For these projects, we count, if there is a free resource under the same programme, to finance 3.9 million. BGN, which is the indicative value of this project. And the other project is the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the section from Okorsch to Glavinitsa, 25 km, offered as a back-up list in Lot 82 and its indicative value of this section is 12.7 million. lv. For these two sections, given that they are in the reserve list, for which we expect to see whether a resource will be released under these projects that are in progress under the operational programme, as early as last year the tender procedures have been announced, which gives me the opportunity and flexibility in the presence of this resource to immediately finalise this procedure, to conclude a contract and the contractors to start their work immediately, because the term of the Operational Programme So this is one chance that we will try our best not to miss, if we have the opportunity, there is enough saved financial resources. If there is none, these sections and this direction will remain as a commitment of the state budget funds that we have on the line of ongoing repairs and maintenance, which we are assigning annually to the current repair companies with the selected four-year contracts and we will hope with the funds that we have there to the maximum extent that we will carry out activities related to ongoing repair, maintenance and repair of these seriously compromised sections of these two roads, from these two third-class roads. That's the information right now a little bit further in time. We will see what is the realization of regional development in the part of the Roads, so that I can give you more detailed information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u236	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova, for your answer. But I just want to assure you that, by the end of the year, if these districts don't happen to be repaired, we should be on the field by next year! If you haven't been through Dulovo Municipality recently, Silistra District, please come in. I say again: 500 workers every day in the morning and in the evening travel and over two or three buses with children to Dulovo municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Hassan. You won't enjoy your right to a hole. We are going to ask the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the government's policy regarding the crisis situation with the landslides in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The problem of landslides in Bulgaria escalates and the need to take radical measures to control the crisis situation is markedly tangible. Specific data are available to conclude that the problem of collapses and landslides will deepen in 2015. As a comparison it could be mentioned that 26 new landslides have formed in the country only for the first month and a half of this year, and according to data for previous years the average number of newly formed landslides is around 20, i.e. this year we have an increase in total numbers. According to various data, there is a serious danger that landslides will tear entire settlements away from the world and cause a number of destructions inside the country directly affecting households and people living in these areas. The districts of Smolyan, Burgas and Kardzhali face the most serious danger. There is expected to be an activation of problem zones around the roads of many of the distressing regions, and perhaps the most endangered are the prosthetics of the road networks in the Rhodope Mountains, given the geology of the mountain region there. The road network from Krichim to Dospat is placed in extreme potential danger. The districts of Kardzhali, Pazardzhik and Smolyan, as well as the region of Chepelare. I make one comment, Madam Minister, that my question was raised at the beginning of April, since the beginning of which more than a month and a half have passed. Given the difficult situation in the country, people not only from poor areas or potential ones, but also those from almost all settlements are interested in the government's general and long-term strategy to deal with or regulate the problem. In this regard, my question to you is this: from the general government strategy which measures are of a priority nature? How do you assess the coordination between agencies to deal with the crisis situation and to implement a preventive strategy to strengthen the most endangered points at risk? How do you assess financial collateralisation, adequacy and ability to manage a crisis of this magnitude? This, of course, includes the total financial mass at our disposal as a resource or the current cost management in the event of a new landslide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u240	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Belemezov! As previously in previous response, I confirm to you that the need for a comprehensive long-term vision, policy and programme regarding the prevention and limitation of landslides on the territory of the country, as well as erosion and abrasives on the Danube and Black Sea coast is not only an important priority in terms of developing a quality, comprehensive programme of measures, as we are working on, and we are now literally in the final rights. The next, even more important step, besides the programme, is the identification of short-term, medium-term and long-term measures and its financial security. As you noted and under the programme that we are about to submit at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers for its presentation and validation of this national long-term programme, it includes short-term measures by 2017, medium-term until 2018 and long-term by 2020, related to this process. If we look at the facts and the years back, but also literally from the last months of the beginning of this year, we see a trend in increasing the number of landslides that have been activated on the territory of the whole country. Only since the beginning of the year have we registered more than 20 new landslides, which as a number are in times more than the average year in 12 months have been registered in recent years, which really speaks of a significant percentage and amount of increase in these landslides. All of this is detailedly described as processes in our national programme as well as analyzing who these are, as you asked, critical, emergency, emergency and emergency measures. That is why detailed information itself by type of landslides and problem zones is distributed into three categories of first, second and third categories of areas that are urgent and critical and therefore the following categories that can be solved in the longer or medium term. The minimum necessary value for solving the problems by 2020 is over 890 million. Those in the first group of emergency, emergency, with targeted actions and measures are worth over 490 million. It's a huge resource. We also rely on the European Fund........................................................................................................ Surely these funds are extremely insufficient, so we as a country, together with the national representation, should think in the long run perhaps about creating a special fund and providing more targeted funding, as the budget that the Ministry has is about measures relating to monitoring, maintaining a register and monitoring of these active landslides, but not about measures relating to prevention or specified damage. You asked me about coordination. There is coordination, but what I find to be a bigger problem in this process is compliance or non-compliance with the laws. On purpose, I ordered a check by the DNCC authorities on how municipalities, local authorities and institutions on whose territory these landslides or actions related to erosion and abrasion were established how they comply with the law. The law clearly states that these territories should not be built. If it is built, the construction must be preceded by measures relating to strengthening these landslides and only then must the construction and appropriate monitoring of these processes be carried out. The data is really very disturbing. Of the checks carried out at 5354, the construction, of which only 277 are from first to third category and there are only 23 problems between them, 5077 construction are from fourth, fifth and sixth categories, which are the commitment of the municipalities. According to the law they must be agreed with the Ministry and given recommendations for strengthening. I want to tell you that of these 5000 constructions, almost 4,000 " 3987" were carried out without building papers, illegally, not complying with the Law on Construction and without being agreed with the Ministry. So out of 5,000 constructions, almost 4,000 have been done without these papers, without powers, which means that back in the years and to date the local authorities have not respected this commitment. This leads to construction in landslide, in critical areas. We see what is going on especially along the Black Sea coast, on the northern Black Sea coast, a massive descent, collapse of houses. In these areas, this construction should not be accessible if there is no plumbing, sewerage and strengthening, and there is none. The amendments to the Law on Construction of the Territory, which I have proposed and are already subject to consideration by the National Assembly, I have proposed much stricter control, bans on construction in such areas, especially when there is no plumbing and sewerage. I believe that this is also one of the steps and measures that we are obliged to take in this direction, as well as a number of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u242	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Belemezov, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. Indeed, when solving such a serious problem, combined measures are needed, including financing, and much narrower and better coordination at the state level between all the institutions and structures concerned, including, of course, working with people on the ground to introduce different preventive mechanisms to prevent such disasters from happening on the territory of our country. Rather, with a supplementary question, I would like to draw your attention to a fact. At the end of March in the Bulgarian media space was announced that the landslide formed in the section between Asenovgrad and Smolyan will be necessary for the regulation of the problem there within about 1 million. lv. from the Bulgarian budget, from taxpayers' money. As a result of these comments, many questions and questions were raised in the media from people in the nearby areas. Are these real amounts for solving this problem? Whether if a landslide happens in another part of their territory or in another part of Bulgaria such colossal amounts will be spent to solve these problems. Is there any way to optimize these processes? Could you disprove the information that clearing a specific area would take the state's resources within 1 million. lv.? Of course, this is a resource that needs to be calculated in relation to the specified operational processes that need to be carried out there. Rather, the doubts of the people from the different parts of the country are precisely in this direction: how exactly is this financial resource managed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u244	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mrs. Pavlova, for an answer to the two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Belemezov, I don't know what specific doubts. If you have any specific signals, of course, you can ask your specific question or send a signal to me to check. With regard to the two large landslides, along the road from Asenovgrad to Chepelare, in the case of the Yugovo Inn and at the 29th km, are large landslides, which, apart from the emergency cleaning itself, led to the need for additional blasts of rock mass, then to serious measures related to their strengthening, the design of which is being carried out and the activities themselves will be carried out, as I replied earlier to the MP Mrs. Yankova, within the framework of the existing treaty. In addition, we have assigned it to the contractor of the rehabilitation of this road section the lasting strengthening of these activities. The activities related to the strengthening of landslides are carried out after geological engineering studies, which analyse and provide concrete measures so that each landslide can be reflected on the basis, including quantitatively-valued accounts according to the unit prices of contracts with contractors are valued. At this point, I have no concerns or doubts, and I don't know where or who is causing such... The activities shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations, regulations, unit values and geological surveys of the region concerned. Let us not forget that only this time is the road connection with Smolyan region and therefore the necessary measures, especially in the case of disaster and emergency situations, when the road is closed, require 24-hour operating mode so that the machines can clear these terrains as quickly as possible. This is also the reason for mobilizing a much larger resource such as technology and human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u246	Thank you. You don't want to take any part in the comment. We move on to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov about providing low value for the Bulgarian tourist product offered for the summer season. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, regarding the current discussion in the last weeks in society on the prices and quality of tourist services, full provision of low value for the offered tourist product for Bulgarian and foreign guests, you have been sent a letter from the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association. The request of the Association is to consider the possibility of a zero concession fee and at the same time to replace the concessionaire with the concessionaire to offer the beach service at zero price. Madam Minister, is there any action taken by the Ministry of Regional Development to support the tourism industry for the upcoming summer season in relation to the concession on beaches? You know about the difficulties of the tourism industry with regard to requests for the upcoming summer tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u248	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, as regards the functions and competences of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as supporting the Council of Ministers in its role as concession holder under the Law on the Management of Sea Beaches on a concession, I can state, as provided for and regulated in the Law, as well as you are aware that any beach dedicated to concession is committed following an open procedure for the selection of concessionaires. Procedure in which concessionaires appear voluntarily with their offers and wins the one who has given the best offer on how he will manage, manage and what services he will offer for the relevant sea beach. It offers a price and, as you know, it is explicitly stated in the contract that regardless of the financial result of its activity for the financial year concerned within the 15-year concession period, these financial results are at its expense. The same contract as the Law does not provide for the possibility to suspend the concession fee by the concessionaire in the concession contract. By following the laws, I have no opportunity to re-initiate this particular procedure. It is very important to note two important facts. The first fact is that within the framework of the Law, within the requirements laid down by these concessionaires, they are under no obligation to place an umbrella or sunbeds or have no obligation to collect a fee for them. On the contrary, they may leave the beaches entirely for free use, not to place umbrellas or sunbeds, or not to collect a fee for them. Let us not forget that under the Law, under the terms of the contract with them, they have the right to set up 1% of moving sites, plus an additional 1% of commercial areas, and other commercial facilities, collecting the revenues from which they can invest, managing this beach. What the state has as a requirement for them is to place their sites, respecting the law and these 2% of the beach area, is to provide a minimum of 50% free area, medical care and lifeguards. Everything else is their decision to further aggravate the beachers or to collect a fee from the beachers. So no one's stopped and they're not gonna stop. On the contrary, I would appeal and support all concessionaires for this season, if they want to attract more tourists, to do so at the expense of better services in establishments, but free sunbeds and umbrellas. If they are willing to give up this activity, they can submit an application and we will cancel the concession contract with them. Then the beach will be left unguarded and it will be managed by the respective district manager, who in turn will have a commitment, as the district managers of the three districts "Burgas, Varna and Dobrich," to provide water rescue and maintenance of these beaches. Another argument. You are familiar with the measures taken by the Ministry of Tourism and the statements that we are all familiar with the Ministry. The growth of the tourist flow is expected by 4% and compensation for the reduced Russian tourist flow from other countries. This is the information you and I have. I hope so, and we all work together to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u250	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Madam Minister, you know why I'm asking you this question? You have coordination with the Prime Minister, you know what statements he made. As a matter of fact, with the possibility of parliamentary control, it became clear from your colleague Minister Angelkova that the tourist product in Bulgaria does not enjoy more requests than other years. On the contrary, Europe's largest tour operator Thomas Cooke is 25% less tourists this year. That you expect 4% growth [[a line from Minister Lilyana Pavlova]] or so you've heard from your colleague, talking about the lack of coordination between you two. [[Replicate from Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]] In any case, the tourism industry needs to feel aid from the state and from the management. You are the one who in the talks with the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association have caused such a question. You announced from the parliamentary platform that there is no commitment on the part of the concessionaire to have sunbeds, umbrellas and to take money for this service. What will you do to make it possible for the Bulgarian Black Sea coast to provide tourists during their holiday on the beaches themselves with a cheap tourist product, as in neighbouring countries that are our competitors, to provide tourists? In this respect, you have actually just told those in the tourism industry that the state will do nothing in support of the difficulties of those in the tourism industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u252	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Iankov, I am very glad that you are not my spokesperson, because if you interpret my words in this way, the information to the Bulgarian tourism industry will be very distorted. What I have said is: what is the requirement of the Law and what contracts they have signed. And what does the Ministry of Regional Development do? Once again, the Ministry of Regional Development has a commitment to support the activity of the concession by the Council of Ministers, but most importantly, it has a commitment in terms of infrastructure. It is precisely to support all who wish to use the Bulgarian Black Sea coast that we have undertaken the necessary repairs at the Motorway. [[Applause by MP Krasimir Jankov. Replicator: "Again the highways! "]] I also hope that the construction of the Hemus highway will be faster and more secure, on the one hand. On the other hand, let us not forget their commitment to the whole process, because on the territory of the local authorities on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast also happens activities in providing services, providing opportunities for tourists to feel more comfortable. What I think it is right to do and I will initiate is: the funds we collect from these concession fees to be spent in support of the concessionaires for providing better infrastructure that brings repair to the alleys, all these activities that I am sure the beneficiaries need to support the summer season, something that we are doing. In terms of coordination. We're coordinating. The time you asked your questions to date is a different time. I believe that the efforts of all of us at this time, whether we are the rulers and the opposition, should represent Bulgaria as a good destination. Interpretting my words from the stand with some negative to the Bulgarian hoteliers or restaurants does nothing to help the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u254	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Representative Manol Genov on the actions taken by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to provide management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities between the associations of water and water operators. He has the word Manol Genov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about the steps taken, I would say, and continuing actions by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to provide management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities between associations and water operators. Dear Minister, at parliamentary control on 11 November, I asked you a question about the preparation and signing of a contract to provide management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities between the water and water operators associations. Your response then outlined a horizon in time until April 2015, as according to the Ministry all assets that had to be described with a range of about 220 municipalities "then you said that these protocols were ready. By law they were to be transmitted by 30 June 2014, a smaller part of the protocols of the other municipalities remained. Under the cooperation agreement that the Ministry has with the World Bank team, they had to be reviewed by an independent auditor. There's a select auditor, as far as I know, he's checking. Has he checked these asset separation protocols yet? My question is as follows: do we have a contract drawn up and adopted, approved, rather; what action does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take for this half year on the preparation and signing of the contract, which will regulate the provision of water systems and facilities by the associations of operators? Why is the finalization of this treaty delayed? Do we have any concrete steps in this direction, bearing in mind that the existence of this treaty is one of the requirements of the European Commission, and it is directly linked to the implementation and absorption of the funds under the Operational Programme I would like to remind you that this treaty by law should be on initial schedules as early as the end of September last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u256	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! We discussed this matter with you a few months ago. Thank you for being correct, that neither by June, nor by September, nor by October last year, as required by the Law and, as commitments were made, nothing has been done on this matter. The contract has not been drawn up, the assets have not been described and has not been updated. The fact is that the process is long, the process is time-consuming, but progress has not been significant either. What have we done in recent months with the cooperation of the World Bank team, as you rightly noted? At the end of April, lists of assets and asset division were also provided and the independent company that conducted their review and made their revaluation accordingly. They were returned for further processing and error-fixing. This process continues at the moment because the errors found are many and have been made for many reasons back in time. You are a specialist in the sector and you know how difficult it is to make these assets, but the fact is that the lists are ready, they are checked. Yes, there are further details to clarify the details of them, but this is a process in which we already see that we are finally outside the technical and the activities that need to be done on this. As regards the contract, which is the basic text of the contract with associations. It is also ready, forwarded accordingly to the water operators and we are currently in a series of working meetings on its precision, as colleagues from the water sector, the managers of the water companies and all institutions involved in this process have their comments, disagreements, questions. In order not to exchange unnecessary letters and correspondence, we are conducting a series of meetings so that it can be clarified and refined. Parallel to this, as you know, the contract contains numerous applications that need to be re-pre-trimmed and clarified. I hope that by mid-summer it will be fully completed so that it can proceed to the formal part of its signature. It can happen, but are important two other elements - one is a change in the Water Act. It is currently under consideration in the Regional Commission and the Environment Committee. This amendment to the Water Act is vital because, if it does not come into force in the way it is proposed, or in the way in which you judge here in the National Assembly, we will not be able to conclude these contracts, because in the Law it is necessary to arrange for the way the networks and facilities which are public property, respectively by the regional administrations, and the texts relating to the land of Belt 1 of the sanitary zones around the water sources. These two texts in the Law, once adopted, will now give the legal basis for the conclusion of these contracts. Out of a total of 29 Associations on Water and Water 24 have already decided to consent to this inclusion, so I hope that the other five associations will successfully give this consent in the coming months so that we can make those processes that we have undertaken as a commitment to successfully complete them in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u258	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u259	Dear Minister, honourable Members, Mr Chairman! I realize that this really is a hard work, huge in volume. With your order on December 5th last year, you created a Water Sector Reform Council, which was supposed to have a meeting on January 5th, and every three months it was to be reported. Mrs. Secretary, press these people! They must work for the water reform. I know that a Minister of Regional Development and Public Works isn't the most important thing in the water sector, but there you have a team, you have people, they have to do their job. Do you understand that we are behind in the reform of the water sector? If it doesn't happen, you know better than I do that we can have problems using the funds under the Operational Programme. That's a fact, we all know that! True, the program has no final option, not approved. Let these people do their job. We've got representatives coming in. I know your order, I know the Council's composition of competent people, but they just have to work. When they come together, they must also take decisions to offer you approval. My second question is again about reform: what are the other associations going to do with them? We all know that in many places in the same territory we have several municipal plumbing operators. Do you have any idea of these associations that have not made decisions for the municipal water supply, whether they will accept to be part of the operator who operates on the same territory?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u260	Mr. Genov, thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I certainly push them and they work hard because they've done a lot of work in six months. Again, a lot of work has not been done for the previous 18, but more importantly, let's move forward. I think we should work in the sector on the stick and carrot principle. Reform is inevitable. I think everyone understood that and accepted the facts. It is inevitable because we need to consolidate the governance of the sector and in the 28 areas and respectively water territories to be chosen by one operator. What we are going to do right now is we are going to start the procedure for selecting a contractor for pre-investment studies for those areas that have already decided and those areas where we already have a gross and selected one operator for the whole area. They are 16 in number, after which we will phase out the award for the other areas, even though they are not grossed out, although they have not chosen one operator, because it is clear for all of us that after the approval in the coming weeks of the final version of the Environment Programme 2014-2020, it has the so-called success to Bulgaria, and it is to reform the sector, to have one operator, to be a beneficiary and to realize investment for the relevant area in the water sector. This is the way on which we are going, so those who do not want to break up do not want to have investment in the water sector, are those who actually harm citizens whose services must provide and improve, so this is to the detriment of the citizens and I hope that the Bulgarian citizens themselves will realise the need, the risk to which these operators expose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-05-26.u262	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This was the last question you answer in today's parliamentary control. You have fulfilled your obligation under the Constitution to answer questions and questions from the Members of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, the time is 17.00 and the scheduled time for work in today's National Assembly is over. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, 27 May 2015, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
