ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention Project of the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 1 to 3 July 2015. Today is the first Wednesday of July, which is why our agenda is formed in relation to the proposals of the parliamentary groups in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the rotation, today the first in this order is the group of ABB. They offer and this will be respectively our point 1 for today: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code (General draft drawn up on the basis of the bills adopted in the first vote) - continuation of last Wednesday's plenary session. In this order follows the parliamentary group of GERB, which offer: 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The other parliamentary groups have not made proposals in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. The other points that are at your attention from yesterday with the project for the Programme are as follows: 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. We are talking about the same joint bill with the condition that, today, within the legislative part of the plenary, we do not reach a final adoption of the proposals at second reading, to continue with them by the end of the week. 5. First vote on Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. The representatives of the National Assembly, Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, Velizar Enchev, Council of Ministers, Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. This will be point one for tomorrow, Thursday, with a general debate on the seven bills amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. A bill that's been in our weekly program for weeks. This time we'll get to his examination and vote. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Underground Treasures. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The same bill in the order of art. 50, para. 8 is proposed by GERB to be and will be respectively. 2 until today, if we have enough time in the legislative part of the program. That's why I'm offering it in the joint program by the end of the week. 9. First vote on the Bill on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Municipal Debt Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Criminal Court on the relocation of witnesses to the Court of Justice in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. (April 30th, adopted on the first vote.) 14. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 15. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014. 16. A bill for ratification of the Annex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 17. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Migration Policy Development Centre on the implementation of the project. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 18. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the avoidance of double taxation of income. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 19. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The blitz control provided for every first Wednesday of the month, today at 12:00 with the participation of Prime Minister Borisov and the four Deputy Prime Ministers. 20. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on its usual Friday, starting time 11:00 p.m. It is correct to remind me of the order of art. 50, para. 8 there is also a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP Left Bulgaria, I have simply missed when proposing the project program, which in this order offer: 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. Colleagues, we're voting. Vote 165 MPs: 148 against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. The proposals under art. 50, para. 3. First at the time was Mr. Petar Slavov to include a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act. He's in the program, Mr. Slavov, far enough ahead to get to him this week. A proposal from Mrs Cornelia Ninova, which also offers by order of para. 3, but it shall be included on the stronger basis of Article 3. 50, para. Eight in the program. It's included in the other part of the program at my suggestion. We're done with the program. Communication on the submitted bills and draft decisions on the time from 24 to 30 June 2015: A bill to supplement the Energy Act. Importers suppose Dimitar Tanev, Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev and Borislav Veliev. Leader of the Energy Commission. The Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. Leader of the Committee on Education and Science. Project for a solution for the opening of the Philial "Veliko Tarnovo," in the structure of the Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov Importer of the Council of Ministers. It will be watched by the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Health. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2014 in the field of postal services Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill to prevent corruption among those holding senior public positions. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Leader of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is also allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interests and parliamentary ethics, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Report on the implementation of the budget of the National Assembly for 2014. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Permanent Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 30 June 2015 in the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 20, para. 4 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector has received an annual report on the state of financial management, control and internal audit systems of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014. The report is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 30 June 2015 the National Assembly received information on the State aid costs for 2014 and submitted by the Minister of Finance on the basis of art. 6, para. 3 of the State Aid Act. In my letter, the material was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The National Statistical Institute received information on the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in June 2015, a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic producer prices in May 2015. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to our first point of the day: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. Report on the second reading of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee under the General Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. In the plenary sitting of 24 June 2015, we voted on the name, § 1, and spoke on § 2 for a second vote. The debate under Paragraph 2 is not over. I remind the Members of the National Assembly who have taken part in this paragraph, from which it follows that today they cannot make a request for speeches on it......................... Mr. Bajraktarov, Mr. Kanev, Mr. Gokov and Mr. Slavov. Mr. Ademov, come in. Are there any Members of Parliament wishing to take part in § 2? I recall by importer, it is about the proposal in art. 62, para. 3 the word "three days" to be replaced by "seven days." This is the period within which contracts should be disclosed in the RUSO, respectively in the NSI. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The proposal of the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev and Ruslan Toshev for dropping § 2 by importer is supported by the Commission. I therefore put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] I don't understand what's going on on the left. We're in voting mode. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject this paragraph in which the old situation remains, after the text of the importer has been removed and the time limit for the contract announcement remains three days, and not as is the proposal of the applicant seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u2	I can't vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u3	Wait, there's trouble with the consoles. Mr. Ivanov, you're pushing him so hard, there's no way to mark your voice. Well, a little more delicate! Were you able to vote? They voted 153 MPs: for 71, against 46, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Revoting Mrs. Angelova. [[Reference by the MP Svetlana Angelova away from the microphones. President Tsetska Tsacheva addressed her.]] Our proposal is to stay the old term. I have read very carefully the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev and Ruslan Toshev offer to be removed § 2, and § 2 by importer provides for the word "three days" to be replaced by "seven days." This proposal of the group of MPs from GERB is supported by the Commission, which means that, dropping the text of the importer, the old situation remains and the deadline remains three days. And you want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u4	I want a re-vote because I couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u5	Okay. Revoting, coworkers. [[Radio, noise and lines in GERB.]] Vote 161 MPs: 105, against 49, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u6	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev and Ruslan Toshev, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the National Representative Rumen Hristov: In § 3 concerning art. 114a, para. 3 to be amended as follows: A work contract may be concluded for occupations not requiring special qualification in basic economic activities. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In § 3 concerning art. 114a, para. 1 the words "not recognised' shall be replaced by "to be recognised'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced "True contract for short-term seasonal agricultural work Art. 114a. (1) A short-term seasonal agricultural work contract may be concluded between a worker and a registered farmer for one day's work and that time shall not be recognised as a service. (2) A worker may enter into employment contracts in total for not more than 90 days in one calendar year. (3) The labor contract under para. 1 can be concluded for non-special qualification professions in the main economic activity of the plantation only for processing plantations and harvesting of fruit, vegetables, pink colour and lavender. (4) The labor contract under para. 1 contains details of the parties, place of employment, name of the post, size of the remuneration, date of performance of the work, duration, start and end of the working day. The duration of the working time shall be equal to the full statutory duration. (5) The wage shall be paid personally to the worker for a receipt at the end of the working day. (6) On conclusion and termination of the employment contract under para. Article 1 shall not apply. 62, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 127, para. 1, t. Art. 4 and art. 128a, para. 3. (7) The terms and procedures for granting, registering and reporting employment contracts before the labour inspection shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, agreed with the Governor of the National Insurance Institute and with the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. The decree also establishes a model of employment contract under para. 1. (8) The workers who work under para. 1 shall be provided under conditions and by order laid down in the Social Security Code and in the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u7	Please, colleagues, for speeches. Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u8	Thank you, Madam President. It's not a work contract. It has no consequences. There can't be a single day's work contract. All those who have touched, though peripherally, are aware that this is absurd. There could be a civil contract for one day. It does not provide for any social security consequences. It doesn't make any sense to this text. What does a single day's work contract mean? Does he have the right to leave this worker? Are there any resulting from the Labour Code, protection rights and consequences of the employment contract? It is a simple civil contract which is named lightly after a work contract and does not give rise to these consequences. This is some kind of legal absurdity, and I don't think it makes any sense to conclude employment contracts in one day. In the previous paragraph, you voted on the time limit for registering the employment contract in the Labour Inspection. What's the point of registering? In order for the authorities to exercise control and control of labour law, only after one day is the employment contract, registering it after three days, it started in the morning and ended this relationship. There are a number of absurdities that require not to support this text. There is no obstacle to concluding a civil contract for such a type of short-term work relationship and this is the current practice. Moreover, there is no consequence of social security.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u9	There is! It's about retirement and unemployment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u10	There is a consequence of the obligation, but it is limited. The same effect may occur in the case of a civil contract where it has been carried out in accordance with the legislation. So this is an absolutely unnecessary text that confuses basic principles of labour law and contradicts, of course, international conventions. The work is one of the most regulated materials on a conventional basis. The International Labour Organisation. Why didn't these people come up with it, and now we're improvising here a single day's contract? It's just a civil contract, that's all. The part-time work can also be regulated by the civil law. These contracts can be registered, all social security consequences can occur, as for individuals working under a civil contract, the consequences are aligned. What's the point of doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u11	Any lines to Mr. Mikov? Mr. Nikolov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maybe Mr. Mikov is not aware of the technology, but in fact for those MPs who have not understood, we still need to clarify that these contracts are not registered in the NRA at first, so it doesn't matter what you say for a period of time, whether it will start one day or when we will register it. Why didn't you check in? Because the employer is a farmer. He goes to the Labor Inspectorate and buys, which means he pays the advance on these contracts, he's two-sided. He buys 5-10-100 contracts in one day. Do you understand? He's paying the advance. This is a new model we're trying to see if it works. And that, where you explain it, you are obviously not aware because you need to be made clear, but give us a chance to see if this works and just for agriculture. Personally, I'd be interested in the result. We will support this change in the Labour Code. There are positives, there are negatives, but rather with the advance payment of insurance when buying the contracts, and let's see what comes out. I think it will be good, because, as it is, some of these people are working, only in the current model, the gray economy, nothing is being paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u13	Second line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Mikov, you may not be aware of the provision of those individuals with whom this one-day contract is taking place. They will be provided in advance for the Pensions Fund and the Employment Accident and Professional Disease Fund. At the moment, many people work in agriculture without any employment contract, without a civil contract, as you suggest. It is in this way that these people will be legalized, that is, they will not work in the grey economy. Isn't that the point? All the time, for years, we as parliamentarians are struggling to bring people out of the gray economy. It is in this way, through the conclusion of this one-day work contract, that these people, many of whom receive social benefits, will be able to work officially and, above all, they will be provided, both socially and health insurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mikov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Nikolov, your experimental curiosity with labour legislation is touching. [[Elevator bell dings]] , only I don't know how they won't register, and in the seventh paragraph of the same text it says that the terms and conditions for providing, registering and reporting employment contracts are determined by a Minister's regulation? I mean, this is where the general order that we adopted earlier and put in some kind of illegal, legal order. Perhaps the minister is here, will explain how he will register when the contract is signed in the morning, the evening has ended the contract, the evening is broken, the next day he is released or the second hour the contract must be registered, so that all institutions which ensure compliance with the labour law within the eight-hour working day do something. Secondly, why isn't it considered a work experience the time this guy worked at? Why? It's a work contract, isn't it? So, you're working on a job contract, and you're not being recognized as an internship. This is absurd. What's going on with the right to leave? What if you have 90 days in a year? It's the attitude, understand, so you don't have to have a very deep and abstract thinking, you just have to be well-meaning. The relationship between an employer and a worker is permanent to form the labour relationship. This type of attitude in seasonal work is realized through civil contracts. They are also aligned by social security consequences, and on all other issues these things are aligned, as well as a contract of work. They are assimilated as social security consequences because you do not distinguish between social security consequences, health insurance consequences and employment relations. How can I explain it to you? How can I explain it to you? We need minimum knowledge and average well-meaning, so this experiment that you've designed under the motto of Lighting up the gray sector is not going to have any effect. Each employer will sign a contract in the morning, and he'll tear it up in the evening. [[Heckling]] Well, he's gonna tear it up, no need. Will he be able to register within the day and can the Labor Inspection check by nightfall? These are absurds you're making up, but keep up the experiments. We'll see later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we from the Patriotic Front have our remarks regarding art. 114a of the Labor Code. We have also expressed this opinion in the first vote. First of all, the text thus adopted by the importer makes no sense of the concept of a work contract, which is really aligned in a perverse or at least incomprehensible form of civil relations. However, honourable Members, it is only right to inform you that, first of all, the removal of the concept of work experience is legal and international agreements with the International Labour Organisation unacceptable withdrawal of labour rights, because service is a legal fact with the onset of rights of the worker or employee, such as the right to use paid annual leave under the current art. 155, para. 2 of the same Labour Code; additional remuneration for acquired service under art. 12, para. 1; of compensation for termination of employment due to sickness under art. 222, para. 2 of the Labour Code. It is for this reason that the legislator has also provided for art. 142 of the Labour Code, in which working hours are calculated in working days on a daily basis, i.e. the proposed version of art. 114a is in complete contradiction with existing members of the Labour Code, which is unacceptable. But there is something else that is much more disturbing, colleagues. Using the concept of a single-day service contract, which is formulated to last up to 90 days, eliminating the notion of a service contract and, above all, removing the notion of a working-time contract, thus legitimizing unacceptable exploitation, which will serve certain oligarchic interests, because in the Labour Code and in all international agreements between two working days, there must be the necessary time for rest. I am giving you one hypothesis: Imagine that the worker is employed for one day and that day according to the employer, since there is no working time, can last 15 . 16 working hours, because it is not respected for service, and there is no more working time, respectively. You know what we're gonna do?! I hope this time we can be reasonable, colleagues. Therefore, from the Patriotic Front we have made a proposal in which the time to be respected for service and accordingly to comply with the existing legal productions for working hours, and in the Bulgarian legislation under a 5-day working week it is 40 hours and in a 6-day "48 hours." I am convinced that Minister Ivaylo Kalfin as social minister will accept our proposals because they benefit the workers. Moreover, they allow for control, otherwise we will deprive even the Labour Inspection to carry out any control, because over 90% of this employment contract does not have the marks and elements of one anymore. He's going on something between a civil contract and a contract of employment. In fact, the Labour Inspection won't even have the power to exercise control. So, as I have said in the first vote, instead of achieving this positive effect, which has the marks of the proposed proposal, will have exactly the negative effect. Colleagues, the good in this case is to make the proposal not to be regarded as a service; rather, the opposite is to be taken into consideration as a service, as well as not to accept the proposal not to be taken into account as working hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to make a line to my colleague regarding the hypothesis you just gave us because in para. The 4th contract of employment under para. 1 contains details of the parties, place of work, place of employment, name of position, amount of remuneration, date of performance of work, duration of work, start and end of working day, and the duration of working time is equal to the full statutory duration, i.e. eight hours. So, colleague, your hypothesis at least in this part is dropped entirely because it is regulated in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I strongly disagree with the same part of your speech with which you name the wines and benefits of oligarchs that they will not be recognised as working internship under these contracts. No, Mr. Bajraktarov, profit from non-confession of service has only the largest oligarch of the state. This encourages precisely state-owned borrowing. On the one hand, when working on such a service contract, the one-day contract must be provided in fact, and that makes it the employer, they must make the corresponding pension contributions. Well, thank you. However, after that time this man has worked, he will not be able to use it as a retirement service. What's next? So, he's gonna get his pension money, but in the end, he's not gonna get a pension for the time he worked at. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u23	It's not like that. Internship is for retirement, and employment is not for pension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u24	In this case, in my opinion, the state must be correct and these days must also be recognised as a pension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Third line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Simeonov, you have absolutely reason, only I cannot call the state the biggest oligarch, given that this is a publicly known fact, at least in my opinion. [[Noise and lines.]] I can give a series of evidence to confirm your words. One of these evidences is the last letter from the National Revenue Agency, with which she admits that by 31 May she has to collect 546 million, and does nothing to collect them if I have to give real evidence, but I will stop here. Regarding the statement by my colleague Nikolov, he clearly does not know that one part of the relationship under the Labour Code is regulated by the Labour Book Regulation and internship. If we allow what Mr. Simeonov mentioned, it means not only through the law, but also with a subnormal act to happen things that Parliament cannot and has no chance to control them, to carry out any interference as a supreme institution. I'll read to you what art. 9 of the same Ordinance: The work experience is calculated in days, months and years. From here Mr. Simeonov is absolutely right about what you said. So the proposal we made from the Patriotic Front is extremely reasonable. It benefits this text to become working and, most importantly, to protect workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. To make a statement, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor, although at the risk of repeating myself, because it is very important what I will say in this House, given the speeches of the negotiators. Apparently, they didn't read the Law of the Council of Ministers. Those persons with whom the service contract will be concluded will be provided for the Fund of Pensions, the Fund of Labour Accident and Professional Disease. It's about getting the pension that's important. It's about internship. They will be recognized as an internship after they are paid the appropriate social security contributions. So what we have heard from the pre-speakers that these people, having the right to work 90 days a year, will not be provided and in time will not receive a pension, is not true. They will be provided and, after a time when they will retire, this will be recognized as an internship and will be able to receive pensions based on paid social security. And last but not least, these people will be provided with health care. There are such provisions in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you are thinking about the hypothesis 90 days, which is the maximum. If you had entered the figure of short-term employment contracts for seasonal employment, but by month, two months at least... It's absurd to have one day! 90 days isn't one day. If this is about three months in the season when working, this employment relationship could somehow be formed. You can't do that in one day. Understand that. It's not hard. Perhaps you should read the first part of the books on labour law. There are 10-15 pages that explain the meaning of the employment. The worker will not be protected. He's the weak side. That's why people invented labour law and separated it from civil law to protect workers. And what you're doing is for the benefit of the employers. They take the cob from the service concerned, sign the contract at night or don't sign the contract. You're not gonna light anything up. You confuse the overall system of labour law that was created to protect workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, it is still appropriate to remind you that this same Labour Code prohibits overtime in Bulgaria. In other words, with the text so proposed, we must legitimise and put in overtime, which is prohibited by the Labour Code, as there will be no accounting of working hours, there will be no respect for service. And what's more, you're kind of missing out on basic things like employee powers and rights. One of these powers of any worker given to him by law is to be able to sign a second employment contract. In the so made version submitted by the importer, this right, which gives the opportunity to promote employment, is categorically disappearing. Again, if 90 days are calculated as working hours and as working hours, it is almost 5 months of service. In 5 months of service, the worker has already acquired very serious powers, which we do not have the right to take away, because just a month ago, we accepted another proposal from the International Labour Organisation, which we oppose and become solidarity with the International Organisation for Non-exploitation of Human Labour. Do you have any idea what kind of collision we're going to get into if we take the text that way? I don't see why we have to continue this debate. We have made a very sensible proposal that makes the text work. There's nothing wrong with accepting it and voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mikov, in no way with the offer of contracts for one day we do not confuse people, nor do we confuse legislation. On the contrary, we must be flexible. Such contracts for one day are also available in other European countries. This is not a single case, it is not an exception only in Bulgaria. We have taken it according to the example of other European countries. It is not contrary to any international conventions of the IOC, nor to anything, as the Law of the Council of Ministers is discussed in a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. He was accepted by both employers and trade unions. There are no objections. What is wrong with being flexible, having different forms of employment, so that more people can work?! Aren't we all fighting to reduce unemployment so that more people are busy?! With these day-to-day contracts, we help people who have no job. Many of these unemployed people are on welfare. Thus, they help each other with money. On the other hand, we also help farmers to harvest. With regard to Mr. Bajraktarov, I believe that what you said is not in connection with the bill, with the reasons for the bill, which are set out. With regard to our proposal to remove working days. Why do we ask the text to remove working days? Because it would lead to a different interpretation of whether Saturday and Sunday are working days. This isn't about any overtime. If the worker has worked overtime, he will enjoy all the rights of the Labour Code and the employer will pay him overtime. What kind of overtime are you talking about?! Colleagues, please, let's stick to the bill, to the motives, not to distract the audience and say the wrong things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u35	To speak, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u36	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is good that this discussion, which did not take place at first reading, now attracts more attention. I then expressed my attitude to the proposed art. 114a, and I've asked the open questions. I understand that there is a certain need to legitimise the work of workers working in agriculture in seasonal activities. We must also make it clear that the quest for flexibility of working time, at all, of employment, should not be at the expense of certain security and respect for the principles of labour law. I know where the initiative for this text comes from by the Associations of Farmers. It is even older than the government itself, which is now proposing it. There is a certain rationality in it, but I suggest, if this text remains in it through several editorial changes to find a more successful solution that does not harm the people who will be doing this work. I make the following suggestions: in para. 1 words for one day shall be replaced by a period of not less than five working days; the word "work" shall be removed at the beginning of the sentence, and in para. 2 the number..90.......................................................................................................... I will base these proposals briefly. The fact that this provision is contained in the Labour Code is sufficient, because this is some kind of, to call it a However, let us not categorically define it as a work force because labour law uses timeless and fixed-term contracts. This contract, which is much shorter and more flexible, means that if we introduce the requirement for a few working days, then we cover one working week and drop the different discussions from the point of view of the rights they have employed under them. In addition, it should be objected to the frequent objection given that, if these are a few days, the employer may be harmed due to bad weather conditions.. We have not said whether these days will be next. If there are circumstances that hinder the consistent implementation of this work, the employer he has taken may, however, use it for such a short-term contract as he considers rational, respecting the basic requirements for the day-to-day and the week-to-week rest. The other proposal is that the maximum period of the accumulation of such contracts will not be more than a month and a half, because in this way you are derogating fixed-term contracts. If someone works two or three months, as you predict, why he does not enter into a contract of employment, but will enter into separate contracts with a build-up for one day, which may be three months per year, i.e. during the entire agricultural season, most often in summer, in this case, because it is a harvest. I am putting as a matter the possible removal of the last part of the sentence of para. 1 such time is not recognised as service. The idea must have been for these individuals to retain their social assistance rights so as to be stimulated and to work, which is why this time is not regarded as a service. I realize that there are two sides to this issue, and I therefore propose that the three editorial proposals I have made be voted on separately and that the proposal to drop the last part of para. 1 to be voted separately. If these proposals are not accepted, I no longer declare this as a proposal, because it is not editorial, but the title of the provision will, more precisely, be a gentleman under a contract for a day. But you know where this work is done. For this reason, let the flexible opportunity to be introduced be made in such a way as to make the employer's and the worker's interests sufficiently balanced. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u37	Mr. Stoilov, you only offer in para. 1 to work to fall, but to work there is in para. 3, para. Four?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u38	Yes, Madam President, everywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u39	We are talking about the wage fee in the very name of art. 114a is called a work contract. You're suggesting that all the work you do is fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u40	Everywhere to work to fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u41	And with the reward, what do we do?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u42	The Reward to stay is not a problem. Where the work contract is, the work contract is to fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u43	Everywhere in the text and in the name. - What's the line? Mrs. Svetla Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u44	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to make one more clarification. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov said that this worker will work 90 days with an employer. That's not true. The worker can work with a different employer every day, so we cannot accept these proposals. Every day he can work with a different employer or two days to work with one, then go to another five days to work, again to return to the old employer. We therefore insist on the text submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u45	Second line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague, we can't accept this proposal, it doesn't make any sense in your proposal. I'll tell you why. First, there are fixed-term contracts under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 It can apply to five, to ten, to twenty, that is, until the end of the job. The problem that occurs in agriculture, and what is the logic underlying the philosophy of change in this article? First of all, when the employer buys these contracts, not to call them the vouchers, he first pays the insurance advance, unlike the term contract with which he pays the end of the month. It could be there for a long time. Second, if the worker doesn't come to work the next day, what happens? He doesn't give him a second day, a second contract in one day. Otherwise, he'll fire him with the early one, won't he? Here the logic is the ease of the employer. May the employer come today five workers, tomorrow out of these five come three, they do not come to work for any reason to let those who are in stock. Either he needs more, or it's raining. I don't see the logic in a contract of employment to write the date of the 22nd, then we'll cross off the 25th because it rained and then we'll write the 28th. It doesn't make any sense. How will the payment be? Here the whole model is that the insurance is paid in advance and they are for every day not for five, for three, for eight days. He's paying them in advance. He's buying 200 or 10-15 contracts because he figured he'd need workers. In five days he'll go and buy it again because he's paying for it. Here is the moment when we will also see the economic effect of whether this will work by passing one calendar year, or one business year, to see what the revenue in the budget is in terms of the contributions from these so-called one-day contracts. Otherwise, there is an art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 "Open the Labour Code" is fully described for agriculture and temporary employment, but clearly does not work and new moments and ways of action are sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u47	Third line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my first speech, I missed the idea of this Law on the Change of the Labour Code. Finally, we are witnessing a proposal that takes over the country and the employers. After all, business is a bilateral process, and as we take care of the worker, so we also have to take care of the employer, so the ideology is very good. I disagree with Mr. Stoilov's statement that it should be at least five days. How come I as an employer, if I need, for example, a job to be done in two days, why do I have to commit to paying the corresponding five-day insurance and making a five-day contract? It doesn't make any sense. On the contrary, it sabotaged the basic idea of the Bill, in my opinion. We must leave the opportunity and the freedom of the employer to hire for one day. Secondly, you mentioned it yourself, Mr. Stoilov: If climate conditions get worse, what does a five-day contract mean? I work one day, the weather breaks, and it rains for three weeks. The agricultural work itself can be meaningless. A five-day contract must be paid. We should not reason wholesalely from the point of view of large farmers or employers. Let's think about those who hire one person. Thus, the Law will do a wonderful job. On the other hand, I take the occasion to disagree with Mr. Mikov's two-time statement that the evening can be broken and, in other words, not to bring in the corresponding contributions due to the state or not to pay the employee's money. So how do we do it? I thought one of the copies was in the worker. Elementary labor culture requires by making the contract to put it in his pocket, and how will he take it away from him to tear it up, I don't know. That's what I disagree with. I will use something else to disagree with the fact that the right to rent for one day is limited to 90 days. Why 90 days? Why not 365 days? I don't get it.!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u49	A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u50	Ms. Angelova, I realize that this contract can be with different employers, but it is still wrong for me with the accumulations, no matter how many employers, to exceed this period I propose. Because then the contract should really be concluded as a fixed and not with an countless number of employers for too many days to allow such contracts. Regarding Mr. Nikolov's objection. I am not opposed to him going and paying his contract, for which he paid the insurance, and that being paid at the end of each working day. That it will work for a few days does not interfere with the daily payment. The only question you're saying is, how is he gonna terminate the contract if there's some kind of non-compliance with the employee? There's an opportunity to end it. True, this may create some complication, but it may subsequently give this statement, which thus corrects the existing situation. I also argued that those days, when the dates are indicated, can be adjusted if there are objective circumstances that have imposed the change in the use of the contract. The other thing proposed by Mr. Simeonov to conclude these contracts in one day means that this employer can pressure not only the unconscious workers, but to negotiate remuneration on one day at some prices, the next will say: "Come on now I raise you either your norm or reduce your pay. Who wants to come next day. In other words, these contracts are created, even if there is an economic need and a desire on the part of the worker, that they cannot be implemented. If you were saying five days is a lot, let's make it more flexible in three days, we can have this discussion. But to say, let's allow in all sectors of production...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u51	It's not for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u52	No, that's Mr. Simeonov's proposal now. He says, "Why don't we do 360 days a year to work on contracts?" Mr. Simeonov, submit a proposal to the Labour Code to cancel it and return to this apothecary era when these are ordinary contracts, ordinary civil contracts that do not provide for any special conditions. The last statement that, you see, the state was the largest oligarch. Did you know that in agriculture, even where there is state property, there is no state production company? It is surprising to me that you may be the first nationalist party to deny the role of the state, because any nationalism implies some kind of strengthening of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u53	To speak, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u54	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, this proposal in this § 3 of the Council of Ministers creates a legal opportunity to conclude a contract of employment for short-term seasonal agricultural work between a worker and a registered farmer for one day. You claim that it will lighten up part of the economy, that the insured persons will increase by more than 100,000 people. This is interesting information and I am asking myself a question that should be asked to anyone interested in the state and problems of insurance in Bulgaria. One question which will hardly be answered is not this recognition of the state, but also of all those working so far in violation of the current Bulgarian legislation that nearly 100 000 people are the number of workers with whom no employment contracts have been signed each year and no insurance payments have been paid, and that is only in the sector of R &amp; D. The question is: what does the state do? The answer is: it changes legislation and legalizes violations. Along with all expectations and general support for the introduction of this one-day contract into the Labour Code, we must recognise that many ambiguities are being created and that the role of the fixed-term employment contract is being shifted as well, and it regulates more secure and clearer relations relating to the labour force being laid down for seasonal agricultural work. The provisions of art. 68 enable employers to enter into temporary contracts until a certain job is completed. This possibility is well regulated and there is no reason not to use it in seasonal agricultural workers. I have the feeling that the government and, Mr Minister, in your desire to show how much you are in line with the problems and are adequate to the demands of farmers, you are a little hasty and you are making some legislative changes that cannot be explicitly adopted and we cannot fail to get to the question: Is the legal form proposed? I will try to list several consequences that are my assumptions, of course, what will happen if the idea of a one-day contract is adopted. First of all, for the first time in the Bulgarian legislation it is proposed to introduce an employment contract for which no service is recognized. This is the deprivation of the working of all the positives that bring him the accumulation of work experience. These are: class, time served, leave, long-term unemployment benefits and so on. Of course, this is not good, but worse still, the precedent creates an opportunity to expand and extend the non-recognizion of service and other employment contracts. Secondly, it is a contract that guarantees no employment and no income. Thus, the proposed texts do not guarantee workers' rights. There are still pending issues with the norming of work and guaranteeing the payment of the work, work and pay on weekends, working clothing, personal protective equipment, training, briefings, transport and a number of such unexplained issues. Thirdly, the lack of guarantees for workers' rights leads, in turn, to low pay and uncertainty of income and employment. In no way does it contribute to reducing inequality, poverty and the desire to cover at least the minimum living need of the worker. Fourth, with the adoption of this idea, it is certain that the employer's obligation to notify the National Revenue Agency (NRA) at the time of the conclusion of a contract will not be made available to the employment contract register, and that there will be no electronic access to it. Hence the powers that the Inspection has will not be able to extend to these day contracts. Perhaps last but not least, many experts made an analogy with similar contracts introduced in Britain, initially for seasonal workers and students, subsequently spread over other categories of workers who are currently under serious criticism there. I suppose many Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups will support the proposal. I will refrain from supporting this proposal, although I very much wish it would work. But when I spelled out the minuses just now, I'm not optimistic in that direction. If the proposal is accepted because the euphoria is great.. how we calculate the grey economy, how money flows to insurance funds, we help farmers find labour, to work legally and socially supported. I hope that if this proposal is adopted after the deadline, because it is adopted by 31 December, a serious professional expert analysis of these contracts will be carried out... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing up, Madam President, just to finish the sentence. To assess the effect of workers and the loss of labour rights from the introduction of this one-day contract and only then to decide whether to continue the experiment or not. Dear Members of Parliament, think and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u55	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, an essential feature of an employment relationship, this is a repetition of a particular labour preservation. How in one day can you have a replay of a particular job, along with the other signs of working hours, place and character of work, work discipline and so on? That is why, according to the Labour Code, the worker is given the opportunity after signing the employment contract within 7 days to come or not to work. If it fails, the fixation is applied that it does not start and does not want to start this job. Therefore, a sufficient period of 7 days has been given, precisely in view of the durability of these employment relationships. Because now, by aligning this employment contract, these long-term relationships to each other..... the civil, and the contract for production, in this way the rights of the Bulgarian citizens, which they, under a civil contract, are required to be provided. More than that, in art. 114 it is clearly written that when a contract is concluded for certain working days of the month, they are recognised as service. That is not the case with this proposal either. That is, it is practically taken away from the worker the opportunity, when he pretends, when he does his work, to be recognized as a work experience. Indeed, the concepts of employment contract here are deeply confused, and I do not know if Prof. Witch heard what embarrassed him here, from this tribune, he's probably gonna break his diploma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u57	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u58	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Mr. Popov, you mentioned labour discipline in your speech. I just couldn't understand your attitude in this regard in relation to a day's work contract, I stress. What about punishments for violation of labour discipline, including remarks, including disciplinary dismissal within a day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u59	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Popov, I don't understand what your position against the employment contract protects in general and specifically the rights of the worker, because we are only talking about the worker here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u61	Because it will be provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u62	Wouldn't it be better for you, as a social party, to defend fully the human rights that works, its greater legal protection? I'm confused by your legal thesis and I don't share the references either. Wirchkov, not at all to the principles of labour law. It is obvious that this is about an accident relationship and the aim in it is to give maximum protection to the worker.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u63	The third line is Mr. Chavdar Georgiev. [[The chairmanship is taken over by Mr. Dimitar Glauchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Popov, explaining what is the difference on the right side of the Chamber between civil and labour contracts is clearly pointless. There is a particular purpose here and it is for the worker to be placed in much more severe terms when negotiating with the relevant farmer in agriculture, to have no opportunity to enjoy the protection of employment contracts, and that is obvious. Now let's explain that a labor contract for one day can't be there, they won't understand us. Colleagues, please take a look at the content of what we are doing as legal regulation! Understand, you can't settle employment relationships in just one day. You can't! These are long-term relationships, they require a certain protection and a certain structure of the contract to provide work. Such short-lived or as the coworker calls them, he has civil contracts about whether it was a contract of construction, whether it was a contract to pretend any other result and so on. But that's a different kind of relationship. There's no point in blurting out labour law, mixing it with civil law and doing nothing. Therefore, I ask you: consider voting on this text and do not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u65	You voted it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u66	Well, we have a right to change our minds. Isn't that right, Professor? Ademov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Popov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we have come to new achievements of labour law. I don't know that concept or how we're going to explain that in law and in labour law. It's more likely to lead to accidents in the labor process. This is regarding the replica of colleague Kirilov. Yes, indeed we are not only a social party, but we are also a socialist party, because there are many social parties, but unlike them we are socialist and in this way you are in fact depriving a large part of Bulgarian citizens of their legal rights when they pretend to work to be recognized as a service. Indeed, colleague Ermenkov, in order to be disciplinaryly dismissed you must not appear for at least three consecutive days at work. In one day, I do not know how we will do it for three days so that the employer can impose such a disciplinary penalty against a worker who has not shown up for work. Colleague Georgiev, it is difficult to explain to some people the difference between an employment contract and a civil contract. That's what you've been learning since the first, second year of law school. The building is close, I recommend going there.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u69	Labor Law in the fourth year, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am doing a procedure to end the debate. We've heard these, colleagues on the left repeat the same thing, how to explain that there is no notification of these contracts, they are day-to-day, that advance payments are paid. They know their own.. but how the worker will be shortened or fired or disciplined. Rubbish! It's all been said, it's all clear. If you read all the clauses downstairs and you don't like to read, but you talk in general, you will understand all the questions you ask. Please, a procedure to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u71	Back to Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u72	Madam President, I am making a reverse proposal, first of all, because the protection of labour is not nonsense of the rubbing machine. Please make a comment to your colleague. The second thing I would like to argue, my reverse proposal, is that the barbarisation of Bulgarian agriculture goes with full force and if today colleagues want to add new touches to this type of agriculture, to the idiotic exploitation of labor... [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] I apologize for the expression, please vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u73	Colleagues, we are about to vote on Mr. Vladislav Nikolov's procedural proposal to end the debate on § 3. Mr. Kalfin wants the floor on this paragraph. [[Noise and lines.]] Let us see what the result of the vote will be. Vote 134 MPs: 107 against 26, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kalfin, we're listening. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] The Minister has the right, by our rules, to take the floor at any time. I didn't call a vote. We're listening, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u74	Thank you, Madam President! I listened with great interest to the discussion on this proposal. It is indeed new because it has not taken place so far, including between first and second readings. I see that many colleagues from BSP have extreme positions on this text. There is no proposal between first and second readings, this should be noted. It seems that further enlightenment has come and now there is either a misunderstanding or a desire to use this text for various political purposes. I would like to explain two things that I would ask you to take very expertly. The first is that this text is not improvisation, it is not a product of clumsy work by state lawyers. This text is thought, discussed, viewed, including a trilateral dialogue supported by trade unions, supported by employers, discussed in public discussion, made many proposals and eventually joined the parliament. Secondly, this is about something that is specific. You are all MPs and you know the regions well. If I ask you in your region, how is each one of you processed and how is the harvest robbed, for example, where there is a lot of manual work, are you ready to answer? Is it then that when people are hired who are on welfare and who do not sign contracts so as not to lose their social benefits, this is less exploitation? [[Applause from GERB.]] Is that what we want to do? We're talking about destruction, Mr. Zablyanov is talking about ruining agriculture and so on. Lord Zablyanov, come on, show me There's no such thing. Yeah, employers have an interest. Why? Because by concluding this contract, their workers are insured by an accident at work. Anything can happen, and we see that such things happen, and there is such an insurance policy. Yeah, they're interested because the payment under this contract is recognized to him for expenses, and here we go into the normal accounting of business processes. Does the state have any interest? Yes, there is interest, because these contracts pay all the insurance in advance. Does the worker have any interest? There is, of course. He's insured, first of all, for his pension, he's got an internship, and that day that he's working counts as his pension counter. Second, it's provided for an occupational accident. If anything happens, he gets his insurance. Third, health care is provided. If anything happens at work and if he gets sick, he has insurance. Now all these things are gone. It can't be an employment contract. Why? Because you're saying, he should be charged leave. How are you going to charge a day's leave for a day's work, even more so, and which employer exactly is going to give him this leave? Come on, explain, since you insist on this happening. I'd be curious to see one such mechanism: working with one employer, counting as one working day of the year leave, that's a few hours, who exactly gives him this leave after that? [[Noise and lines.]] That's obviously absurd. That's just not gonna happen. The other thing: you say there is no way to impose disciplinary penalties. The bill clearly states that this is a full-time contract. Yeah, after that workday, if the worker doesn't work, he won't be hired the next day. What disciplinary penalties?...............................................................................................! Even if the employer kicks him out early, he'll get his full day's wages and no one takes that away from him. So when we talk about whose rights are protected, I argue that the rights of people working in agriculture are much more protected by this proposal that we are making than we are now. More than that. In the regulation, which also already, if parliament votes on this text today, is agreed and is about to appear in a very short time, it says that people do not lose their social benefits. The person who works on a daily contract, within those up to 90 days a year, does not lose the heating support, does not lose the social support he receives. He doesn't want to be brought up for incomes that people lose their support on. Now many people do not make contracts because for a day's work, for example in the cherry garden, he loses all the social benefits he has and the next day he has nowhere to work. Now these benefits are preserved and it is given the opportunity to officially, legally, make some money, working when it is in agriculture. Finally, this is one way to create jobs in this very village Mr. Zablyanov is talking about. Tell you who are the employers in the village today and I will tell you that with this decision they are increasing. Then, when one person says, "I am unemployed, because I have nothing to do to work. Here's what you can do, and you can work with insurance, keeping your rights. So don't twist things. Yes, day contracts, if they spread everywhere, create uncertainty, but here we are talking about mass activities that want a lot of people in a short period of time. It can't be permanent employment contracts. And whether it's three days, or five days, or one day, I don't think it's the most important content of the contract. They are very short-term contracts that protect the interests of all participants in the work process much better than this is currently being settled. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u75	Personal explanation, Mr. Jablyanov. [[Noise and lines.]] He was mentioned twice by Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u76	I didn't mean to, but twice it's too much. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Kalfin, it is impressive when representatives of a left-wing party, as you claim, argue in this unwise way the growing norm of exploitation of labour. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] The only thing I can tell you in this case is, first of all, that what I said you didn't understand. Not only have you not understood it, you have long defended it as a participant in the organisation of the foreman's movement in Komsomola. There was no greater exploitation than the work of the foremen in Komsomol, and you, as far as I know, were in charge of this organization. [[Noise and lines.]] So you have a relationship and a taste for this kind of work and please do not impose it on the day-to-day contracts. If you are trying to organize labor in the Bulgarian agriculture on foregrounds and return us to the time when people had a norm and didn't have a salary, and the commanders from Komsomol, to whom you were head, were ordering the labor of the foremen, thank you very much. Your Latifundist tendencies aren't from yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u77	Please, without qualifications, let's not get into philosophical arguments...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u78	No, they're not philosophical. Because Mr. Kalfin said that we didn't understand anything, to explain to him what we don't understand, because we were still following standards while he was in charge. The second thing I want to say is about the day-to-day contracts. One-day contracts, as we have learned from importers and their philosophy, must, above all, create an obligation for those who hire to contribute to the state insurance funds. What's the job protection, Mr. Kalfin?! What's the job protection? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I will say a historical argument "The Bulgarian chorbaji have rented their farmhouses from Gergyovden to Dimitrovden, not for one day and have not been stupider than the majority of GERB in parliament. [[Comments from GERB. Claps by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u79	Mr. Zablyanov, I pay attention to the analogies and qualifications you make in this Chamber. The debate is closed by a decision of the National Assembly. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov for § 3, which the Commission does not support. They voted 133 MPs: for 25, against 47, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 133 MPs: 44, against 43, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u80	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote, because I think a large part of my colleagues can see that Mr. Mikov is now entering, and they have not been able to vote. Moreover, the debate itself has shown that the text thus produced gives rise to many cases. This proposal that we have made deprives us of the possibility of hypotheses and, most importantly, it makes the text really work and its philosophy can be applied. I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u81	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 139 MPs: 46, against 52, abstentioned 41. The offer is not accepted. On a proposal for the editing of § 2 for the creation of art. 114a there have been editorial proposals in the hall of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. By the order of their offering. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114a, para. 1 Mr. Stoilov suggests that instead of the text in one day it should be less than 5 working days. We vote on this proposal by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. They voted 137 MPs: 21, against 83, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Stoilov's next offer is in para. 2 instead of.90 days..45 We are voting on this proposal. They voted 135 MPs: 25, against 78, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal of Mr. Stoilov is: everywhere in the name of art. 114a and its respective titles, where there is a work contract, a work contract to be filed and respectively a letter to be made with a capital letter. We are voting on the proposal to drop the concept of work. They voted 131 MPs: 19 against 78, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Stoilov's last offer is in para. 1 after one day's work, to put a point and to drop the text, which is not recognised as service. From an argument to the contrary this is the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov, who proposed and was not accepted is acknowledged. We are voting on Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal to drop the text, which is not recognised for service. They voted 139 MPs: 37 against 80, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of art. 114a and its version of the Commission report. They voted 137 MPs: 118, against 15, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u82	According to the next paragraph there is a proposal from the MP Ruslan Toshev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced by The employer's obligation to keep the employee's employment record Art. 128b. (1) The employer shall keep the employment record of each employee. (2) The employment record of the worker or employee shall be created upon entry into service and shall keep the documents relating to the occurrence, existence, modification and termination of the employment relationship. (3) The employee or the employee shall be entitled to receive certified copies of the documents held in accordance with art. 128a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u83	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposal to create the new art. 128b is the employer's obligation to keep the employee's employment record. I would like to stress that most employers are still holding such a dossier. Thus, more review is achieved and it is easier for the employer to provide the employee with documents in the file at his written request. In the version offered to the Members of the National Assembly, it is given freedom to the employer what documents should this file contain. In fact, it is designed to facilitate the work of the employer, both with the employee and with the control bodies. The ease is both for the employee and for the possibility of obtaining a copy of the documents that are stored. Here, in addition to the order for the occurrence of the employment service, it is appropriate to enter a certificate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 62, para. 3 of the NRA, the briefing made to the employee or employee, and so on. However, there must be no doubt in this dossier any additional agreements that alter the existing employment relationship. A change in remuneration, change in job description, temporary fulfilment of the duties of another employee, temporary change in the place of employment and others. In view of these arguments, it is my proposal to raise, exist and end the process of adding a request.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u85	In fact, the Commission has supported this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u86	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u87	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't either. I close the debates and we move on to the Commission's edited text of the importer for § 4 which, in the Commission's report, becomes § 3. 100 MPs voted: 99, against 1, no abstentions. The text of the Commission for § 3 of its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u88	Proposal from the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev: A new § 5 is being created. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 136a, para. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u89	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am coming before you to comment on a proposal which, in the Commission, has not found support, not because it is not correct, but rather by a number of misunderstandings and the different talking in the direction of whether certain provisions should be made towards small, micro-enterprises, big enterprises and so on. Article 136a to which this paragraph relates concerns the extension of working hours. Our proposal to me and my colleagues was from para. 1 in this Article to cancel sentence two, which concerns only one notification regime. All other texts in this Article 136a, which govern the way in which the employer is entitled to extend working hours, shall be retained. My request is that you support this proposal, unlike what has happened as a vote in the Commission, because this does not substantially change the principle and all the provisions that the employer is obliged to carry out when extending working hours does not change the protection and protection of workers and all those conditions under which they will fulfil extended working hours. The only thing we are changing is to remove an administrative procedure, an administrative burden for the employer to inform the Labour Inspection. The notification to the Inspection shall not result in any subsequent verification by it, shall not result in any action subsequent to the notification to the Inspection. The documents that the Inspection must check and see if all the implementation conditions for extension of working hours are met are found with the employer and it can always do the verification by entering the employer's check. It can check accordingly whether trade unions, workers' representatives have been consulted, whether the condition of not exceeding ten hours for the duration has been met, respectively whether this extension has been properly compensated in the week. However, all this, honourable Members, is irrelevant to the question of notification. I therefore ask you to support this proposal because we will create a relief for employers. At the same time, we will also create a relief for the Labour Inspection, which only receives these notifications and collects them in poplars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev and Ruslan Toshev to create a new § 5, which by the numbering of the Commission must be § 4, if adopted. The Commission does not support it. Vote 100 MPs: 77 against 16, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u93	It will actually be § 5, once we have accepted the previous one. We'll renumber them later. We'll continue with the report. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4 of the Commission's report on the condition that they will then be renumbered by the Final Texts. The text of the importer is supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 88, against 12, abstention 2. The text of the importer for § 5, supported by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u94	Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Nastimir Ananiev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Delchev and Boyka Marinska: a new § 5a is being created. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 2 the words "not of age' shall be deleted and after the word "servicemen' shall be added "not of age 16'.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u95	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with the corresponding content on the Commission report. Vote 105 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 was adopted together with the corresponding text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u97	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 6, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 102, against 2, no abstentions. The text of the importer for § 6 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u98	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u99	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 7, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The text of the importer for § 7 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u100	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u101	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 8, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: 98 against 13, abstention 1. The text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 8 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u102	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of our Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167a, para. 1 the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u103	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with a corresponding text on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: 98 against 15, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 together with the text proposed by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u104	Proposal by the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev and Ruslan Toshev to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172 points shall be placed after the words... at once or in parts.. and the text shall be deleted to the end...............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u105	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 together with the text proposed in its report. They voted 113 MPs: 112 against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 together with the text proposed in the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u106	Proposal from the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev and Ruslan Toshev. The proposal is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kircho Karagyov, Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Atanas Merdjanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 9, which becomes § 11. ..................................................... Article 173 is amended as follows: supposed to be used Art. 173. (1) The paid annual leave shall be granted by the worker or employee authorised in writing by the employer. (2) The employer shall be obliged to permit by their choice the use of part of the annual paid leave or unpaid leave under art. 160, para. 1 for the days of the respective religious feasts, but not more than the number of days for the Eastern Orthodox religious feasts under art. 154. (3) Days for the religious festivals of religion other than Eastern Orthodox shall be determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the official leadership of the respective religion. (4) The employer shall have the right to grant the paid annual leave to the worker or employee and without his consent during a stay of more than 5 working days, when using leave at the same time from all workers and employees, and in cases where the worker or employee after invitation from the employer has not requested his leave until the end of the calendar year for which he is due. (5) The employee shall use his paid annual leave until the end of the calendar year to which he relates. The employer shall be obliged to authorise the paid annual leave of the worker or employee by the end of the calendar year concerned, unless its use has been postponed in accordance with art. 176. In this case, the worker or employee shall be provided with the use of not less than half of the annual annual leave due for the calendar year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u107	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal §9, art. 173 to debate and vote after discussing and voting Hassan Ademov's proposal to create a new § 9c and to create § 10a. I propose now that we move on to discussions on Hasan Ademov's proposal to create § 9c and 10a and vote on them, because the result of the vote on these two paragraphs depends on the texts of art. 173. Then let's go back to § 9............................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u109	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Svetla Angelova. Please vote. Vote 116 MPs: 104 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u110	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov for the creation of § 9c: .................................................................................. Art. 176a is repealed. Dear Mr. President, this is a proposal concerning the so-called limitation period. It is agreed with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but after further discussions have taken place, after taking into account some of the risks posed by the adoption of this text, I withdraw this proposal. [[Applause from PF]] and I make further clarification that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has committed itself to the Regulation on working time, holidays and leave, to introduce a new text to oblige employers at the beginning of each calendar year to inform and inform employees what leave they are to use during this year in order not to lose the constitutional right to leave.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u111	That means you're withdrawing your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u112	Withdrawn, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u113	Let us vote on this because the proposal is supported by the Commission. I mean, we have to reject it now. I put to the vote the proposal made by Dr. Ademov and which he withdrew. Please vote. They voted 103 MPs: 12, against 66, abstention 25. The Commission's proposal, which has accepted the proposal of the MP Hasan Ademov, is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u114	Mr. Chairman, I just read you § 11 to create art. 173, which changes in the order in which I read you. There is now a discussion on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u115	That's right, §9, which becomes § 11. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Because we rejected Dr. Hasan Ademov's proposal for annulment of art. 176a and an editorial amendment must be made, namely in art. 176a, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 1.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u117	We're discussing art. 173 at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u118	Not in this paragraph, but in the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u119	All right, after art. 173 I'll do it then. Thank you. Then I'll do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u120	Colleagues, you have the floor for speeches under art. 173 or this is § 9 by importer, which may be § 11 by Commission. Do you have any comments? I won't. We are going to vote on § 9 by importer, edited by the Commission, which becomes § 11 by the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The Commission's text of the importer for § 9 which, in the Commission's report, becomes § 11, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u121	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov for the creation of § 9a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 words. Article 7 of the previous Article is replaced by Article 7 (c). 173, para. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u122	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with its respective content, according to the report on the same. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with the corresponding text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u123	Proposal from the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. Mr. Chairman, I'm withdrawing it in connection with what we received just now. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kircho Karagyov, Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Atanas Merdjanov: Paragraph 9a shall be created: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) Where leave is postponed or is not used until the end of the calendar year to which it relates, the employer shall ensure its use by the end of the following calendar year. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ..... 13................... 13......................................................... Article 176 is amended as follows: schedule of the use Art. 176. (1) The use of the annual leave paid may be postponed for the following calendar year from: 1. the employer for important production reasons under the condition of art. 173, para. 5 sentence third; 2. the worker or employee when taking another type of leave or at his request with the consent of the employer. (2) Where leave is postponed or is not used until the end of the calendar year to which it relates, the employer shall be obliged to ensure its use in the following calendar year, but no later than 6 months from the end of the calendar year for which it is due. (3) Where the employer has not authorised the use of leave in cases and within the time limits laid down in para. 2, the employee or employee shall have the right to determine the time of use himself by notifying the employer in writing at least 14 days in advance. Mr. Chairman, para. 4 I withdrew it just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u124	We voted to reject it. Statements? I won't. There is an unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov, Kircho Karagyov, Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Atanas Merdjanov. It is not supported by the Commission, we vote it first. Please vote. They voted 112 MPs: 27, against 59, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. And we are now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with the corresponding content, without the last para. 4 which we have already rejected by voting. They voted 111 MPs: 95 against 16, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u125	The next paragraph, Mr. President, has been voted, so we move on to § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u126	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 15. It is supported by the Commission. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 15, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u127	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov for the creation of a new § 10a. Mr. Chairman, I withdraw this proposal because it is related to the unacceptable proposal under art. 176a. It's about the statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u128	Furthermore, the Commission has again supported you. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16 with the content of the text which Mr. Ademov proposes. That is, we must now vote against this text by the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 16, which is relevant to Mr. Ademov's proposal, which he has now withdrawn, which means that we must reject it. They voted 101 MPs: for 6, against 75, abstention 20. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 16 with the corresponding text is rejected. [[Calling from the hall. Replices.]] Voices are absolutely enough for a quorum. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going back to my proposal. Due to the fact that the proposal to create a new § 9c and Article 9c has been rejected. 176a remained, I am making a procedural proposal to create a new paragraph, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 176a, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u130	Technical reference.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u131	I will repeat: "In art. 176a, para. 2 words. Four o'clock...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u132	Article 176a on the Commission's report or by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u133	In the Labour Code it has not been changed. Art. 176a remained in the Labour Code. In relation to the text voted on in art. 176, with the removal of para. 4 a correction is required in art. 176a.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u134	Do you have in front of you the text of art. 176a, acting now? Colleagues, I read the current text of art. 176a: Paid-up of the right to use (1) Where the annual leave paid or part thereof is not used until two years from the end of the year for which it is due, regardless of the reasons therefor, the right to use it shall be repaid by limitation. (2) When the paid annual leave is postponed under the conditions and under the terms of art. P.O. Box 76.A. 4, the right of the employee or employee of the employee of the employee of his or her use shall be paid by limitation after the end of two years of the year in which the reason for his or her non-use has expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u135	Al. To be replaced by................................................................................................... This is our editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u136	Yeah, since al. 4 with a previous vote, with a deliberate decision dropped out. You propose in art. 176a of the Labour Code, in para. 2 the reference to art. 176 to be to para. One, not al. 4. Do you understand what this is about?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u137	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u138	- What's the line? I won't. I put Mrs. Angelova's proposal to the vote. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u139	According to the next paragraph, a proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Milena Damyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 11, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence first, the word "the student' shall be replaced by the employee or employee. 2. In para. The second sentence is finally added in which the duration is determined according to the school curriculum. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The work contract with a training condition for students in vocational schools and vocational schools shall be concluded in accordance with Chapter 15, Section I. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in the sentence first, the word "the student' shall be replaced by the employee or employee. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the word "the student" shall be replaced by the employee or employee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u140	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 17 in its version on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u142	Anblok, we are voting on paragraphs 18 and 19 on the report and on the numbering of the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u143	Under § 14 there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Kanev, Georgi Yurukov, Zhelyo Boychev and Cornelia Ninova: Paragraph 14 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u144	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I felt obliged to explain what it was about, because the original proposal is ours, and then we propose that it be dropped. I want to tell you that we have analysed this proposal very thoroughly. We consulted with leading experts in labour law. We have come to know the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of the nationally represented trade union and employers' organizations on the proposal. Many of the experts' opinions were in favour of the proposal, but there were also doubts that these texts serve interests, and the satisfaction of these interests will affect fundamental rights of workers and employees, will damage the people of employment by withdrawing their rights. Experts believe that indeed the Law on Safety at Work is the special law, but also believe that the Labour Code also contains the general framework of labour relations, and the Law on Safety at Work regulates and introduces general principles for the prevention of occupational risks and the protection of health safety, the removal of risks and causes of occupational traumatism and occupational morbidity and so on. If we have reason to believe that this is enough to settle employment relations, it would be logical to cancel the entire Chapter 13th of the Labour Code, where health and safety conditions of work are regulated. This is, of course, totally unacceptable and unacceptable and largely undermines our motives for repealing the requirement for the employer to develop and validate rules for ensuring the health and safety of work in the undertaking on the grounds that this is regulated by the Law on Safety of Work, because also Article 3. 277 obliges the employer to develop and establish the rules for ensuring healthy and safe working conditions in the enterprise and to announce them and to declare them appropriately to the jobs. Although the obligation is set out in the Law on Safety at Work, the doubt is that it does not contain an identical employer's obligation in this direction. The unions view the proposal as unargumented and unfounded and as an attempt to give up any social responsibility and neglect of established labour standards. It is not a uniform and unambiguous support of employers' organisations on this proposal. Although importers are guided by good intentions and that once this employer's obligation in a special law has been settled, it is not necessary to rearrange it, but on the other hand, it is undoubtedly the employer's obligation to ensure health and safety at work, but it is considered by trade unions and experts that the first step needed to fulfil this obligation is to develop and validate rules and bring them to the knowledge of employees. This only guarantees the existence of art. 277 in the Labour Code. We can also consider the proposal in the context of the obligations adopted by us as a European state for a socially responsible economy as a basis for public development. Here the arguments are not in favour of the proposed proposal and after all that has been said, I ask you to accept our proposal, which we have made under this united bill of amendment and supplement to the Labour Code with which we propose in § 14, which cancels art. 227 of the Labor Code, drop it. Please support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u146	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u147	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to remind my fellow Members that, at the first vote, this text by the importer was supported by a full majority, without a single vote against and abstention. That's one. We from the Patriotic Front will support the text of the importer. More than that. I would like to explain to my fellow Members that in no way is the employer's obligation to ensure health and safety at work, but where will the employer have to be given a number of skills and educational skills in order to draw up such rules, and for this work there are relevant occupational health services, the relevant control bodies. And I repeat again, mostly in occupational medicine, and they are the ones who need to develop these rules, so the text is very good and we will support the text of the importer. Moreover, I see that with the proposals being made, it is somehow trying to push something lobbyist again, which I do not really want to imagine, only the correct text is the text of the importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u148	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Kanev, Gokov, Boychev and Ninova to drop § 14 by importer. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 23, Against 56, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u149	The formal reason for the request of the revoting is that some Members have failed to vote, but at the risk of violating the Rules, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u150	Please don't take any chances! Don't risk it, please! [[Radio and noise in the hall.]] You have a statement. We've all understood your point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u151	We take things, employees' rights, and we break the whole order. [[Loud noise.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u152	It's a re-vote. They voted 91 MPs: 22, Against 55, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I now submit to vote on the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer of § 14, which becomes § 20. We vote § 20 in his new numbering on the report. Vote 95 MPs: 78 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, here we will interrupt for a short break to prepare for blitz control, hoping to continue with the remaining few paragraphs of the Labour Code. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u153	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with the parliamentary control of art. 104 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which we conduct every first Wednesday of the month and where Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Deputy Prime Ministers Rumyana Bachvarova, Meglena Kuneva, Tomislav Donchev and Ivaylo Kalfin participate. I'm reminding you of the procedure. The MP shall be given the floor for a question two minutes, three minutes answer, reply and corresponding duplicate by the responsible prime minister or deputy prime minister. Two questions are being asked by a parliamentary group. As the Prime Minister has a commitment in the later minutes and hours today, I propose, when he reaches the order of a parliamentary group, if both questions are to him, that they be asked one after another first, so that, once he is finished with his answers, we release him from the blitz control and will accordingly be asked questions to the deputy prime ministers. First is the Parliamentary Group of GERB. I expect the first question if it is to Prime Minister Borisov. Is there a first question from GERB to the Prime Minister? I won't. First question from BSP left Bulgaria to the Prime Minister. Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable MPs! Dear Prime Minister, in 1999 a private business in healthcare was given the opportunity. For these 16 years, the money that citizens pay for health care has increased over 1,000 percent, separately around 45% above this money being paid under the table in private institutions, not through the Health Insurance Fund. The people are down by about 2 million. In the last five years, the money that goes from the Health Insurance Fund to private hospitals has doubled from 15% to 30%. In recent months, with the limits of state, public, public health institutions have been limited to receiving resources from the Health Insurance Fund. In this whole situation, an idea for privatization of state and municipal medical institutions is being introduced. The feeling is that consciously by limiting the opportunities to receive funds from the Health Insurance Fund and by introducing this Law now creates a situation that works for the benefit of private business in health, i.e. trade in life and health. It's the Constitution by art. 52 very clearly says that the state should ensure affordable medical care and free use of medical care, of course, when people pay their health contributions. So my question is also in relation to the adopted Bill: what is the government's policy regarding the privatization of consciously put into a difficult situation now state and municipal hospitals? I say hospitals, otherwise medical institutions, we know how it is under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Mikov, we were at the Conference of Presidents this morning with Minister Moskov. Mr. Stoilov from your parliamentary group was there. Together with Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, we have asked for support on the reforms we are doing in the pension system and in health care, as one has a horizon until 2037, the other 10 years ahead, and we are looking for a maximum public and, of course, parliamentary consensus on this issue. Mr. Moskov made a commitment before everyone to withdraw this draft law, although he has his arguments to seek support in all other areas to reform the system as much as possible. If your question were from the last sentence, I would repeat what you said in your statement, in the sense that within a few years, billions of dollars each raises costs in health care. More than 4 billion we are currently spending as a country and separately around 48% are paying for 8 billion in this system. Whether it's hospitals or hospitals, as you say, huge amounts of money! Indeed, the leaks in the Casa, the trails in private hospitals, and mostly costly ones, are the subject of this reform in the coming days, which we are going to debate. But in order not to spend your time, I step on what Minister Moskov told the Conference of Presidents this morning that he would withdraw this particular part so that there would be no tension in the other spheres. For them, as you say, not only have we not done well, but if they do not reform now, there will be 4.5 billion, because that is the mood, and still will not be enough. People in the same way, if you take the year-to-year newspapers, the headlines are the same: We always give, give and give, but in fact feedback to people says that they are not more satisfied than what they have as a service. If you accept this answer by stepping on what Minister Moskov said this morning, let's run out of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u157	The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I think he's bringing relief to society. I met the transcript from the Council of Ministers meeting, and I know this part was entered at the last minute. It is good that it is stated here that the government is no longer behind the privatisation, especially in this way, of parts of hospitals. It is clear that the winners will be privatized and the infectious ones will remain whole areas without infectious wards. I also accept this response as a call to plenary after the adoption of first reading, the privatisation part to be dropped, and we will make our contribution to the discussion, including critical when necessary, to try to get out of this difficult situation, outlined in 1999 in the same way. I also share your understanding on this matter. It is clear that other solutions should be sought, not through mechanical privatisation, which will only limit people in their access to health care, especially to this people, who is the poorest in Europe. He doesn't have any money. They always account for how it is in other countries, what it is in other countries. Here the state must remain in this sector and bear its responsibility, and of course, the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers must all bear their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u159	Eight billion and we're even somehow.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u160	Would you like to use the backrest, Prime Minister? No. If BSP's second question left Bulgaria is to the Prime Minister, please ask it now. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u161	Madam President, Prime Minister, Ministers! After the very important social theme of state responsibilities in health care, our next issue is on a sensitive national issue. You know that on Sunday the National Council of the Bulgarian Socialist Party adopted a Declaration against the deployment of heavy arms and troops in Bulgaria. We had the opportunity to discuss this subject recently in Parliament, too, because the first signals of these plans came from the NATO Force Commander in Europe, then they were officially confirmed by the United States Defence Minister, then some vague explanations were started by the defence and foreign ministers. Of course, the President is always very helpful in agreeing to such initiatives. We believe that the additional permanent deployment of such heavy weapons in Bulgaria does not help to increase our national security. We are simply becoming part of the line of bilateral opposition between the eastern flank of NATO and Russia, and even as a result of the war on the territory of Eastern Ukraine, we said that Bulgaria should in no way increase this conflict and get involved in it. Here I should also recall that on 12 June this year the one-year period expired, during which the Bulgarian government could ask for a re-negotiation of some of the terms of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the United States of America for cooperation in the military field. I do not know if you have taken anything, as you promised here before the National Assembly, but in the context of everything that has happened, I want you to clearly state your position.. Do you support these actions that express the ministers of the government and the Bulgarian President, or do you intend to stand a position according to which Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people do not consider Russia to be a military threat and consider to take account of the specifics of our country so that it has stability and security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u162	Stanishev speaks one thing and you speak another.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u163	Colleagues, please no lines. The comments on the towers, Mr. Ivanov. For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, the international situation is undoubtedly extremely critical. I don't even think it was like that during the Cold War. Then there were clearly regulated boundaries and basically the two pacts knew their places. We are now, firstly, in terms of financial and economic sanctions by the European Union and the United States, and, on the other hand, we are dealing with counter sanctions by Russia to other countries. To date, there are huge liabilities from everyone with this blabbering of weapons. This is the exact wording for me, because neither these 14 tanks, what the Minister of War reported to me, have made any significant contributions and can frighten someone or would pose a threat within the meaning of the real threat, but these are routine exercises that have been taking place not for the first time since 2006. They are currently making more impression because the situation is sharpened. Otherwise, they would have come to carry out their teachings. That's normal. In this respect, I stand behind what my ministers have said, because it is normal for our troops and our military to train, to learn, to know Western technology as well. It's no secret that we're still flying Russian planes, still driving Russian tanks for the most part. So as far as the scientist is concerned, that's what they are. Moreover, after completing their studies, they will go, as far as I know, to another exercise in Romania. So I'm not very sure and don't take it as fully confirmed. Otherwise, look, the situation is delicate, and so are sanctions. We can't help but support sanctions. It was no accident that 28 prime ministers, Chancellors, presidents in the European Union supported sanctions, knowing perfectly that they were bringing us losses. Such is the loyalty and necessity of the alliances in which we have chosen to be a member. You can see the enormous pressure the government has on replacing weapons, if you will. I'm sorry that Mr. Naydenov is gone, or at least I don't see him, will say, because I'm sure he's been told repeatedly that we need to replace the planes, we need to replace the radar, we need to replace a bunch of the equipment we have, which is worth billions. In the current situation, we, as an economy and as a state based on social affairs, all want the payment to become better, higher pensions, to give more money for deposits in agriculture and elsewhere, we are experiencing budget difficulties. I therefore, in general, support the President's decisions and speeches, of course. If we are a little more moderate in speech, I am far from the idea of playing the biggest hawks will benefit, but at the same time I am firmly convinced that at such times we must be loyal members of both NATO and the European Union. It is not pleasant, no country is comfortable with tanks and gobbits walking on its territory, but within the meaning of NATO, we are in this commitment and we are fulfilling it. That's what I can say. I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u165	The line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u166	Prime Minister, today's response is important because your own political responsibility to this decision is already attached. I do not know whether the President informs you of all his commitments in due time. I am referring to the NATO summit in Wales. Did he want someone to protect us from threats? Because unlike the Baltic countries and Poland, which put this issue themselves before the NATO allies, I believe that the situation in Bulgaria is very different so as not to say the opposite. If we are going to arrange ourselves in this primitive way in a common line, it will not bring us any good in the future. We understand that the army needs military training, including training. However, I fear that we will not move on to a regime of constant, continuous teachings, and then, in the form of a teaching, the result for which I have raised the question will be achieved. I think our responsible position requires Bulgaria to finally start forming its foreign policy. I am not saying to remove it from the context of the European Union and NATO, but if we are simply resonators of events and performers of foreign commands, Bulgaria will not solve its problems because they also start from foreign policy, go through energy and reach sensitive social issues. That's what our appeal is for. Participation in an organization means to put your point of view more strongly, to stand up for your interests and partners to comply with them. I fear that the rest will begin to give rise to massive negative sentiments in Bulgarian society against the organizations in which we are also involved against some of our partners. That has to be explained to them. To be consistent and loyal partners, it is about reciprocity, it is about taking into account the specifics within the framework of the common objectives and tasks. It is much more important to ask NATO if Bulgaria needs effective protection, whether it will be delivered in a timely manner and not with five, ten tanks, Gabbyks or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u167	A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, indeed, I am pleased and absolutely support your concern. I can assure you that according to both our treaty and our membership and the relations we have with NATO countries, Bulgaria enters the mandatory support and protection zone. God forbid we have to, there's someone to protect us. You are right that at this point we do not accept that there is a direct threat to us, and we have done nothing to contribute to the fall of aggression against us. So let us, at this point, limit ourselves to the teachings that are taking place. You're right. The partners have to comply with us, but we also have to comply with the arrangements we have agreed on. I say that this was in the distant year 2006, when we made similar commitments, which to date, I believe are correct and I absolutely maintain them. Our foreign minister is trying very hard. Let's not cause any sensation, but I did scold them with the minister of war because they went after the events. When it was already heard that there were similar tanks, then we started explaining what, why, and how. In such cases, prevention should be to come to parliament. I sent them both to parliament. I spoke to the president to ask him if he made any kind of commitment. As Head of State, he'll let me know if he wants to, if he wants to, he won't let me know. This is a separate institution and its right. The ministers, however, are obliged to inform me and are obliged to comply with the policy of the government, and it is that nothing can be secretly done by the Bulgarian society, by the Bulgarian parliament. They have to come and explain each of their engagements from the stands here, and not now I have to tell you what these tanks are about, where they're going, what they're going to do. They know the details of each arrangement, and they were at NATO meetings as individuals. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. At the last European Council was Mr. Stoltenberg and the Council after the NATO meeting came. Bulgaria is from the very few countries that do not fulfil its obligations for 2% of gross domestic product for arms. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] No, it's not much. Goranov and Nenchev and I had a lot of arguments on this topic and it turns out that the military were right. And I have publicly stated, I said it to the Council: firstly, we have things to do in the social spheres which concern every Bulgarian at the moment. In two or three years, when God willing, we have more money, then we'll rearm aviation and what's needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u169	We are moving on to the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! Under the Constitution, parliamentary control of the executive power is also the duty of the Members of the National Assembly. As far as the executive power is concerned, this is only an obligation for the executive power. My question to you is: when will you be ordered and since when will your ministers begin to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and, in particular, the obligation to answer questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly. Not every text, honourable Members, is the answer to a question. In this case, I will give you two such formal answers to questions I have asked. Thank you. [[The National Representative Mustafa Karadaye gives Prime Minister Boyko Borisov the questions and answers in writing.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadaye, just to say, the questions were probably addressed to the Ministry of Interior. Mrs. Bachvarova to be polite to answer as the Constitution commands. Otherwise, what can I tell you, you see how disciplined we are in the answers. At other times, I have set an example that in the previous term, when the blitz was introduced, opposition parties were only entitled to two questions to Oresharski, and he was gone because you asked him questions as he wanted. Let's talk with respect. Now, you see how many questions we answer not only on Wednesdays, but on Fridays. As you can see, we are not complaining, but trying to be as specific as possible and answer. In the same way the ministers neither have instructions to do the opposite, on the contrary, I know that each of them is very persistently preparing for parliamentary control. If there is any difference in the answers, let Mrs. Bachvarova answer again or ask her again. There is neither mood nor tendency to disrespect your questions or parliament. You can see that with so many parties in parliament, our only chance to move the major reforms and topics forward is to seek consent, because sometimes we also need 160 votes that we cannot raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u172	Since the question is essentially indirect to Mrs. Bachvarova, if you wish, Mr. Karadayi, in the remaining minute of time for an answer to be given?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u174	You don't have a line. He doesn't have an ass. Next up is the Reformation Block Group with questions to the prime minister. Mr. Willy Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u175	Dear Madam President, Mr. Borisov, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to you, Mr. Borisov. Of course, Mrs. Bachvarova can also answer, as it concerns the security policy of small settlements. In recent weeks, I have held several meetings in various municipalities of the country with mayors of small settlements regarding security in all its aspects, both in terms of criminal and domestic crime and in terms of security for the conservation of agricultural property; both in terms of road security and security for the conservation of agricultural crop from hail. It turns out that in this sector it can be said, and this is the view of mayors of small towns, that the policy that is being conducted at government level is considered to be completely ruined............................................................. Fifty-five per cent of heavy traffic accidents are carried out in small settlements and due to lack of good marking, lighting, road alarms. My question is this: are we providing for a long-term policy on solving security issues in small settlements? I will say what the small mayors have in mind is a long-term program for providing video surveillance in all small settlements with a population of over 100 people in order to cover all small settlements by 2020; creating police hubs; small police stations that can serve five to ten settlements very quickly and intervene when there is a crime when there is a theft of agricultural production; road alarms and markings in the main roads that pass through the settlements, and therefore proposals that, unfortunately, require a huge resource, but also want a government commitment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In any case, if we conduct such a policy and if we finance it long-term, all this will come back with benefits for the budget and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u176	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u177	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, the question you asked me coincides with the topic of the announced public hearing today in the composition of the Internal Parliamentary Commission. I am prepared to respond very long and specifically to what you are asking me right now. From this tribune I announced a little more than 2-3 weeks ago, the establishment of a Council, the renewal of the work of the Council on Prevention and Fight against Conventional Crime, which next week has to start its work and which will be responsible as I have announced it, I do not know if you missed it in the Chamber on the strategic policies on this topic. I would like to say that when we take measures to combat crime, we do not initially divide settlements into small and large and so on, we apply measures that are in an overall system and when you quote an anonymous person's opinion from anonymous settlements, this sounds more like the start of an election campaign than a serious parliamentary issue. [[Applause from GERB.]] If you have specific cases, specific persons, very please present them to me to give you a specific answer. Otherwise, I have to get into a political debate with you, because the opinions of anonymous people I would not like to comment on from this tribune. We have a system of measures that are already being implemented. Something else I suppose you should know as a long-standing, I think you're an advisor in Sofia, that video surveillance topics are the responsibility of the local authorities. In this direction, although the Ministry of Interior cannot ensure the full construction of these systems, in the last two weeks we have taken a series of measures so as to encourage and secure this process with methodological guidance, talks with mayors, with an analysis of where funding can be found, with efforts by the Ministry of Interior to describe the current state of surveillance and to provide guidance on how to develop and not simply develop them, but related to individual structures that can monitor them. Please come to the hearing so you can hear the details. I can tell you that we are actively working in this direction, we are on the basis of an analysis of a locality, in a locality. With regard to all risk factors for crime and building video surveillance, I can answer to you for every single settlement. Let us respect the parliamentary tone and not go into specific explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u178	The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u179	Thank you, Madam President. I strongly disagree that I share the words and opinions of anonymous people. Absolutely not. I will quote immediately, from yesterday's meeting in Tarnovo, the Chairman of the Association of Bulgarian Small Mayors, who said, I quote: "Because the government has not heard us for years and has not taken into account our proposals, we have decided to dissolve the Association of Small Mayors, even though we are working well with the National Association of Municipalities. That's not anonymous. I will present to your Commission in summary the views of at least 20 small mayors on these issues. On security issues, I also include the outdated Agricultural Property Conservation Act, which is more than 40 years old. So there are complex things that need to be done in this area. I do not agree that this is not the issue of control today, precisely at this point. Madam Minister, don't transfer responsibility for video surveillance entirely to the municipalities. It must be carried out in interaction with the state. Police presence must be provided by the state. Do not transfer the commitment of municipal police entirely to the municipalities. This must be done together with the state. It's a very serious matter. I hope this discussion, which will start today, will have results in a very short time, because the Bulgarian village should not be underestimated, it creates a huge part of the gross added value and a huge part of the employment in Bulgaria. There are over 2 million people living there. people with positive migration in recent years to villages. Once we give security to the villages, there will be safe investments, and all this will come back in favor of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u180	Will you use a hole, Mrs. Bachvarova, or will you answer the hearing this afternoon at the Commission? You're keeping an answer here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u181	I'm taking this opportunity to clarify something. The association that you are referring to does not know why, in this way, she has decided to name herself.. She has not addressed the Ministry of Interior, nor me, with the requests to indicate as a basis the refusal of the State to cooperate in order to disband herself. Excuse me, but I am very worried about an organization that decides to disband itself in the event of an institution that has never addressed it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u182	From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, a question to Prime Minister Borisov will ask Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u183	Dear Madam President, dear Prime Minister, dear Ministers! The question I want to ask is related to the security of the state. You know, more than a month ago, we talked about seven problems that were supposed to receive public disclosure and a solution by July 1st. In part of the questions we have answers, we are satisfied, but the question that concerns society, and as you can see, the whole room is the topic of domestic crime. The fact is that for years at the Ministry of Interior on this issue there was not a very clearly invented concept. Domestic crime was treated as part of organized crime, which is not really the case, reacted to a piece. We also saw how the previous government reacted. There's an accident, there's a gendarmerie, there's people there, and while they're there, the problem is solved, the problem is gone, the problems are reopened. My question to you is: what are the specific measures? Because what was sent to me by the Home Secretary is only part of it. What are the specific measures related to the reorganization of personnel, to ensure a more serious presence of permanent police forces in small settlements, the topics related to prevention of this domestic criminal contingent, video surveillance and so on? There are positive examples in this regard. I have always said that Red Beach is a positive example in this regard. I need more funds.. my colleagues are telling me, because it is clear that with the funds in this budget, everything that awaits the society, which is also waiting for the Patriotic Front, which I hope, and you wish to happen, with this current budget, with these limited funds of the Ministry of Interior, will not happen. The issues with domestic crime: how much does the government really see this problem as a major priority, the concrete measures and the most important problem, will there be additional funds to solve these problems, as technical measures and personnel problems are solved with additional resources in the security budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u184	For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I know that a lot of measures have been taken by the Interior Minister, are being taken, but I am taking your last words on the budget. You know that the previous government increased by 200 million wages in violation of the Law without any financial justification. Within this budget, we pay 200 million more, with huge deficits. We have made huge efforts and we are raising a lot more money in the budget, and that is also a fact. The last Council of Ministers paid 30 million for the fences. Huge money is spent in this area. However, if you want it to have a real effect on the fight against crime, we need to shorten the trial. If we are doing judicial reform, this must be the main part of judicial reform. For years, decades, we talk about people with pending cases, 20s, 30s. Now Sandanski is the brightest example a man with over 20 pending cases kills a man! For years the first instance, second instance, third instance have been extended. There are also the same problems in one act, the second act, the third act. The same problems we have at the DMV one act, a second act, a third act until the expiration date or the so-called legal term. So, what's the prevention of a driver without a license?! They catch him today, they let him go, he drives again tomorrow! I'm not saying to return the brick, but it's had a preventative effect. You get caught today and you take responsibility. The huge scourge of car thieves and home and apartment robbers. Call the director of the police or Mrs. Bachvarova to bring, they will give you the entire contingent with over 20 cases, 40 cases, 50 pending cases, and the circle is corrupted. The moment the police hold him, the statistics of the Ministry of Interior say: "We have a greater disclosure rate, only the final effect of a conviction is 1.. 2%. I see Mr. Atanasov is here. We discussed it a lot at the time, and that's a fact. They're all out there. Let's cut the lawsuit short! Make a change in the law. We've prepared, we've assigned him and these people to go to jail. Okay, video surveillance, we're gonna give money, we're gonna do it. We'll shoot it for the 25th time from Sandanski. So what?! The lawyer will go, with all due respect to the lawyers, release him, and he'll go steal again to pay the tuition. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What will video surveillance tell us when we keep the same person on the 26th time?! What's the video surveillance gonna tell us?! Okay, we'll do it. We'll pawn it. If we are safe and sound, you will vote on the budget. If you say so, we'll give another billion to the Ministry of Interior. As many as you like! This will be at the expense of either farmers or health care or education, we will give them wherever you say you decide, you, not us! We'll propose, you decide. If we do not make changes in time limits and immediate implementation, the prevention will be felt that by committing a crime you will either go to jail or jail or a large cash fine. But to feel it in the moment, especially in such crimes on the way [[the President signals that time has run out]] , violations of these laws and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u186	The line is Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u187	Regarding what you said, you're right. Here the question of the so-called minor crimes must also be touched, as one person commits a bunch of crimes, they are assessed as minor and no one is chasing him under any responsibility. My question was directed in the other part "Cleanly reorganized measures in the Ministry of Interior" regarding providing police presence in these areas. This can happen in several ways. The first way is when we finally solve the border security problem. Here, thanks to the support of the Patriotic Front and the other colleagues, the Public Procurement Act has been amended and things are happening. However, we believe that the end of August as a deadline is a little late. Secondly, there goes a huge financial and human resource.. police, to guard the border. This issue can be resolved when the competition for these 200 border police officers is speeded up and another 500 employees of a contract of employment can be assigned to local people in order not to have to post police officers much cheaper will come out and we will save money, and those policemen who are now posted to stay in their places and do their jobs more efficiently. On the other hand, the reorganization of human resources, a change in the organisation of patrol posting activities. I'm talking about internal affairs. There is still the fear in the policeman that when he performs his duties conscientiously, he will be punished by all sorts of human rights defenders and his superiors, so that they do not have problems with international and any other organizations, the ordinary policeman is punished. He must be certain that by doing his work by law, using his powers, he will not suffer. Finally, I say again, the security of the state costs money, the security of the citizens also costs money. At first, we can do these things by reorganizing existing personnel and potential. That was my question. As far as other things are concerned, they are legislative changes. We also bear them in mind, as in this respect the outrage is indeed great. It's a minor crime. It's small for one person with 1,000 leva. income, but when a pensioner steals the last five hens or the winter, it's a very significant crime for him, since he can't survive the winter. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Here the blame is no longer in the Ministry of Interior, it is in another direction, but it is part of the whole complex of measures. We're talking about a complex of measures. One part of them is the legislative work of Parliament and the government, of course, but purely organisational and reorganization measures in the Ministry of Interior are the priority of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u188	Would you like to use a hole, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, both things you talk about must act simultaneously and in parallel, because otherwise it is simply pointless. You're absolutely right. Mrs. Bachvarova, later or if you have a question for her, to tell you how many contests, how many people have been reassigned, the figures I know approximately, but to answer you. If, at the same time, what is being taken as measures does not change and these parts of the Law, these measures are absolutely meaningless. It'll just increase the indication of these crimes, we'll have more statistics, but it won't have the effect we're looking for. The effect is, when you catch him today, stealing a winter or something small, whether it's fine, whether it's second or third, to get the punishment immediately. On the second time, he's no longer diminutive. The third one is ridiculous. The same problem we have in customs with intruders, the same problem we have with the cataclysers who tell us, the same problem we have with tax records after protocol, act after act for years! That's my request. And what's up to us, we'll do it. Today I have assigned Minister Ivanov and Rumyana Bachvarova to prepare and come here to parliament with these measures and with these proposals of ours, and you discuss them and if you say so, support them. Right now it's golden time to be a lawyer, whatever... [[Elevator bell dings]] With all due respect to the lawyers, there shouldn't be any protest letter by tonight. I'm just saying we should make the law so it's still 50-50 chances and sue them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u190	If the second question from the Patriotic Front Group is to the Prime Minister, please ask it now. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u191	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister! My question is related to the topic The Bulgarians in Ukraine. I ask it directly to you as prime minister in view that more than five months since it was decided by the Council of Ministers to grant humanitarian aid to the Bulgarians in Ukraine, such assistance has not arrived there. There are several tens of thousands of Bulgarians living in conflict areas and in the border regions of Ukraine, where the conflict is, there are also tens of thousands of Bulgarians. For these people from the Bulgarian government, aid of 100 thousand was voted. EUR with a view to helping with the most necessary things. Unfortunately, for five months Bulgaria and the Foreign Ministry cannot be organized and this assistance can be obtained, transported to Ukraine, and there are different excuses. The same topic concerning the problem with the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Interior is for those hundreds of Bulgarians from Ukraine who sought asylum in Bulgaria, for which no mechanism was found to receive permanent residence in Bulgaria because, see, they had to return to Ukraine, when they had already come to Bulgaria. A group was created between different institutions to solve this problem. This problem hasn't been solved for months anyway. The question and desire of the Patriotic Front is this: Prime Minister, press them to do their job. It is a shame that we cannot send humanitarian aid to Ukraine for the Bulgarians there, provided that Poland, Germany and the other countries that adopted such decisions did so immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u192	For an answer, the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll check, and if they haven't wired the money, they'll transfer it. At this time on this topic neither the Agency for Bulgarians abroad nor anyone else has informed me, so thank you for this information. Within these days, this will be over by the end of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u194	The line, Mr. Angelov. [[Reply of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov to the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u195	It's not just up to the Agency. [[Heckling]] You guys check who's in charge of what. I didn't ask for a reason...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u196	This is a specific issue, not politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u197	Colleagues, please make a second remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u198	Mr. Prime Minister, the money has been allocated, but it is simply not purchased the necessary things that are humanitarian aid, and it is not agreed with the Ukrainian authorities that it will arrive in Ukraine. Since you have not affected the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, I will say about it that all these Bulgarian citizens from Ukraine, who came to Bulgaria and needed a document of Bulgarian origin, have received it. From then on, according to the Foreign Ministry, they cannot be issued a visa for the territory of Bulgaria to receive permanent residence and stay in Bulgaria. These people don't have any means to go back, and if they come back, most of them are young men, they're facing mobilization. That is the problem and the solution is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u199	A hole, Mr. Borisov? You won't use it, I understand. The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center follows. Mr. Haytov, the Prime Minister's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! At the end of last month, Mr Prime Minister, you were in Brussels at the summit, meeting with the prime ministers of the other member states. There you said something that I can't hide that really pleases us. You have stated clearly: "Enough Greece, see Vidin! " Everyone is watching Greece and northwest Bulgaria remains the poorest region in the European Union. On this occasion, my question to you is: what does the government take and what measures has it taken to ensure the financial stability of Bulgaria? In the same way: what do you and the government do for banking stability? Is there a danger to the savings of Bulgarian citizens in the banks in our country?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u201	For an answer, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u202	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Haytov! In no case so dramatic and not with such pathos to our neighbors, I have spoken. Indeed, for 5 years this topic has stood continuously, regardless of who is prime minister there. I remember back in the day Karamanlis was asking this question, then Papandreou, then Samaras, now Tsipras the same thing, and the topic is always: Give money! At the same time, we have always tried to be financially disciplined, to spend as much as we earn, or to meet the Maastricht criteria, with up to 3% deficit, and consequently low external debt, less than 60%. I have always believed that those who make efforts should be stimulated. And the Juncker plan, and at the moment, fortunately, thanks to all of you, that there is a parliament and there is no political crisis, this is happening. I have always said that no matter how different we are, that there is a government, all EU funds are working, money is entering Bulgaria, yesterday we have completed payments in agriculture. 800 million for the period from 2014 to now we have paid. So thanks, I repeat, to the political will of all parties this happens. As early as November, we did the necessary things with BNB and the Ministry of Finance. You know that branches or Greek banks in Bulgaria are not legal entities, they are placed under the necessary conditions and are monitored by BNB. So in this sense there is no banking crisis in Bulgaria. That is not the situation in Macedonia, that is not the case in Romania and Turkey, where according to the Ministry of Finance there are Greek banks that do not have these penalities that we have placed for them. A problem could arise here if they start to withdraw the money from one bank to another in the territory of Bulgaria. But I hope that the Bulgarians have already seen at yesterday's date over 3mrd. 670-680 million The Guarantee Fund has paid to the depositors in KTB and over 108 thousand depositors have received their money So I think that if we do not create some hysteria of stupidity, there is nothing to happen in Bulgaria. There's a Parliament task right here. I put her on the Conference of Presidents this morning for next week. Of course, if they agree to listen. This is the election of the Governor and the Governor of BNB. If there is any problem in Bulgaria, it is that at the moment the holders there are not one, and the other, who is called, remains for a few more days, while the European Central Bank is working daily, making decisions, and it is nice that Parliament will find the necessary consensus, make the necessary efforts and choose a guide of the Bulgarian National Bank. I can answer that in this respect. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u203	A line? You won't use it, Mr. Haytov. Now is the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. No questions asked. We're moving on to ABB's group. No questions asked. Mr. Velizar Enchev, question to Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u204	Madam President, Prime Minister, ministers gentlemen, fellow Members! My question is to the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov. I would like to ask him: do you not think, Prime Minister, that the government you are headed by has a completely wrong policy in both foreign policy and defence policy, because in it the emphasis is placed, I am talking about politics, when it comes to the so-called............................................................................... Evidence of this, Mr. Prime Minister, is the dozens of statements and the overall behaviour of the Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev, who does not hide that the main danger to Bulgaria is Russia and the Ukrainian conflict, and also the Programme 2020 of the Ministry of Defence, in which the main danger to Bulgaria comes from the so-called Eastern direction. On this occasion, I will only tell you that you may know from the press that in the last two weeks a team of sociologists and political analysts have been hired by the Ministry of Defense to go around the country to suggest such a threat. The question to you is specific: what is the Russian threat to Bulgaria, and why did you allow with your overall policy to become a front country?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u205	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u206	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! I have to go back to the questions I answered last week. It's not so much our interests that we defend ourselves as if we're going to harm someone else's interests. No one else's interests are affected. It was no accident that Minister Lukarski, Minister Pavlova, Minister Petkova were in Moscow, in St Petersburg, at various forums, events. They're working beautifully on every single line. I don't understand what makes you think we've taken the Russians as enemies or something. In Baku, we saw President Putin, we shook hands. One word he didn't tell me, and you're worried there's going to be a war. We are a NATO state, Minister Nenchev is a NATO minister and it is natural to maintain the policy that NATO and the European Union have. We don't fight with anyone, we don't declare war with anyone. And I don't see where your worries are coming from. And the fact that the Ministry has hired sociologists and political scientists is the first I've heard of it. I hope not, because we don't need someone to create either an extra image or to interfere with us. At least I don't know. If Minister Nenchev knows, he should come and answer. I assure you that with all their politics, at the moment the tourists are also those who are in the tourism industry know and the Russian tourists have started to return. Capacity at least at the airport of Burgas I know it has welcomed as much as in our best years Russian tourists. So I don't see any problem unless we create them. Separately, letters of interest have arrived, I say official letters about the gas hub that we have proposed to Brussels to build. We see from all my contacts and meetings that I have, there is a subject of tension to concern Bulgaria. We are a loyal NATO member, and in the sense of this we fulfill all our commitments. We're not a Trojan horse to do anything different. Not to mention that colleagues who went in that direction came back quickly in general. At this point, there's nothing to worry about. I can tell you that. We have a balanced policy. As for the other topic of the Islamic State, it is generally not good for terrorists to speak in public. It's important that the services work. As far as I heard from the Attorney General this morning, the pre-trial phase is over, the case of the DANS operation is in court. So quietly, the services are working, and I think we should tolerate such an approach, and noisy operations or noisy comments on these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u207	Line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u208	Prime Minister, I'm not concerned about anyone else's interests. I had a specific question: what is the so-called Russian military and political threat to Bulgaria? You didn't answer that question. [[Relations and excitement in GERB.]] And when it comes to the front line, which you also failed to address, I would like to remind you of what you said in mid-January this year, the Assistant Secretary of State of the United States of America, Mrs. Victoria Newland. I quote her exact words. She said: "We need to establish command centers quickly in all six countries along the front line, listing all three Baltic republics, Romania, Poland and, of course, the Republic of Bulgaria. In this sense, my question remains again specific: why did you allow us to be the front line? And this front line, according to Mrs. Victoria Newland, is targeting Russia. I ask again: what is the Russian military and political threat to Bulgaria? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u209	A hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Enchev, the word "Front Line" is not at all useful here today in Parliament. I cannot comment on who said what in Moscow, whether in Washington, whether in Brussels. Under NATO, we have commitments as a southern flank and we are very clearly and accurately fulfilling our commitments. The question here is not whether I allowed it or someone allowed it. These are commitments adopted, approved by the Bulgarian Parliament and many governments so far. Your question would be clear if I did anything other than that and said: why did you violate a parliament's decision, or signed agreements, contracts and go the other way? Then I find it logical to ask me that. With all due respect, I do not see anything at the moment that concerns you either as a military line, as a front, or as relations between Bulgaria and Russia. Bulgaria and Russia are peoples who have always respected each other, loved each other, always accounted for what they have done for us. At the same time, as a member of the European Union and NATO, we are 100% fulfilling our commitments and it is clear and precise and absolutely predictable. So in this regard, I hope you'll be calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u211	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Any group with a question for the Prime Minister? I won't. Thank you for participating in today's blitz control, dear Prime Minister. We're waiting for you in Friday's control as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u212	No, no. I'm not here. I'm not here. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u213	We're going back to the groups that still have a chance to ask questions. Two groups have used their right to use that of BSP left Bulgaria and the Patriotic Front. Does GERB have any questions? I won't. From the DPS? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. On 30 April 2015 Bulgaria presented its National Reform Programme for 2015 and the convergence programme for 2015 in the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe comes up with recommendations to Bulgaria, which relate to three components in the social sphere. First of all, the proposal is to prepare an integrated approach for risk groups in the labour market. It is about the long-term unemployed youth and the unemployed in pre-retirement age, in the age range between 50 and 64. It is no secret that Bulgaria is in one of the top places in the number of unemployed young people who are not included in education, training or qualification. Particularly interesting is the issue of the employment of people in pre-retirement age, especially in the context of the proposed measures in the pension reform package... [[Awesome, a large part of the MPs are leaving the plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u215	Excuse me, Mr. Ademov, for interrupting. Colleagues, the movement in the hall is beyond the limits when there is a Member of the National Assembly on the stand asking a question! Excuse me, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u216	The second case, which is recommended for a decision by the Council of Europe, is related to the preparation of a transparent mechanism for determining the minimum wage. Thirdly, the preparation of a sufficiently clear and transparent mechanism for the definition of minimum insurance thresholds. Both the minimum wage and minimum insurance thresholds are two very serious issues, which have been discussed for many years, commented at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has a methodology for determining the minimum wage, but it still goes into the section "Administrative definition." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. What the European Commission proposes is related to these three issues. My specific question is: what do the government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy do to resolve issues related to the recommendations of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u217	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, what you have quoted is indeed in the country's specific recommendations that the European Commission and the Council of the European Union send to each Member State. It is good that this year, for a long time now, for the first time, a text which is linked to the risks to macroeconomic stability coming from the pension system. Of course, this is a little trust in advance, as Parliament has not yet voted on changes to the Social Security Code, but I think it is a clear sign that the efforts we are making are going in the right direction. Regarding the other recommendations that you mentioned. These are also the sharpest problems in the country that we know. Young unemployed, long-term unemployed and pre-retirement workers are under special attention. Various measures have been taken.. new programmes are starting to work. What we will do with the integration of services also requires legislative changes. This is about the Employment Promotion Act. He has already passed the Council of Ministers and is to be discussed in the National Assembly. I'm counting on us to have a good discussion and make these changes. I am not going to talk about the application of the Law. It includes: a better connection to education, dual training, which is to be introduced and so on. With regard to recommendations relating to the determination of minimum wage and minimum social security benefits. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has been working with the International Labour Organisation since the beginning of last year to develop such criteria and to make good international practices on how to determine the minimum wage. Currently, it is determined after consulting the social partners, in practice by the Council of Ministers. The recommendation specifically states that a transparent mechanism must be created and that the minimum wage should correspond to the level of poverty of those who are employed is the poor, the ability of the economy to create jobs and its competitiveness. And in my statement in the relevant council, I made a reservation specifically for competitiveness. This is another topic, we can discuss it separately. In my opinion, there is no link between minimum wage and competitiveness. This was expressed as a Bulgarian position. What are we working on here? By the end of July, we should receive a summary report from the International Labour Organisation. Then, perhaps autumn will happen, in a specially created working group that is already working within the Trilateral Council, we will start discussing different options for determining the minimum wage based on certain criteria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There will probably be a lot of debates here, I guess a lot of them will move to parliament, very sensitive topics. I want to assure you that I will do my best to look for such objective criteria, which must inevitably be linked to both poverty and job creation, so that the minimum wage is determined in a transparent way pό. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u219	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Kalfin. I ask this question because the problems related to youth unemployment, you know very well that they are extremely relevant not only in Bulgaria, but also throughout the European Union. You know that the Youth Guarantee is underway and implemented. The issue of the unemployed between the ages of 50 and 64 is extremely relevant, that is, pre-retirement people. Given that the proposed measures, I am talking about measures to improve the pension system, the necessary internship is increasing, it is extremely important to have specific programmes and measures for this category of Bulgarian citizens so that they can meet the conditions for acquiring a retirement pension and age, because the internship is the main component in determining the size of the pension. As far as other measures are concerned, I am convinced that, together with the social partners, together with experts from the International Labour Organisation, you will find the best mechanisms so that the minimum wage can become an instrument that is not determined administratively but on the basis of objective criteria. On the other hand, the minimum insurance thresholds. It is high time to reconsider their role, because there are arguments for their stay as they have been acting for a long time and some believe that they have already played their part in the insurance system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u221	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Will you take advantage of it? [[Calls Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin.]] No. The next group that has the right to ask a question is that of the Reformation Block. People's representative Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and is related to the general policy of the government for possible lifting the VAT threshold. We know that small and medium-sized enterprises and Bulgarian businesses are a priority for every right-wing government and for our coalition. It is important for me to hear what the government's opinion is in this direction, given that more than 12 countries in the European Union have already benefited from the derogation procedure which gives such an opportunity to raise the VAT threshold. These are Belgium, France, Finland, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Britain and Poland. Raising the VAT threshold will help the economy itself by brightening the gray sector, raising revenue in the corporate tax budget, facilitating administration, reducing tax fraud and many other benefits. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ananiev, you're right. The so-called... directive............................................................................................................ As a matter of fact, the data I have is slightly different from yours, that much of the parties have not taken this opportunity. Yes, I kind of agree with you that this would have an effect on the lightening of the economy. In addition, the increase in the number of companies not registered under VAT has a number of problems of a different nature, including a direct impact on the fissure. According to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, if this proposal was adopted in the form in which it was commented from 50 thousand to 200,000, if memory serves, it would have a negative impact on revenue in the budget by at least 550 million, and separately the volume of companies registered would have decreased from 250 thousand to 75 thousand. In this sense, there are direct negative effects. I do not deny the need for a debate on this subject, but given the disturbing numbers that I have mentioned, it cannot, in any case, be prematurely supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u225	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Donchev, I have requested the information from the Ministry of Finance and I hope to receive it with the analysis, as all the countries I have listed have announced that there is no effect on the collection of VAT. Only Latvia declares that it has an effect of 0.32%, which will reduce VAT collection. And I don't know why we have the one of all the countries that I have listed that this effect would be of such great proportions. Given that at the moment there are a lot of small businesses that, let's say, have an income of 100,000. lv. are pressed and registered on two or three or four companies only and only not to register according to VAT, I think this thing will make it easier for them. We also have a free VAT registration. Anyone can register freely without reaching this threshold. It remains and most companies for which VAT itself is important, they will remain registered, so I think it will not have such a big effect. I think it will have a positive effect and this proves it by Poland, which for the second time extended this threshold. The first extension may be made in two or three years. They first do it in two years, they see a positive effect of this measure, it fully supports micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and last year they undertake another three-year extension. They are making a derogation procedure that is simple and can be done by the Council of Ministers if, of course, the government decides that it has to take such a step. I personally invite you to do another analysis, because I am sure that this step will be positive for small and medium-sized enterprises and will generally have a positive effect on the economy and the signal we will give for doing business in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u227	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, as I said, I do not deny the need for a debate on the subject, but I am far from as certain as you are sure. At the very least, I do not know about any Member State that supports such a threshold. Even countries such as France, such as England, where the economic situation is completely different, cannot be directly compared to Bulgaria, the thresholds are about 81 For reference the proposal, which has been made or which we comment on, for 200 thousand leva, means just over 100 thousand euros. I do not think that the economy in Bulgaria is comparable to that in France and Britain to take such a bold step. Maybe it had an effect on some companies. Surely the effect with regard to lightening is contradictory. Let me remind you that one of the measures, including the lightening of the economy, which has been commented in previous years, is a total mandatory VAT registration, which certainly allows for very few companies that are not under direct control of the tax administration, a measure which I recognise also find controversial. I accept the need to speak on this subject, but I do not believe that such a proposal should be backed up in haste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u229	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Among the parliamentary groups: the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center? I won't. They don't have a question. With that, the blitz control for today is over. To thank the deputy prime ministers for their participation in it. We continue with the legislative part of our programme - the second reading of the Labour Code on the General Report. Please allow the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber at second reading. I'm expecting Mr. Ademov in the hall. Quaestors, invite Mr. Ademov or another member of the Social Committee to brief us on the report. Colleagues, we have 35 minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Milena Damyanova. On the basis of art. 81, para. 2 sentence 3 of our Rules of Procedure the proposal has not been discussed and voted on. Proposal of the National Representative Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 327, para. 1 is created t. 12: ..12. has acquired the right to a pension for serviced time and service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u231	Statements? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u232	Madam President, I am making an editorial proposal: instead of the words "serviced time" and "work done" to be adopted the text. That's the correct term.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u233	'E has acquired the right to a retirement pension and age'. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's try to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Ademov's editorial proposal in art. 327, para. 1, the new t. 12 to sound like: he has acquired the right to a retirement pension for years and years. We vote on Mr. Ademov's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote! There is no reference to the name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - here Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vassilev - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mihaylova Tzerovska - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - absent Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Additional entry into the hall: Valentin Nikolov the Patriotic Front, Borislav Velikov, Danail Kirilov, Georgi Anastasov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Alexander Metodiev, Kiril Kalfin, Atanas Tashkov, Desislava Atanasova and Manol Genov. 115 of the check plus the new 10 I've read, 125 are present. There is a quorum, we are continuing the meeting. I put to the vote Mr. Ademov's proposal. 12 to become the right of retirement and age pension. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of § 21, in line with the decision which has just been adopted in plenary. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 21. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u234	Paragraph 15 "A proposal from the MPs Borislav Borisov, Ivan Stankov, Georgi Kuchukov: In § 15, Article 15 of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, Article 15 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law ..10. at the age of 65 for professors, PhDs and PhDs or at the end of the last period of extension of their employment contract with a decision of the Academic Council of the Higher School, but not later than 68 years old for professors and 67 years old for applicants. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 328, para. 1 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. in the case of the acquisition of a pension for retirement and age, and for professors, docs, doctors and doctors of the sciences at the age of 65;
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u235	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, speeches? Mrs. Svetlana Angelova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u236	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I withdraw the proposal made under this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u237	Since the proposal is generally supported by the Commission, how will it affect the Commission's version?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u238	There's a new edit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u239	Who's gonna offer the new editing? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u240	The new version after the withdrawn proposal by Mrs. Angelova is: In principle, it supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 15, which becomes § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 328, para. 1, t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. when acquiring the right to a retirement pension and age for professors, PhDs and PhDs at the age of 65;
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u241	The proposal is only doctors. - What's the line? I won't. Professor Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u242	Madam President, honourable Members, we have just voted on the new text of this. Article 10 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council I would like to make a proposal and an addition to the proposed text of this. 10, related to the existence of a contradiction between the text in the Labour Code. 10, which we have just voted on and § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act, which gives the right, by decision of the Academic Council of Professors and Doctors, to extend the work experience by one year each, but not more than three years for the professors and not more than two years for the docets, after which they retire. Where's the contradiction? The contradiction is that, on the one hand, we have a decision of the collective management bodies of the university, including its highest authority, the Academic Council, for extension, and according to the text that we have now fixed, and we propose to build on the employer in the face of the rector can retire the professor regardless of the decision of the Academic Council. So the two texts contradict each other. Our proposal is: after the text of this item has just been voted on. 10 to be added except in the case of § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act. What do we accomplish with this? Firstly, we eliminate the contradiction between the Labour Code and the Higher Education Act. Second, in t. 10 mechanically carried over the employer's rights from business to the employer's face in universities represented by the Rector. In universities, however, it is not quite so. In universities, the collective management bodies have a greater burden on the faculty councils, academic councils. In this case with the extension of t. 10 with this text we eliminate the possibility of the Academic Council deciding to extend. In order to take it, there must be a proposal of the Cathedral Council, to have been voted by the Faculty Council and only then at the Academic Council. At the same time the employer in the face of the Rector due to purely subjective attitude to refer to it. 10 and refuse this extension. No new privileges are given to me. No extension of age, no money, nothing is given. The possibility of subjective abuse in this case is hereby terminated. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u243	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u244	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament will support the editorial amendment made by Prof. Borisov. It is really about the synchronization of two laws, the Higher Education Act and the Labour Code, and the elimination of the possibility of a single decision by a Rector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Gechev, for a sentence to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u246	Dear Madam President, honourable colleague Borisov, honourable colleagues! We strongly support the proposal. Of course, we must support academic freedom and the decisions of the collective bodies, so this is a sensible proposal, and I invite you all to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u247	One sentence from Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u248	Madam President, it seems you suspect us of lobbying from the Economic University. [[Radio.]] Dear colleagues, if what Prof. Borisov offers no acceptance, we provide the Rector with the opportunity to deal with himself with some lecturers. We will support the proposal. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u249	Colleagues, let's not take this as a declaration of conflict of interest. We're listening, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u250	Madam President, I have no conflict of interest. I declare. We will also support the Reformation bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-01.u251	Colleagues, thank you. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. Since the editorial proposal made by Mr. Ademov is related to the withdrawn proposal of Mrs. Svetlana Angelova, but it is involved in a text that is more general and which was stated to be supported by almost all parliamentary groups, I am voting on the proposal of Mr. Borisov, the editorial of § 22 to do so: Art. 328, para. 1, t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. in the case of the acquisition of a retirement pension, except in the cases referred to in § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act; [[Reply from rapporteur Hassan Ademov.]] I didn't read the full text, so I didn't read the full text, and I didn't read the full text, so I didn't read the full text, except in the case of § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act. Voting mode. We vote on Mr. Borisov's proposal. [[Noise and lines. A line from the rapporteur Hasan Ademov.]] In the case of the acquisition of a pension for internship and age, at the age of 65 for professors, PhDs and PhDs, except in the case of § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act. Abort the vote. They voted 130 MPs: 126, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I am now voting, although in practice we voted on the whole text, but once again § 22 in the version of the Commission, in line with the withdrawn proposal in the part about doctors by Mrs. Svetlana Angelova and in line with the newly adopted decision on academic positions. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 130 MPs: 126, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, it's almost 2:00. 'At a time when today's sitting is to be put to an end. Tomorrow, as point one, are bills of amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code. After the fixed point first, we continue with the report of the second reading under the Labour Code. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
