ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. Abort registration. Second attempt.09.10 a.m. (09.11)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u2	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention a Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 30 September to 2 October 2015 as follows: 1. Second vote on the Pre-school and School Education Bill on a sequel. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Bill of State Agency Intelligence. 4. Second vote on the Military Intelligence Bill. 5. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on excises and tax warehouses with importers Georgi Kovachev and a group of MPs and the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Bill of Accounting with the Importer Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylum and Refugees with importer Tuncher Kardzhaliev. He was accepted in the first vote on 20 March 2015. 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code several bills. The first at the time is of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs; two bills of the Council of Ministers, July 23rd and September 15th respectively. This Decision shall 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing and continuing the Agreement on Grants under the Programme of the European Union for the Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS in Bulgaria and between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. 10. A bill for ratification of the Anex amending the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support with regard to the Secretariat of the South East European Police Cooperation Convention, signed on 12 October 2012 in Matrahaza, Hungary. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Interior of Hungary, the Government of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Justice and Public Security of Norway, the Swedish Migration Board, the Swedish Ministry of Justice and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy on the Implementation of the Project. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on financial assistance. Importer is the Council of Ministers. In fact, all ratifications are with an importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion of income and profits from the transfer of property. 14. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. 15. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Gurnsey on the exchange of information on tax matters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 16. Parliamentary control under art. On Friday, 2 October, the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, with a changed time, starting time of 1300 hours, i.e. the control will be from 1300 hours to 16.00 hours, the last three hours of the plenary session on Friday on 2 October. Please vote. They voted 136 MPs: 119, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, two proposals have been made in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the MPs Mr. Chetin Kazak and Mr. Mustafa Karadayi of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The requests are for inclusion in the weekly programme of two bills with importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Both bills, however, are dated 22 July 2015. The time limits under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not expired since during August, when the National Assembly is on a regulated holiday, the time limits are not running, which is why they are inadmissible for inclusion in a weekly programme for a single reason: the deadlines have not expired. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 23 to 29 September 2015: Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science and youth. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative-Processional Code with importer Nayden Zelenogorski and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 Report on the report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014 Annual Report and Activity Report of the State Fund for the Sustainability Guarantee of the State Pension System for 2014 and Annual Report on the State Debt Status for 2014 with Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Project for a decision to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Advisory Council for National Security to examine the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria against the mass migration of refugees and migrants across the border of the European Union and Bulgaria. The importer is Mikhail Mikov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement on the Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme in Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. The Legal Commission and the Foreign Policy Committee will also be watching it. And one last message. On 29 September 2015 the National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in September 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's continue with: Second reading of the LawProject on Pre-Student and Scholarship. On yesterday are adopted texts by importer from art. Art. 280 to Art. 288 including, which becomes art. 290. Articles 289 to 294 have been reported, which the Commission proposes to have with the corresponding numbering from 291 to 296, as well as the proposals to them. The vote is pending because, in the event of the upcoming vote, a name check has been requested and due to the absence of a quorum, the sitting has been suspended. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Zablyanov and a group of changes in art. 289. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 15 against 71, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. Article 291 296 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: 104, none against, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u3	Article 295. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by MP Stanislav Stanilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 295, which becomes art. 297: Art. 297. (1) The state budget shall provide funds to support the education in the educational subjects Bulgarian language and literature, History and civilization, Geography and economics in their part related to the history and geography of Bulgaria, organized abroad by: 1. organizations of Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, registered under the legislation of the country concerned for carrying out educational and cultural activities; 2. diplomatic representations of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad; 3. Bulgarian Orthodox Church Municipalities; 4. Slavano Bulgarian Monastery "St. Whip. Georgi Zograf. Athos, Greece. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be provided by the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science under conditions and by order determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. (3) The training under para. 1 is organized for pre-school children and for students from I to XII grade in educational programs and teaching aids established by the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u4	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u5	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam President, I would like to make an editorial amendment to the word'supporting' to replace it with 'financing'. This article regulates the financing of the training of tens of thousands of Bulgarian children studying abroad. We all hope that at some point these children will return to the country and they should join the system of Bulgarian education and should be prepared. There are only three subjects to study in Bulgarian, history and geography, which they can't study in the countries where their parents live and where they live. Changing the term will not bring more expenses to the Ministry. We simply believe that the amount of money that is being financed by the state budget is much more correct and will show the attitude of the National Assembly towards these tens of thousands of Bulgarian children and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 107 MPs: 15 against 27, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Stanilov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 109 MPs: 13 against 22, abstentioned 74. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zablyanov's proposal and a group of MPs are supported. I shall put to the vote art. 297 in its version of the Commission report. Cancel this vote. I was just thinking at the moment that there were supported proposals from Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, and on yesterday we listened all day that there was not one supported proposal, so I got distracted. [[Voices from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] I shall put to the vote Mr. Kenov's proposal in the version of the Commission in art. 297, para. In the first row, the word "supporting' shall be replaced by the word "refunding'. We vote on Mr. Kenov's proposal. They voted 108 MPs: 21, Against 9, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 297 in the version of the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u7	Statements? I won't. We are voting for members with numbers 298 and 299 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u8	Under art. 298 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1, t. 5 the words "schools of foreign countries" shall be replaced by the words "schools of countries outside the European Union." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 298, which becomes art. 300: Art. 300. (1) In the system of pre-school and school education shall be collected fees in amounts fixed by a tariff of the Council of Ministers for: 1. examination of an application for authorisation to enter a private kindergarten or private school in the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education or change of a private kindergarten or private school; the fee shall include the costs of carrying out an assessment of the compliance of the requested facts and circumstances and the documents submitted with the requirements for entering a private kindergarten or private school or the requirements for entering a change of a private kindergarten or private school; 2. issue of a certificate to register a private kindergarten or private school or to register a change of a private kindergarten or private school; the fee shall include the costs of preparing the certificate; 3. examination of applications for the approval of a cognitive book, textbook or study kit for pre-school and school education; the fee includes the costs of checking the documents imported; 4. carrying out an assessment of the cognitive book, textbook or study kit for their compliance with the state educational standard under art. 22, para. 2, p. 13; 5. recognition of a document for completed stage of school training, degree of education and degree of professional qualification issued by schools of foreign countries and for issuing a certificate; the fee shall be determined according to the recognised stage of school training, the degree of education and professional qualification and shall include the costs of verifying documents and carrying out an expert assessment of the comparison of the duration of the training, the type of school where the training was carried out, and the educational subjects with the requirements of the regulations and study plans and programmes operating in the system of pre-school and school education; 6. validation of competences acquired through informal training and informative learning; the fee shall be determined according to the type of validation and shall include the costs of verifying the submitted documents and carrying out the test; 7. examination of applications and evaluation of training programmes for improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists; the fee includes the costs of checking the submitted documents and evaluating the programmes; 8. conducting courses for literacy, courses for acquiring competences for completed secondary stage or for completed grades of secondary stage and courses for recognition of professional qualification; the fee shall include the costs of training and carrying out the test; 9. training of third-country nationals above compulsory school age; the fee includes the costs of training. (2) The income from the fees under para. 1, t. 1 " 5" are included in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and the fees under para. 1, t. The budget of the school concerned is 6............................................................................................. (3) Fees under para. 1, t. 5 do not gather when persons who want recognition are at compulsory school age. (4) Fees under para. 1, t. 6 and 8 shall not be collected when the activities are financed by national and international programmes and projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u9	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 95 MPs: 14 against 61 abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 300 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 84, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u10	Under art. 299 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 299, para. 1 the words............................................................................. 10, para. The Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 299, which becomes Art. 301: Art. 301. (1) Activities other than those financed by the State under art. 10, para. 3 which are carried out for payment by private kindergartens or schools shall be determined by the rules of the respective private kindergarten or private school. (2) The conditions and arrangements for payment of the activities under para. 1 and the amount of payment shall be determined by a contract between the private kindergarten or private school and the parent of the child or student. (3) Private kindergartens and schools included in the state funding system may raise funds from parents to compensate for the costs incurred by them to provide and maintain the material and technical basis where the activities of carrying out compulsory pre-school and school education of children and students are carried out and the maximum amount for a child or student shall be determined according to a methodology established by the State Educational Standard for the financing of institutions. (4) The participation of the child or student in activities under para. 1 shall not be a mandatory condition for its enrollment in a private kindergarten or school and its participation in compulsory pre-school and school education activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 11 against 60, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 301 in the version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Under art. 300 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 300, para. 1 the words "Personal development support' shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school centres'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 300, which becomes art. 302. Under art. 301 has a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 301 the words "Personal development support' shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school centres'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 301, which becomes Art. 303. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 302, which becomes Art. 304. Under art. 303 has a proposal from MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 303 words for support for personal development shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school centres." Proposal by the National Representative Milen Mihov and the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 303, which becomes art. 305: Art. 305. (1) The property or parts thereof and the property released as a result of the closure or conversion of state and municipal schools, kindergartens and support centres for personal development shall be used for educational, health, social or humanitarian activities under the Law on State Property, the Law on Municipal Property and the regulations governing their application. (2) The properties or parts thereof and the items released as a result of the closure or conversion of state and municipal schools, kindergartens and centers for support for personal development for which there is no public need for their use for the activities under para. 1 may also be used for other activities under simultaneous fulfilment of the following conditions: 1. no public need to use them for educational, health, social or humanitarian activities has been identified within two years; 2. there is a positive opinion of the Minister of Education and Science prepared on the basis of an assessment of the educational needs in the municipality; 3. The population has a population of less than 5,000 people.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u13	Statements under Section II of the Property and the texts that are in this section? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I have a few questions to the importers about art. 301, which has the following content: The public and municipal schools, kindergartens and centers for support of personal development real estate and movable property have the status of private state, respectively private municipal property. Dear colleagues, under the Law on Municipal and State Property, these are two separate laws, by the way, the status of property, which is private municipal or private state property, has a legally different format, if I may say so, because these property, first of all, are not subject to compulsory insurance, which is extremely important for kindergartens and schools. Who will insure these assets, Minister, when they are private municipal and private government property? Moreover, avoiding the publicity of this property enables municipal councils, for example, to sell or dispose of the property at any time. Let's say if this is a yard of a kindergarten and it is necessary to build the relevant facilities for the development of mass sport for children, it can safely be sold without requiring the appropriate procedure, such as for public municipal or public state property. And I'm making an editorial proposal in art. 301 in which after the word "statut" is to be recorded a public state, respectively public municipal property. In this way the interest of the Bulgarian schools is protected, the interest of kindergartens is protected, and most importantly their property is protected because over the years we have seen Sofia fall into deficit, lack, shortage of kindergartens. And for this reason it turned out that at some point the Bulgarian children have nowhere to go to kindergarten and nursery because they are simply not there because the kindergartens were sold, the nursery was sold. Their property has been sold. And, notice, by some strange coincidence, many of them instead of state or municipal became private because they sold the properties that were precisely for this reason, under this Law, private or private state property. I think, fellow Members, that we need to protect property, we need to protect the possibility of it being insured in the event of any unforeseen events such as disasters, such as an accident, that it be necessarily insured, as required by both the Municipal Property Act and the State Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Zablyanov's proposal for amendment to art. 300. The Commission does not support this proposal. Before that, we vote on the name of Section II. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Lord Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 81 MPs: for 7, against 55, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal in art. The text shall be replaced by the text of the public. The sentence takes place: with the status of public state, respectively public municipal property. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 15 against 7, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I want a re-vote. Colleagues, you obviously do not want to understand that the text thus formulated makes it possible for corrupt practices. It will be bought with municipal and state money and then sold, as in those dark times, when the privatisation of much lower prices takes place, the same property that you want to be private state and private municipal property.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u17	Mr. Bayraktarov, you're essentially speaking. Revoting is only required if you have failed to vote, or your colleagues have not done so in the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u18	Yeah, I'm just explaining why I want revoting to know that those who don't support the proposal are practically supporting corrupt practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u19	Thank you. It's a re-vote. Vote 84 representatives: 17 against 19, abstentions 48. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Zablyanov's proposal in art. 300 words of support for personal development shall be replaced by the words of out-of-school centres. The Commission does not support this proposal. 90 MPs voted: 10, against 69, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we are voting in Section II of the Property. Members with numbers 302, 303, 304 and 305. 305 in the version of the Commission. We are voting on these texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u20	Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u21	Chapter seventeen. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter seventeenth. Article 304 "A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 304, para. 2 the words "Personal Development Support Centre" shall be replaced by the words "Out-of-school Centre." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 304, which becomes Art. 304, 306.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u22	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting, honourable Members, not supported by the Commission text of Mr. Valeri Zhablyanov and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 5 against 58, abstention 18. We are now voting on the name of Chapter 17 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 74, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Article 304 which, according to the Commission's report, becomes art. 306. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u23	Article 305. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 306, para. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 305, para. 1 the words "Personal Development Support Centre" shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school Centre" and "out-of-school" shall be replaced by the words "out-school Centre." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 305, which becomes art. 307.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u24	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 8 against 61 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 305 by importer, which becomes art. 307, supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 77, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u25	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal! The Commission proposes to establish a new Article 308: Art. 308. (1) The Board bodies shall be the General Assembly and the Board of Governors. (2) Members of the Board of Governors shall be elected by the General Assembly for up to 4 years. (3) The Board of Governors shall elect from among its members the President. Article 306 supposed by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 306, t. 1, 2 and 6 the words "the Centre for Personal Development Support" shall be replaced by the words "the Out-of-school Centre." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 306, which becomes art. 309. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 2 is created. 306a: Art. 306a. The Director of kindergarten, school or out-of-school center shall provide the Board with a suitable space for free use to carry out its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u26	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u27	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, one of the proposals we have made is supported. Regardless of the way in which this has been highlighted, I would like to say that the text is important because the importers had not provided for board bodies and I think it is right to support it. I pay attention to you and I stand here before you to ask you to take a look at this second text proposed by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs from BSP, which concerns the working conditions of the boards. In fact, under the Bill, the board is entrusted with essential obligations, but its rights here at least, in the Law, are not specified. It's a good thing they have rights that are written in the law they register under. Moreover, it is not clear how the association of the board with the school is being carried out because the long-standing practice has shown that it will assist the school in its work. This text helps clarify the relationship between the board and the school and, of course, the relationship with the public council, although our proposal to elect a member of the board in the public council was not heard in this House. When discussing the norms that concern the public council, the texts that have already been adopted, in fact, the importers, and subsequently in the Chamber, it was accepted that the public council is aimed at forming democratic functioning communities. But isn't the board, the ideal society, also functioning for the public benefit, such a democratic functioning community? How is the other body more democratic than the board? In addition to the first text that has been proposed, I appeal to you to support and the second text I think will be in favour of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u28	A line to Mrs. Boyadjieva? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support for a change in art. 306. Vote 89 MPs: 15 against 57 abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Jablyanov and a group of MPs for a new article. 306a. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 10, against 58, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Articles 308 and 309 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u29	"Chapter 18" "Operation, transformation, change and closure of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter eighteen. The Commission supports the text of the applicant for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u30	Anblock, we vote on the name of Chapter 18 and Section I of this Chapter by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u31	Under art. 307 s a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In art.307, para. 1 to be added:..................................................................................... 48, para. 1, p. 1 and p. 1, p. 1 and p. 1, p. 1 and p. 1, p. 1, p. 1, p. 1, p. In para. 5 to drop out:.................................................................................... 48, para. 1, t. Proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 307, para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." State out-of-school centres. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 307, para. 5 words for support for personal development shall be replaced by the words "Municipal out-of-school centres." Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 307, which becomes Art. 307, 310: Art. 310. (1) The Minister of Education and Science with an order discovers, transforms, changes and closes: 1. state schools; 2. municipal schools; 3. specialized service units; 4. state and municipal centers for special educational support. (2) Schools of Arts and Schools of Culture shall be opened, transformed, changed and closed under the terms and conditions of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. (3) The order for the detection, transformation, change or closure of state kindergartens under art. 35, para. 2, p. 2 and Bulgarian public schools abroad are issued in accordance with international agreements and agreed with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. (4) State kindergartens under art. 35, para. 2, p. 1 shall be discovered, converted, changed and closed by order of the Minister of Defence in consultation with the Minister of Education and Science. (5) Municipal kindergartens and centers for support for personal development, with the exception of municipal centers for special educational support, shall be opened, converted, changed or closed by order of the mayor of the municipality after a decision of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u32	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mihov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support it. They voted 83 MPs: 8 against 6, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 10, against 61, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 310 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 76, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u33	Under art. 308? a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 the words "Personal development support" shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 308, which becomes art. 311: Art. 311. (1) State and municipal institutions in the pre-school and school education system shall be transformed by infusion, merger, separation or separation. Non-specialized schools shall also be transformed by changing the type under art. 38, para. 1 and 2. (2) Changes may be made in state and municipal kindergartens and schools related to: 1. the name; 2. the official address; 3. the address of the buildings where the training takes place. (3) A change of the funding body may also take place in vocational schools and sports schools. (4) In the specialized service units, except the changes under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 may also be made changes related to the subject of activity under art. 50. (5) In the centers of support for personal development, except for the changes under para. 2, changes relating to the subject of activity under art. 2 may also be made. 49 in accordance with art. 49, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u34	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 12, against 53, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 311 on the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: 65, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u35	Under art. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2009 on the protection of individuals with regard to the In para. 6 to be added:............................................................................................ 48, para. 1, t. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. The Member State shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of any changes in the scope of this Directive. 312: Art. 312. (1) The procedure for issuing the order for the opening, transformation, change and closure of state and municipal schools, the public and municipal centers for special education support and the specialized service units shall begin on a written proposal of the funding body. (2) For public schools with the exception of Bulgarian schools abroad, as well as for the public centers for special educational support for which the funding body is the Minister of Education and Science, the procedure for issuing the order for opening, transformation, change and closure shall begin on his initiative or on a written proposal from the Head of Regional Education Management. (3) For the Bulgarian schools abroad the proceedings for issuing the order for detection, transformation, change and closure shall begin at the initiative of the Minister of Education and Science under the conditions of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. (4) For schools to the places of imprisonment the proceedings for issuing the order for detection, transformation, change and closure shall begin at the initiative of the Minister of Justice. (5) The procedure for issuing an order to change the name of a public school may also be initiated on the basis of a written reasoned proposal made by the Director on the basis of a decision of the pedagogical council and agreed with the funding body where it is not the Minister of Education and Science. (6) The Mayor's proposal for the initiation of proceedings under para. 1 for municipal schools, as well as for municipal centers for special educational support, shall be submitted after a decision of the municipal council and after verification and opinion of the regional management of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u36	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 80 MPs: 18 against 7, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 312 in the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u37	Article 310 supposed by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 310 words are replaced by the words "Municipal out-of-school centres." Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 310, which becomes Art. 313: Art. 313. (1) The procedure for issuing the order for the detection, conversion, modification and closure of: 1. State kindergartens under art. 35, para. 2, p. 1 start at the initiative of the Minister of Defence; 2. State kindergartens under art. 35, para. 2, p. 2 starts at the initiative of the Minister of Education and Science; 3. Municipal kindergartens and municipal centers for support for personal development starts on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality after a decision of the municipal council. (2) The procedure for issuing an order to change the name of a State kindergarten may also be initiated on the basis of a decision of the pedagogical council and in agreement with the funding body where it is not the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u38	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 10, against 53, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 313 in the version of the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 78, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u39	Article 311 s a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 311, para. 1 the words "outside school" shall be added after the words "out-of-school school" and "out-of-school" shall be added. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 311, para. 2 and para. 3 after the words the words "municipal schools" are added the words "out-of-school centers." Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 311, which becomes Article 311, 314: Art. 314. (1) The proposal to open and convert a state or municipal school, a public or municipal centre for special education support and a specialized service unit shall contain: 1. reasons for the need to detect or convert; 2. name and official address; 3. the address of the buildings in which the training is carried out shall be carried out accordingly; 4. kind of school; 5. stage and degree of education, organisation of a school day and profiles or professions, organisation of pre-school education in case it takes place for the school; 6. professions in case vocational training is provided in accordance with art. 49, para. 2, p. 4, organization of the school day, organization of pre-school education, in case the state and municipal center for special educational support is implemented; 7. the subject of activity for the service unit; 8. the school year from which the opening or conversion is offered for the school, and for the state and municipal center for special educational support; 9. information about the number of children and students who will be educated and trained at the school or at the state and municipal center for special educational support, and the opportunities for transferring them to conversion; 10. information about provided transport to the school and to the state and municipal center for special educational support, to which students are redirected upon conversion; 11. information about an accessible architectural environment for children and students with special educational needs and material and technical, personnel and financial provision of the activities of the school and the public and municipal center for special educational support; 12. proposal for the storage of the mandatory documentation.. upon conversion. (2) The proposal for a change of state and municipal schools, of the state and municipal center for special educational support and of specialized service units shall contain: 1. a detailed description of the requested change; 2. reasons for the need for change; 3. an indication of the school year from which the change is offered for schools and for the state and municipal center for special educational support. (3) The proposal for the closure of state and municipal schools, of public and municipal centers for special educational support and of specialized service units shall contain: 1. reasons for the need for closure; 2. name and address; 3. type of school; 4. stage and degree of education and organisation of the school day and profiles or professions, organisation of pre-school education, in case it takes place for the school; 5. professions in case vocational training is provided in accordance with art. 49, para. 2, p. 4, organization of the school day, organization of pre-school education, in case the state and municipal center for special educational support is implemented; 6. information on the number of children and students and the possibilities for redirecting them; 7. information on ownership and proposal for allocation, transfer and use of the building fund and on the material and technical basis; 8. a proposal for acceptance and retention of the mandatory documentation; 9. information about provided transport to the school to which the students are directed. (4) The proposal for the opening, transformation, change and closure of municipal kindergartens and centers for support for personal development, with the exception of municipal centers for special educational support, shall contain the relevant props under para. 1, 2 and 3, according Their activities. (5) To the proposals under para. 1-4 shall apply the documents set out by the state educational standard for institutions in pre-school and school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u40	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 15 against 59, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 314 in the version of the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 73, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u41	Article 312 supposed by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 312, para. 2 after the words and closure of the. the words.. outside school centers and............................................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 312, para. 3 the words... reduce the number of children and students are made year-round and are considered for the upcoming school year and are deleted. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: the first paragraph is replaced Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 312, which becomes Art. 312, 315: Art. 315. (1) The proposals for the opening, transformation and closure of state and municipal schools, as well as of the public and municipal centers for special educational support, student dorms and astronomical observatories, shall be submitted by 31 May and shall be considered for the upcoming school year. (2) The proposals for the detection, transformation, change and closure of specialized service units shall be made and reviewed throughout the year. (3) The proposals for the transformation and closure of state and municipal schools, as well as the state and municipal centers for special educational support due to a decrease in the number of children and students are made year-round and are considered for the upcoming school year, and upon termination of the educational process due to the lack of children and students are made and examined year-round. (4) The proposals for changes shall be made and reviewed year-round.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u42	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 16 against 62, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 315 in the version of the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u43	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 313, which becomes Art. 316: Art. 316. (1) Documents for detection, transformation, change and closure under art. 314 shall be examined and assessed for compliance with the requirements of this Law and its implementing regulations. (2) No proposals shall be evaluated which: 1. do not contain all necessary documents; 2. shall be submitted after the term referred to in Article 2. 315, para. 1. (3) Exceptionally, where the issue of a document is within the authority of another body and under conditions specified in the state educational standard for the institutions under art. 22, para. 2, p. 11, proposals which do not contain this document may be examined and evaluated if another evidence of the existence of proceedings before that authority is presented. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 314, which becomes Art. 317. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 315, which becomes Art. 318: Art. 318. (1) When the documents submitted for detection, transformation, change and closure under art. 314 do not comply with the requirements of this Law and its implementing regulations, the importer shall be informed of the non-compliances and of the time limit for their removal, which shall not be less than 10 working days. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 316, para. 3 where no non-compliance with the regulatory requirements has been identified in the assessment of the submitted documents or have been corrected in accordance with para. 1, the importer shall be notified to provide the document which is issued by another authority. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 316, which becomes Art. 316, 319: Art. 319. (1) The opening, conversion, change and closure authority shall take a decision within one month by: 1. issue an order for detection, change, conversion or closure; 2. refuse detection, change, conversion or closure. (2) The term under para. 1 shall start from the date of removal of the deficiencies under art. 318, para. 1 or from the expiry of the suspension period. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 317, which becomes Art. 320: Art. 320. (1) An order for detection, modification, conversion or closure shall be issued where no non-compliance with the regulatory requirements has been detected during the examination and assessment or the non-compliance found has been resolved within a time limit. (2) The Authority shall refuse to detect, modify or convert where: 1. the findings of non-compliances have not been resolved or have not been resolved within the specified time limit; 2. in the cases referred to in art. 318, para. 2, the importer has not submitted the relevant documents by 1 July before the start of the school year for which opening, change or conversion is requested. (3) The acts under para. 1 and 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall enter into force from the day of their promulgation, unless otherwise provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u44	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Members with numbers 316, 317, 318, 319 and 320 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 93, none, abstentioned 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u45	Article 318 supposed by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 318, para. 1 the words "Personal Development Support Centre" shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school Centre." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 318, para. 2 after the words "transmitter" the words "out-of-school center" shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 318, which becomes art. 321 Article 319 supposed by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 319 the words "Personal Development Support Centre" shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school Centre." Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 319, which becomes Art. 322: Art. 322. (1) The order for the closure of a state and municipal kindergarten or school, of a support centre for personal development and of a specialized service unit shall contain: 1. name, registered office, official address; 2. conditions and order for the redirection of children and students; 3. conditions and arrangements for keeping the mandatory documentation; 4. Terms and arrangements for the distribution of property. (2) The order to close a specialized service unit shall contain the data under para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4. Article 320 supposed by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 320 the words "Personal Development Support Center" shall be replaced by the words "Out-of-school Centre." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 320, which becomes Art. 323.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u46	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs under art. 318, which the Commission does not support. Vote 96 MPs: 12 against 70 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs under art. 319, which the Commission does not support. They voted 96 MPs: 11 against 67, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Zablyanov's proposal under art. 320, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 10, against 68, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Anblok, we are voting on the Commissioner's report with the number 321, 322 and 323. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u47	Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 321 has a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 321, para. 1 at the end of the sentence are added the words in accordance with the ordinance of the Council of Ministers and by order of the Minister of Education and Science. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 321, para. 4, item 3 after the end of the sentence is added: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 321, para. 4 at the end of the sentence are added the words The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 321, which becomes Art. 324: Art. 324. (1) Spiritual schools shall be opened, converted and changed at the request of the central body of the recognized religious institution in the country. (2) Spiritual schools shall be converted by infusion, merger, separation or separation. (3) In spiritual schools except the changes under art. 311, para. 2 may also be made changes related to: 1. the name of the relevant religious institution; 2. the professions in which the training is organised; 3. The principal of the school. (4) Spiritual schools shall be closed: 1. at the request of the central authority of the religious institution concerned; 2. when the activities of the religious institution is terminated; 3. when it is established that the requirements of this law and the regulations on its application are not complied with; 4. when imposing a restrictive measure under art. 8, para. 1, t. 4 of the Religious Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u48	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. (National Representative Boyka Marinska wants the floor for procedure. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u49	Madam President, I suggest a name check be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u50	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Stefanov Vassilev - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Andonov Kotev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - absent Additionally recorded: Ayhan Etem, Aidoan Ali, Atanas Merdjanov, Delyan Dobrev, Mithad Metin, Nayden Zelenogorski, Svilen Ivanov, Borislav Iglev, Martin Ivanov and Musa Palev. There is a quorum. Let's move on. There is a vote on Section II "Discovery, transformation, change and closure of spiritual schools" coming up. Colleagues, we are voting on the name of Section II, supported by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. We vote 72 MPs: for 6, against 50, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 324 in the version of the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u51	Article 322? a proposal from the National Representative Milen Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 322, which shall become Art. 322. 325. Art. 325. (1) Spiritual schools shall be opened, converted, changed and closed by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, except for the cases under art. 324, para. 3, p. 3 and para. 4. c. 4. (2) The procedure for issuing the order for detection, conversion and change shall begin at the written request of the relevant central authority of a recognised religious institution in the country. (3) The procedure for issuing the order for the closing of spiritual schools shall begin: 1. at the request of the relevant central authority of the recognised religious institution in the country; 2. on a proposal from the regional education management after verification; 3. on a proposal from the authority that recognised the religious institution. Art. 323 - a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: Art. 323, para. 1, t. 4 to acquire a follow-up version:... data on the professional qualification and biography of the principal of the school................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. To create a new paragraph 5 with the following text: Points 5-9 becomes 6-10. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 323, which shall become Art. 323. 326: Art. 326. (1) The request for the opening and conversion of spiritual schools shall contain: 1. details of the relevant central authority of the recognised religious institution in the country; 2. the name of the spiritual school; 3. seat, official address of the spiritual school and address of the building (s) where the training will be carried out and the identification of the real estate according to art. 26 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act; when using a non-self-sufficient part of the building, the premises shall be specified; 4. details of the principal of the school; 5. profiles or professions and organisation of the school day; 6. the academic year from which the opening or transformation is proposed; 7. number of classes and classes for each class in which training will be organised during the first year after the opening or conversion; 8. information on the number of students to be trained at the school and information on the possibilities for transferring them to conversion; 9. proposal for the storage of the mandatory documentation... upon conversion. (2) The request for a change shall contain: 1. a detailed description of the requested change; 2. reasons for the need for change; 3. an indication of the school year from which the change is proposed. (3) The request for closure shall contain: 1. reasons for the need for closure; 2. an indication of the school year from which closure is proposed; 3. information on the direction of students and on the preservation of school documentation. (4) The documents defined by the state educational standard for the institutions under art. 22, para. 2, c. 11. Art. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of art. 324, which becomes art. 327: Art. 327. (1) When examining and evaluating the documents for opening, transformation, change and closure of spiritual schools shall apply respectively art. 315-320. (2) The specific conditions for the detection, transformation, change and closure of spiritual schools shall be determined by the state educational standard for the institutions in the pre-school and school education system. ............................................... Art. 325 - proposal of the MP Milen Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 325, which becomes art. 328: Art. 328. (1) The decision to open or convert a spiritual school other than the props under art. 321, para. 1 contains and: 1. details of the recognized religious institution in the country and its central body; 2. the profiles or professions in which the training is organised; 3. the right of the school to issue official documents for a completed class, for a degree of education and for professional qualification. (2) The decision to close a spiritual school shall contain the props under art. 322, para. 1, t. 1-3. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 324, para. 4 t. 4 The spiritual school shall be closed from the entry into force of the act imposing the restrictive measure. ............................................... Art. 326? a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 326, which becomes Art. 326. 329: Art. 329. (1) In the event of a change of the director of a spiritual school, the relevant central body of a recognised religious institution shall inform the Minister of Education and Science before the conclusion of a contract with the director. (2) To the notification under para. 1 shall apply the documents defined by the state educational standard for the institutions under art. 22, para. 2, p. 10. (3) If necessary, the Minister of Education and Science may request additional information from the relevant central authority of a recognised religious institution. (4) The work contract with the Director may be concluded after authorisation of the Minister of Education and Science. (5) The Minister of Education and Science shall issue or refuse to issue the authorisation under para. 4 within 14 days of the entry of the documents under para. 2 or additional information under para. 3. (6) On the basis of the authorisation under para. 5 the change of the Director shall be entered in the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u52	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposals of Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs under art. 323, not supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 3 against 11, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for members with numbers 326, 327, 328, 329 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 77, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there's a doubt that we didn't vote. 325. Vote art. 325. Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the whole Section II. We're moving on to Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u53	"Department III ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 327, which becomes art. 330. Under art. 328 has a proposal from MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 328, which becomes Art. 331: Art. 331. (1) Private kindergartens and private schools may carry out their activities only after entering the register of institutions in the pre-school and school education system and issuing a certificate of entry by the Minister of Education and Science or by an official authorised by him. (2) The entry into the register of institutions shall be made on application of the private kindergarten or private school containing: 1. details of the legal person; 2. the unique identification code or the BULSTAT code; 3. details of the director of kindergarten or school; 4. the school year from which entry is requested in the register of institutions; 5. type of school under art. 38, para. Art. 1 and 2 or art. 39, para. 2, p. 1-3; 6. forms of training and organisation of the school day; 7. profiles or professions; 8. the seat and official address of the kindergarten or school and address of the building/buildings where the educational process will be conducted, and the identifier of the real estate according to art. 26 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act; when using a non-self-sufficient part of the building, the premises shall be specified; 9. name of kindergarten or school. (3) To the application under para. 2 the documents defined by the state educational standard for the institutions in pre-school and school education shall be applied. (4) Private kindergartens and schools under art. 40, para. 4 submit to their application and written evidence certifying their right to conduct training in accordance with the requirements of the foreign education system. (5) A declaration shall not prove an educational degree, professional qualification, teaching experience, as well as other facts and circumstances for which another order has been laid down by law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 329, which becomes Article 329. 332: Art. 332. (1) Applications for entry into the register of institutions shall be submitted year-round and the applications submitted by 31 January of the calendar year shall be considered for the upcoming school year unless their examination is requested for a later school year. (2) The examination and evaluation of applications and the documents attached thereto shall be subject to art. 316-318. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 330, which becomes Art. 333: Art. 333. (1) The Minister of Education and Science shall, within one month, issue an order authorising or refusing to authorise entry into the register of institutions. (2) The term under para. 1 shall start from the date of removal of the deficiencies under art. 318, para. 1 or from the expiry date of their suspension. (3) The order under para. 1 shall be reported under the terms and conditions of art. 61 of the Administrative procedural code. (4) The principle of tacit consent shall not apply when issuing an authorisation for entry and an entry certificate. Under art. 331 has a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 331, which becomes art. 334: Art. 334. (1) The Minister of Education and Science shall permit entry in the register of institutions where no non-compliance with the regulatory requirements has been identified during the examination and evaluation of the documents submitted or the non-compliance found has been resolved within the time limit. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 contains: 1. the name, seat and official address of the kindergarten or school; the single identification code or the BULSTAT code; 2. the address of the building in which the educational process will be conducted, as well as the identifier of the real estate according to art. 26 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act; when using part of a building, the premises shall be specified; 3. the type of school under art. Art. 38 or art. 39, para. 2, p. 1-3; 4. the profiles or professions in which the training is organised; 5. the right of the school to issue official documents for a completed class, for a degree of education and for professional qualification. (3) Based on the authorisation under para. 1 Private kindergarten or private school shall be entered in the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. (4) The Minister of Education and Science or an official authorised by him shall issue a certificate of entry under para. 1 within 7 days of its completion. (5) The effect of the registration and the certificate shall be unlimited. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 332, which becomes art. 335: Art. 335. The Minister of Education and Science shall refuse entry in the register of institutions where: 1. the findings of non-compliances have not been resolved or have not been resolved within the specified time limit; 2. in the cases referred to in art. 318, para. 2, the applicant has not submitted the relevant documents by 1 July before the start of the school year for which opening, change or conversion is requested. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 333, which shall become Art. 333. 336: Art. 336. (1) Changes may be made in private kindergarten or private school related to: 1. the name (the firm), the seat, the official address; 2. the director of kindergarten or school; 3. the premises or buildings where the educational process is conducted; 4. the profiles or professions in which the training is organised; 5. the author's pre-school curricula, the author's vocational training programmes respectively; 6. type of school under art. 38, para. 1 and 2 or under art. 39, para. 2, p. 1-3. (2) The changes under para. 1 shall be entered in the register of institutions in the pre-school and school education system on application of the private kindergarten or private school. (3) The application for the registration of a change of the private kindergarten or private school shall contain: 1. a detailed description of the requested change; 2. reasons for the need for change; 3. an indication of the school year from which a change under para. 1, t. Four-six. (4) To the application under para. 3 the documents set out in the state educational standard for the institutions shall apply. (5) The applications under para. 3 shall be imported and examined year-round, with the exception of applications for a change under para. 1, t. 4-6 which are imported and dealt with within the time limits laid down in art. 332, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 334, which becomes Art. 334. 337: Art. 337. (1) When examining and evaluating applications for changes under art. 336, para. 1, t. Articles 1, 3-6 and the documents attached thereto shall apply respectively. 316-318, 333, Art. 334, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 335. (2) The authorisation to enter a change under art. 336, para. 1, t. 4-6 contains the year from which the change is allowed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 335, which becomes Art. 335. 338. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 336, which becomes Art. 336, 339: Art. 339. (1) Applications for a change to the Director shall be submitted before signing a contract with the Director. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall apply the documents set out by the state educational standard for institutions. (3) If necessary, the Minister of Education and Science may request additional information from the private kindergarten or private school. (4) The contract with the Director under para. 1 may be concluded after the permission of the Minister of Education and Science under para. 5. (5) The Minister of Education and Science shall issue or refuse to grant permission to conclude the contract with the Director under para. 1 within 14 days of the entry of the documents under para. 2 or additional information under para. 3. (6) On the basis of the authorisation under para. 5 the change of the Director shall be entered in the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 337, which becomes art. 340. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 338, which becomes art. 341: Art. 341. Where the private kindergarten or private school is deleted from the register under the conditions and under the order of art. 340, they may apply for a new entry not earlier than one year after the cancellation of the entry certificate. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 339, which becomes art. 342. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 340, which becomes Art. 343: Art. 343. (1) Where the private kindergarten or private school are written off from the register of institutions under the conditions and under the order of art. 342, they may apply for a new authorisation without a time limit. (2) In the cases under para. 1 applications shall be dealt with under light conditions laid down in the state educational standard for institutions in the pre-school and school education system. (3) Under the conditions laid down in para. 2 applications of newly established or admitted legal persons shall also be considered in the case of the transformation of a private kindergarten or private school by means of infusion, merger, separation or separation. Under art. There is a proposal of the National Representative Snezana Dukova, made in accordance with Article 341. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 341, which becomes art. 344: Art. 344. (1) The specific terms and conditions of entry, changes, deletion and withdrawal from the register of the institutions of private kindergartens and private schools shall be determined by the state educational standard for the institutions in the pre-school and school education system. (2) For examination of applications and evaluation of documents under art. Article 331 336 and for issuance of certificates under art. 334, para. 4 and 338, para. 2 The Ministry of Education and Science shall collect fees in the amount fixed in the tariff under art. 300, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u54	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, by the name of Section III, and by Articles 330 to 344 inclusive. Mr. Bayraktarov, you have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to take account of the texts of art. 327 on the report, which becomes art. 330 and, to be exact, para. 3 of this article, which reads as follows: 1 can't have any other subject of activity other than kindergarten or school activity, and I think it might be more right to be more right to work at only one kindergarten or school. Dear colleagues, so read the text looks really good. However, I ask the importers and all of you: which law restricts you to register the number of legal entities and you to be their owner? There is no such law as to limit you. I can register the legal entity with it to register in the order of a private kindergarten or private school, and now, notice here comes the thin moment. With the same documents, I will register the other 10. 15 or 20 as I estimate, with different legal entities. However, the moment comes when I, as managing all these legal entities, impose a policy that turns out to be wicked, violates the law, but only one kindergarten or only one school will be closed. The rest, until checked, will continue to develop, for example, these vices, will continue to carry out these violations, which is now becoming a precedent. We give the opportunity with this text finally in para. 3 to carry out this outrage. Therefore, dear Mr. Chairman, I am proposing in para. 3 after the word "school" the text can only work at one kindergarten or school. Why? First, I will consider the positive part of this issue. If a team of experts and specialists are very good, decide to open such a private kindergarten or school, who is able to ban them from creating a chain of kindergartens and schools? Who? Or can they be fit and capable only within one kindergarten and one school, and can't be fit and capable of two-three-five across the country? By the way, we now have this precedent for legal entities to use the name of already created good school names, especially in language schools. I will not give you an example so that I do not advertise, but I will say it in a more typical way: a private school has created a good name for itself for a good language training, and it turns out that twenty-several legal persons use this name all over the country "Asia" and people think that they go to those people who are the experts, specialists who will give good training, and in fact it is not. That's why I think these last few words of para are good. 3 in art. 327 with a new numbering 330 to drop out so that we can really clear these texts, have the opportunity for good control and have the opportunity for parents, children, students to find out who are capable and who to go to and pay to train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u56	I get it, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any lines to that statement? Mr. Mestan, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, your proposal is untenable, and why, you will understand if you read the Law in full. It is useful to read the Law in full because it does not consist of a provision that you dispute. Otherwise, you are in one condition, which I will now quote to you: a deficit of lack of shortage. That's the phrase you used today. Think about it, think about it, because it's a terrible tautology. These three words mean the same thing to you when you find yourself in a state of pseudo-intelligent people who use another common expression as the foundation based on the temmels, right, a deficit of lack of shortage. The expression is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Second line? I won't. Do you want a hole? The Law on Education implies, however, a conversation about semantics and words, but I hope we still stick to the focus of the Law itself. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice when someone comes out to do lines, to really do lines, not to make qualifications, and you were obliged to interrupt this speech, Mr. Chairman. Secondly, there's a shorthand and I've been telling you since yesterday to learn to read your shorthands and remember the words you spoke. Otherwise, you are experiencing a very unpleasant syndrome, and it is called Older Dementia. [[(Shouting, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u60	Mr. Bayraktarov, you asked...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u61	Don't interrupt me, because there were qualifications just now, there were all kinds of states and definitions, so be president the same for everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u62	Mr. Bayraktarov! Follow the rules, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u63	What's more, elderly dementia is more familiar with the general public as old age stupidity... [[The National Representative Lutvi Mestan applauds and leaves the Chamber.]] But, you know, I don't want to get into these things, because when you get into a state of old age stupidity, people usually get sick from another unpleasant disease, and it's called the Varicosia. Okay. But let's not get into these situations because it's really getting funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u64	I remind you to stick to the subject! Otherwise, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u65	As regards the proposal I have made, it is related to the relevant section on the creation of private kindergartens, the whole mechanism for their registration and of private schools, as well as the withdrawal of the permission to carry out the activity. It is regulated only in this section and not in the entire Law, sir!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u66	Mr. Bayraktarov, I would take note of your recommendation, even though you expressed it in the back, but I beg you, if you want no qualifications, not to use them yourself! [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Please don't engage in dialogue with me. Ladies and gentlemen, any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on what Mr. Bayraktarov has made editorial proposal in art. 327, para. 3 The text after the school, that is to say, can only work in one kindergarten or school, to be dropped out. We are voting for an editorial proposal by Mr. Bayraktarov. Vote 72 MPs: 5 against 23, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the name of Section III together with the texts of art. Article 330 344 including, consistently and chronologically, where supported and where the Commission has edited importing members. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Ms. Karayancheva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land by three days, which means until Monday, 5 October 2015, 18.00 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u68	Thank you for your offer. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedure by Mrs. Karayancheva. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Proceed with Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u69	"Department IV " Register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. Article 342. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 342, para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." State out-of-school centres on the basis of the order for their opening, conversion, changes and closure. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 342, which becomes art. 345: Art. 345. (1) The Ministry of Education and Science shall establish and keep a public register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education, which shall include: 1. the state kindergartens, state and municipal schools on the basis of the order for their opening, transformation, changes and closure; 2. the spiritual schools on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers on their opening, transformation and closure; 3. private kindergartens and schools on the basis of the permission to enter, change, delete and discharge issued by the Minister of Education and Science; 4. specialized service units on the basis of the order for their opening, transformation, changes and closure; 5. the state and municipal centers for special educational support on the basis of the order for their opening, transformation, changes and closure. (2) The circumstances to be entered in the register under para. 1 as well as the order of entry shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Education and Science. Article 343. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the words "Personal development support' shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school centres'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 346: Art. 346. (1) In each municipality is established and kept a register of the municipal kindergartens and centers for support for personal development, in which municipal kindergartens and centers for support for personal development are registered, with the exception of municipal centers for special educational support on the basis of the order for their detection, transformation, change and closure. (2) The circumstances to be entered in the register under para. 1 as well as the order of entry shall be determined by a regulation of the respective municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u70	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting unsupported by the Commission a text by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov for Art. 342, para. 1 to create t. 4, we are voting unsupported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 5 against 63 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for art. 343, not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 5 against 62, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the name of Section IV, the wording of Articles 345 and 346, as amended by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 78, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u71	"Chapter Nineteen" "Administrative-Criminal Provisions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Nineteenth. Article 344. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 344, para. 3 after the words the words of the Minister of Education and Science for the state institutions and the mayor of the municipality for the municipal institutions are added. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344, para. 4 the words "the minister/mayor of the municipality or officials empowered by them" shall be inserted after the words "the minister/mayor of the municipality." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344, para. 5 after the words "Budgetary revenue" the words "the education and science" or "the education and science" shall be added. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344, para. 5 words for support for personal development shall be replaced by the words "out-of-school centres." Alinea 6... new: (6) In cases where the parents (the guardians) are unable to pay the fines under para. 1 and 2 they are doing community service in the form and volume determined by the mayor of the municipality. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the N.S.P. Stephanie Mikhailova, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 344, which becomes art. 347: Art. 347. (1) Parents who do not enroll their children, subject to compulsory preschool or school education, in kindergarten or school, shall be punished with a fine of 50 to 150 BGN. (2) Parents who do not ensure the presence of their children subject to compulsory pre-school education recorded in full-time, half-day or part-time form of organization in kindergarten or school or subject to compulsory school education recorded in daily, evening, remote or combined form of school education shall be punished with a fine of 50 to 150 BGN. (3) Parents who do not provide the presence of their children in the additional training under art. 124, para. 2, shall be punished with a fine of 50 to 150 BGN. (4) In the case of a re-enactment of the infringement under para. 1, 2 and 3 the fine is from 100 to 500 BGN. (5) The acts establishing the infringements under para. 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be composed of officials appointed by the mayor of the municipality. (6) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the mayor of the municipality or by an official authorised by him. (7) The funds collected from fines shall be paid under the budget of the municipality concerned and shall be spent only on activities related to the support of equal access, as well as for the development of kindergartens, schools and centres of support for personal development. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 345, which becomes Art. 345. 348. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 346 which becomes art. 349: Art. 349. (1) Author or publisher of a cognitive book, textbook or study kit, which distributes the work in deviation from the approved project, without having the conditions under art. 161, para. 4, shall be punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In the case of re-enactment of the infringements under para. 1 a fine is imposed, a corresponding penalty, twice the amount. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. BEMP is to be applied in accordance with Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 350. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 348, which becomes art. 351: Art. 351. (1) Which does not comply with a mandatory prescription under art. 264, para. 3, is punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN. (2) In the case of a re-enactment of the infringement under para. 1 a fine is imposed, respectively a double-size penalty. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 349, which becomes art. 352: Art. 352. (1) The acts for the identification of infringements under art. 348, 349, 350 and 351 shall be made up of officials appointed by the Minister of Education and Science and shall be issued by the Minister of Education and Science or by officials authorised by him. (2) The funds collected from fines and property penalties for the infringements under para. 1 shall be paid in revenue under the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 350, which becomes art. 353.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u72	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 7, against 56, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the name of Chapter 19 and Articles 347 to 353 including, consistently, where they are supported by an importer and where they are edited by the Commission. We are voting for texts supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. Before I announce the break until 12:00, message: Dear colleagues, at 11.30 am today at the Club of the National Assembly a photo exhibition will be opened, revealing the beauty of Antarctica, the activities of the Bulgarian polar researchers and the acts of the National Assembly, with which Bulgaria becomes part of the Treaty on Antarctica. All MPs are invited to the opening. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u73	Please allow the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, the sitting continues. Until we get together, one message: On 30 September 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 30 September 2015 to 30 September 2015 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis. 82 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Petar Petrov, Georgi Nedev, Kancho Filipov, Rosen Petrov, Svetlin Tanchev withdrew the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 554-01-69. Colleagues, in the meeting prior to the break in consultation with the stenogram it was found that I did not put two unsupported proposals to the vote of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs who are on page. 341 of the report on Articles 301 and 303 by importer. I shall put to the vote Mr. Zablyanov's proposals and a group to amend art. Art. 301 and Art. 301 303 by importer not supported by the Commission. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. You know where to look after them after the break. There's no quorum. Abort the vote. In view of the strong movement of MPs in the Chamber, I shall put to the vote the proposals of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs under art. 301 and 303 by importer not supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 10, against 52, abstention 14. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u74	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal from the National Representative Boris Stanimirov. The Commission does not support the proposal: To §1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is added. 24, which reads: It's 24 o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, 6 "Principles of democracy and the rule of law, of human rights and freedoms" include awareness of the crimes of totalitarian regimes in Europe, including the communist regime in Bulgaria within the meaning of the Law on the Declaration of the Communist regime for criminal (University). DV. No. 37 of 5 May 2000) A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In the Additional provisions of point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules "Mother's language" is the language: (a) of the minority which traditionally or substantially resides in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and to which the student and his parents are defined as belonging; (b) to the children of foreigners residing on a legal basis and/or working in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or having acquired refugee status. A proposal from MP Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In the Additional provisions of Paragraph 1, a new point 24 shall be added with the following text: 24 Extreme situations are fires, floods, earthquakes, mass clashes, terrorist acts and others that violate the normal functioning of the educational structure. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: point (d) is added: (d) in serious material condition due to low economic status of the family. Paragraph 1 shall create new points 3-5 and the remaining points shall be renumbered: "3." "Training" is a systematic and targeted process for the formation of competences in children and students, based on the interactions of participants in the process and carried out within and outside educational institutions. 4. "Education" is an officially recognised set of competences formed as a result of the training process and enabling further education to continue. 5. It is a systematic impact on children and students in order to learn behavioral patterns and habits formation; Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Author" is a natural person or natural person who, as a result of creative activity, has created: (a) a cognitive book and/or textbook and/or study kit used in the pre-school and school education system; (b) a draft cognitive book and/or a draft textbook and/or a draft study kit to participate in an evaluation and approval procedure opened by the Ministry of Education and Science. 2. The school teacher is a teacher who is appointed only for the training of children and students during their stay in the hospital. 3. "Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria" are Bulgarians within the meaning of art. 2 of the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. The age for a given class is the relevant age for that class of students who have enrolled in the first grade in the school year starting in the year of their 7-year-old age, have not repeated any of the previous classes, have not missed a school year and have not graduated more than one class in one school year. 5. "Acts subject to state policy' are the activities carried out by the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education, to which children and students have equal access and are directly related to their upbringing, education and training, the acquisition of primary and secondary education and/or professional qualification or with support for their personal development. These activities are not economic in nature, are determined by the state educational standard for the financing of the institutions and are financed in whole or in part from the state budget in accordance with this law and under conditions, in order and in terms set by the Council of Ministers. 6. The child or student at risk is a child or student: (a) without parental care or whose parents have died, unknown, deprived of parental rights or their parental rights are limited; (b) the victim of abuse, violence, exploitation or any other inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment in or outside his family; c) in danger of damaging its physical, mental, moral, intellectual and social development. 7. A child or student with prominent gifts is a child or student with long lasting abilities and achievements in the field of science, art or sport, embracing the achievements of his peers. 8. "Member State" is a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or the Swiss Confederation. 9. The Electronic Edition is information presented in digital form using a commonly accepted standard for computer visualization, mobile device, network network TV or other similar device that includes learning content, tests, reference materials, links to external resources, dictionaries, educational games, multimedia, images, audio and videos, animations, virtual reality and others, enabling flexible, interactive and adaptable learning, without time limit and location and access, everywhere and at any time. 10. "Publisher of a cognitive book, textbook and study kit" is a natural person registered under the Commercial Law or a legal person to whom the authors have granted their copyrights to participate in an evaluation and approval procedure opened by the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as for the subsequent printing and distribution activities. 11. "Qualification credit" is a measure of the time in which the pedagogical specialist has been trained to improve his qualification under the programs of the organizations under art. 222, para. 1. A qualifying credit is awarded for 16 academic hours, of which no less than 8 academic hours are present. 12. Key competences are a complex of mutually dependent knowledge, skills and attitudes or relationships necessary for the personal development of the individual throughout life, for the establishment of an active civic position and participation in social life, as well as for his suitability for the realization of the labour market established at national level in accordance with the European Reference Framework for key competences for lifelong learning adopted by Recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006. 13. The course is a training for acquiring competences for the initial stage of primary education, sufficient to continue education in the next stage. 14. The language in which they speak in their family is Mother's language: (a) children and students from ethnic minority groups who traditionally or significantly reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) the children of the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation engaged in work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 15. The educational environment is a collection of conditions, factors and elements that ensure effective implementation of the educational process and active interaction of all stakeholders in order to achieve sustainability in the functioning of the pre-school and school education system. 16. "Training organizations" are organizations established in accordance with the Commercial Law, the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities or the Law on Cooperatives, for carrying out training, maintenance and improvement of the qualification of pedagogical specialists. 17. The General European Language Framework (for learning, teaching and evaluation) is an act of the Council of Europe drawn up in accordance with the recommendations R (82) 18 and R (98) 6 of the Committee of Ministers to achieve greater unity between the Member States, which is a common basis for developing curricula in foreign languages, regulations, examinations and textbooks. It defines the knowledge and skills to be acquired in a foreign language for the purpose of successful communication through the levels of competence that allow to measure the progress of training both at each stage of training and in the long term. 18. The drop-out from school is the discharge from school to school until the age of 18 on the basis of art. 173, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 before completing the final high school class if the person is not enrolled in another school. 19. A printed edition with an electronic version is a printed edition with a version presented in digital form, allowing for visualization of processes, phenomena and actions and for interactive learning. 20. "Repeat" within the meaning of art. Only one year after the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty on the person for the same infringement. 21. "Prematurely dropped out of school' is a person aged between 18 and 24 who has completed the most basic education which does not participate in any form of education or training. 22. It is a process of awareness, acceptance and support of the individuality of every child or student and of the diversity of needs of all children and students through activation and inclusion of resources aimed at removing obstacles to learning and learning and creating opportunities for development and participation of children and students in all aspects of community life. 23. "Psycho-social rehabilitation" is a complex of activities to assist students with difficulties, disability or disorder of their mental health to achieve an optimal level of independence and to acquire and implement the skills necessary for full participation in school. 24. "Useful support for children and students' is providing general and additional support based on the assessment of the needs of children and students, which includes carrying out activities by specialists aimed at personal development of children and students with special educational needs, and with a view to achieving the objectives set out in the support plans and in their individual curricula. 25. Rehabilitation in communication disorders is a complex of activities to assist children and students with difficulties, disability or language disorder, speech, cognitive processes and social behavior. 26. The parent is the person who exercises parental rights within the meaning of the Family Code. 27. The educational needs of a child and a student are the educational needs that can arise in sensory disabilities, physical disabilities, multiple disabilities, intellectual difficulties, language-speaking disorders, specific impairments of learning ability, autistic spectrum disorders, emotional and behavioral disorders. 28. The third State is any State which is not a member of the European Union and is not a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. 29. He is a student with secondary, compensated and reconvalescent forms of the relevant chronic disease. 30. The teacher is a teacher who assists an intern-teacher or a newly appointed teacher and gives him methodical support for the effective inclusion in the educational process, motivates professional improvement and career development. 31. The Financial Authority is the authorising officer with a budget within the meaning of the Public Finance Act, from which the activities of the school are financed, in kindergarten, the support centre for personal development or in the specialized service unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u75	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to protect the proposal we have made from the Reformation Bloc, an importer is colleague Boris Stanimirov, for a new item 24. It is not supported by the Commission, but I think that, colleagues, we can really vote in conscience for this proposal, and it really does concern some of this good practice which this National Assembly has already created and it is to give an adequate assessment of the communist regime in Bulgaria and the crimes that have been committed during these years. What we have proposed from the Reformation Bloc is that as point 24 by importer, a legal definition should be added in terms of what civil position education involves, the education that children receive for what is the rule of law and as part of it it is appropriate that they also receive information about the crimes of totalitarian regimes in Europe, including, of course, the communist regime which has been declared, as you know, by a law of crime. This is our proposal, and I am asking you really, in conscience, which, as you have decided, to support it eventually. It's really important to say these things. It is important that this generation that grows and is born after 1989 really know what has happened and have an obligation for people who teach and train to really say these things as they have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u77	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! This text, which I have signed, is extremely important. It is important because 25 years in our country was not actually put in any curriculum the study not just of the communist regime but of totalitarian regimes before and after 9 September. For this reason, there have been many studies that show total ignorance of this latest history. In developed democracies in Europe, this history is the subject of serious scientific interest, which is expressed in the creation of tools, of various optional forms, workshops, discussions, extracurricular and class forms for studying this nearest past. One of the main reasons why this should not be a text of law is that we cannot say in law what should be studied. This was supposed to be part of the curriculum. Okay, I accept such a thesis, but I ask: for what reason 25 years in the context of democratic development, no government, I emphasise any government, including that in which I have been the MP of the 38th National Assembly, no government has included the study of this text, of this history in the curricula of our country? I'm asking: why? What are we ashamed of? Are we making democracy or making a post-communist form of government? The main conclusions that every young person should draw are given by the teacher in the primary or middle course. There are very diverse courses in Europe for nothing, which are aimed precisely at the basic and the average course. And I will take the liberty of quoting what is being studied in European countries, those who have been with us when we have made the changes. First of all, there is an international initiative to remember: a memory of totalitarianism in Europe. This is Christomatia for high-school students across Europe. Written by Jillian Peirce. Then in Albania, I will start with Albania, listen to what is in Albania: a curriculum entitled "New perspective in teaching the history of communism in Albania" and "8th grade." In Germany: a curriculum for students from the average course, for 15-19-year-olds. Other forms of training in Germany, seminars, workshops, discussions and others. Estonia: study aid for students from the middle course....................................................................................................... The crimes of the Communist regime. Latvia: training through interactive lessons on the topic of the Russian mass deportations. Romania: optional training course for high schools "History of Communism in Romania." Target group of students from the upper classes of the average course, 17-19 years old. Training aids on the topic of the rights in Romania's modern history. Target group of students aged 10 to 14 years. To study history through the experience of the past is named this program "Securitas' under the supervision of the Securitas in the period 1970 - 1980." Slovakia: study aid Target group of students from the primary and average course. Czech Republic: story of injustice, film month in schools. I ask the following question: why has there never been any educational initiative taken up by the Ministry or any civil associations to give a real idea of what happened before 9 September in any of these 25 years, and what happened after 9 September? And because there is obviously no will in Bulgaria, mainly political, because it is no secret that periodically BSP comes to power in some form of coalition, we have seen how they defended their past, how they do not accept the assessment of the society what this past was and it is clear that there is no way for Bulgaria to build serious resistance opportunities against totalitarianism as a whole, against dictatorships as a whole. Therefore, training is needed, so new knowledge is needed, and this new knowledge, since there is no voluntary way to do so, must be done by law. So we need to write it in a law to know that this is an absolute requirement for the development of modern society. It would be a shame if we didn't support this proposal. This means that we become, as colleagues on the left, to conceal truths from the past.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u79	A new item has been proposed to colleagues who have spoken so far on this proposal. 24 in art. 5, t. 6 of the texts already voted to record this text which they propose, but a link between what we have voted on in art. 5, t. Six... [[Heckling]] That would be a whole new point? [[Noise and lines.]] In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 The main objectives of preschool and school education are mentioned. They are: point 5.. early detection of the talents and abilities of each child and student and promoting its development and realization. Point 6: forming sustainable attitudes and motivation for lifelong learning. [[Noise and lines.]] Any lines to Mr. Andreev? I won't. A statement by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the spirit of the argumentation of importers, this proposal is even insufficient. You should have proposed as basic study aids to include the archive materials of the Commission on the files to be studied in the upper secondary school course. There to test the children for the names of the employees of State Security and for the collaborators. And to increase the rigour of this issue, to reenact abuse from previous decades, and this is done in the form of different role-playing, reenactments, so that children can understand well what has happened and what they are studying. As in a successful newspaper article, the discussion on a similar issue had been reflected before, and it said: "While the MPs cancelled the statute of limitations for communism crimes, the statute of limitations for the crimes during the transition expired. So in this spirit you can continue further, but, Madam President, I think there is partly some rationality in the proposal, but if it is substantially editorialally changed. I propose that, after the text, the demands of democracy and the rule of law, of human rights and freedoms, the rest of the text be dismissed, and to be supplemented by the following wording: 'including the achievements and violations of fundamental rights of citizens in the 20th century'. So when studying the history of the 20th century, it should be studied in fullness. You cannot say: let us take a section of this story, in it we introduce it and rewrite it as we are now comfortable, so along with the fact that there were camps that were reacting to other camps before 9 September 1944, that there were attacks against the lives of certain people as a reaction to the killing of hundreds of thousands of people before that, let this story be known in its fullness. Let it be said that there was a limitation of political rights and freedoms, including the opportunities for association and political expression, but at the same time Bulgaria made significant economic progress, every single person had a job, everyone could study for free, to be treated for free, to rest, to have certain old age. Let's talk about these matters. Why are you afraid? If you've told the truth, you must accept this amendment. We are not afraid or denying anything of history. It should basically be known, but you just want to rewrite your history, deal with only one past period and thus justify your actual political and management bankruptcy. Continue on this path, but then it can only sound like a joke that today, on another occasion, was expressed or unconsciously, that if one had to be punished or sent away before, as you wish, to Siberia, Parliament would now have to meet after the democratic period in Antarctica. I don't think this is the way of Bulgaria. We have to deal seriously with today's problems and yet I say my editing does not partly exclude your idea, but this text or should not be here at all, because it does not explain any other text of the basics provisions, but if you do decide to include such an additional point, it should be in this wider content that does not frame the subject which, in the current diversity of textbooks and teaching aids, gives the opportunity to unfold this discussion and anyone who wants to be able to see into it, even choose those elements that it considers most useful. Instead of doing these exercises, here are adopted and some additional texts that you should write in the Additional...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u81	Do you have in writing the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u82	Yeah, I'll spell it out, but just one more note to make on t. 29, where you define and should understand in an understandable language what a student with chronic diseases is. Among other things, you end up saying "reconvalescent forms of the relevant underlying disease." Perhaps all medics can decipher this text, but hardly any teacher can understand what this is about, so write texts to clarify the Additional Provisions. My proposal, Madam President, which concludes the speech, is in point. 24, if it does not fall, the remainder of the text shall be removed after the comma and replaced by the words... including the achievements and violations regarding fundamental rights of citizens in the 20th century........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u83	We didn't accept that text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u84	Give it in writing that I couldn't remember it. Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? Mr. Andreev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u85	Mr. Stoilov, in your speech there are two parts I'm gonna start with the destructive one so I don't give a bad impression at the end. There was one of your fellow party members named Philip Bokov, who at the beginning of the transition from this tribune spoke one of the most insolent speeches in this Parliament that you BSP accept wines with appetizers. Excuse me, Mr. Stoilov, but you're a doctor of law, you're a university teacher and you're not allowed to know that there are trainings in Germany, students go there, students go there to their Commission of Files, to the Commission of Marianne Birtle. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] They hold seminars there, they train there so there will never be communism in Germany again. Which of you Socialists went to Budapest, must have visited the so-called "Museum of totalitarianism" because there was fascism in Budapest during the Horti regime. There, when you enter this museum, you will see a Russian T-34 tank with a broken barrel. You will see in all halls divided into two on one side the crimes of Nazism and fascism, on the other side the crimes of communism. So, Mr. University Lecturer, don't abuse my opinion of you that you are a highly intelligent informed person. The second part, which is the constructive part. If you have heard carefully what I suggested, I suggested the following: to study the latest history of dictatorial regimes before 9th and after 9th September. No one denies democracy starts on November 10th. No one is arguing that before September 9th there were also times of dictatorship, but let us learn the truth. Is it true that the September uprising is the first anti-fascist uprising in Europe, so it's still written in the textbooks? That's a shame. Is it true that the attack in St. Sunday is as written in the textbooks? Is it true that Georgi Dimitrov is the teacher of the Bulgarian people? The murderer of the Bulgarian people?! Look, we should call these things by their real names.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u86	Your cue time is up, Mr. Andreev. Second line, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u87	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stoilov! Why should children at school be aware of fascism and communism and the outrage done during these periods so that these things will never be repeated again? That is, if we never want these things to happen again either in Bulgaria or in Europe, if they can, at all, not happen, the children need to be aware of what it is about, because there are a lot of delusions. Have you heard the very statement, fellow Members, that you are tired today of colleague Yanaki Stoilov? He says so: in communism there was no unemployment, all had health care, all had pensions, all were happy. Is that true? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Is that true, colleagues? And because it is not true, because it is a lie, therefore should children be introduced in order not to believe such lies, not to be deceived in this very way. Because if they don't study the crimes of communism and fascism in school, they'll be lied to that way. I'd ask you this: now in North Korea, everyone must have a job. I don't think there's unemployment there. Everyone formally has jobs. But everybody's got work to do. All formally have health care, all formally have pensions. So, are these people happy?! Is this the sample we want?! Because all of us, who want Bulgaria to develop as a democratic European state, do not want any more communism or fascism in Bulgaria. They're both very bad, we can't tell which is worse. They're both on different sides of the same coin. Therefore, in school, the crimes of communism and fascism should be studied so that children can know, and when someone tries to tell them that then the Bulgarian was happier during communism or fascism, or fascism somewhere in Europe, that people were happier, then the children know that it is not true that this is a lie and not to be misled by such insinuations. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Therefore, there should be such education in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u88	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, I have to answer, although the lines that were given to me are even below the level of school educators, because these are primitive arguments from people who see how they are ready to teach Bulgarian history. Mr. Dimitrov, speaking of communism and fascism, some of these concepts are not categorically accurate because the system that existed in Bulgaria for decades is not communist. It was dominated by the Communist Party. It may be called state socialism, state capitalism, according to some, but you have to deal more seriously with the essence of problems than ideological clichés, because this is how you reproduce some primitive stereotypes that do not speak the truth. In addition, when comparing comparable systems in some respects, you must also understand the differences, because according to communist ideology, one of the leading principles is the internationalism and the principle of equality of different peoples, and fascism or nationalism is based on the exclusivity of a race, a nation of these are opposing things. Gentlemen, this is not some seminar to get into discussion on these issues. They only show that you do not want to get to know history in its depth and complete factual clarity. You want, having underestimated the educational function of the Bulgarian school, to plant certain clichés and to brainwash the new generation in a similar way that was done in early socialism. You're very behind. You reproduce with a reverse sign what you deny. [[Reply by National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] It's not the first time that the biggest enemies are often very similar. There have been such discussions on other topics in the Bulgarian Parliament "those who mostly deny each other, finally turn out to be the two sides of the same coin. That is why I believe that my proposal is much more meaningful, and if you think that this subject should be affected at all, you must support it. If you do not support it, we must reject what is being said, because, again, you are not taking any step towards lensing the school's knowledge. You are trying to plant a single, correct ideology that should confess the children who study at this school. That's what we're questioning, and we won't accept whatever you write. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u90	To speak, Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I am a collaborator of the text that is widely debated today in plenary, and my main argument is one of the biggest, not to say, the biggest crime that the communist regime has committed is the violent Macedonianization of the Bulgarians in Macedonia. A crime that is a crime against humanity; a crime that deborn millions of Bulgarians to be others; a crime committed after September 9th by the Communist Party of Bulgaria, to which today the BSP is an heir, and they claim that, sending teachers from Yugoslavia to Pirin Macedonia and forcing children to study false history and supposedly Macedonian language. [[BSP LB.]] I want to ask BSP: when will you apologize for this crime? Come out on this stand and say:..we apologize!..as you apologized for the revival process. If you are Bulgarians, if you deny the crime that has been committed, come out here and say: "We, BSP, as heirs of the BCP, apologize to the Macedonian Bulgarians for forcefully making them others and asking for forgiveness. If you're men, do it! Don't just do the rafts on the DPS, but do what the Bulgarian people expect of you. If you do it here and now, even though I'm a collaborator, I will not vote for this text. I call on you: go out and do it! Take the blame and ask for forgiveness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u92	First line? Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, with my line I would like to thank you for reminding us of the violent Macedonianization and it is for her sake that I call you to support this text. I would like to stress that, as an importer, I expected, of course, an emotional reaction, but in essence, this proposal is rather technical. It reflects the impact of other laws from the current Bulgarian and European legislation on the new Law on school and pre-school education, which we are currently looking at. We have a law in force that defines the communist regime as criminal; we have a decision of the Penal Code that defines the crimes of this regime as non-prevalenceable, that is, particularly dangerous; we have a declaration of the Fortyth National Assembly in support of the Prague Declaration of totalitarianism. I think it is quite logical that these regulations, as well as the many European regulations, should be reflected in our Law, all the more so that the Declaration of the European Parliament on the European conscience and totalitarianism of 2009 explicitly advises governments to pay particular attention to the history training because of these regimes. I am pleasantly surprised by colleagues from the left who pay attention to the need to study all totalitarian regimes. That's exactly what we're proposing. Europe, including Bulgaria, has consistently condemned the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. This proposal, no less than proposing to study the crimes of the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century, is all totalitarian regimes which are uniquely characterised for the international community as criminal and dangerous. The aim is to give awareness to young people in order to form objective opinions and to know why these regimes are criminal, why they are humane, why these ideologies are dangerous. In this way there should be prevention of the revival of these ideologies nowadays. We see them constantly trying to pop up. There's them both on the left and on the right. So please support this bill so that we are not the only country that refuses to teach part of the traumatic history of the 20th century.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u94	Second line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u95	Madam President! Mr. Angelov, I am using the theme that you have put forward, to really say that in the second half of the 1940s, unacceptable actions have been taken with regard to people with Bulgarian self-consciousness who have returned from the territory of Macedonia precisely because they believe they are Bulgarians. Some of them were forcibly recorded by nationality or nationality as Macedonians. This must really not be allowed, not be repeated. It was in the context of trying to make a large Balkan Federation with the participation of Bulgaria and a country that would be strong enough so that it would not be subject to the great powers. This is just an explanation, not an excuse for these circumstances. I'm saying this because we've been striving for history to be explored and understood as it is. When you speak, you no longer, within the subject of saying everything that was, we have to say both positive and negative things. Why, for example, when we go back to medieval history, we say that Bulgaria has glorious pages in its history, there are dark periods, and when it comes to the 20th century, you want to talk about that only Bulgaria was almost some concentration camp. What do you accomplish with this thing? What self-esteem do you give to those people who want to live in the 21st century in Bulgaria? Be realistic, be responsible for history and the present. Don't be political primitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u96	Third line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u97	Madam President, I'm going to allow myself a quote from many years ago: Our Party recognizes the objectively created after World War II in Vardar Macedonia, the People's Republic of Macedonia within the FNRY. We also recognise that Macedonian national consciousness is formed in the People's Republic of Macedonia. It is formed on an anti-Bulgarian basis, and we are decisively opposed to it and we believe that if this issue is not regulated, it will be a constant source of quarrels, disruptions and obstacles in our development. Both in the Middle Ages and in the new history and in the latest history, Macedonia has existed only as a territorial and political concept, not as an ethnic concept, not as a separate nationality. The population of the Pirin region is part of the Bulgarian nation. There's no Macedonian nationality there and there can't be. There was not the establishment of a Macedonian national consciousness, as in Vardar Macedonia, although we very much cooperated with it and at least it could ever be said to join this nation. So everything we've done so far has been violence over the will of this population. In the future, we should oppose all aspirations, wherever they come from, to charge this population as Macedonian citizenship. Todor Zhivkov, March 1963, Plenum of the BCP.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u98	A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, Mr. Stoilov, this is not about people who have come from Macedonia to Bulgaria who are enrolled Macedonians, but about the indigenous population of Pirin Macedonia. So when you speak, speak correctly. We are talking about the Bulgarians from Pirin Macedonia who were forced to make others; the Bulgarians who were pomadedonced in Vardar Macedonia, subsequently in Albania, Aegean Macedonia and Greece. What Todor Zhivkov said in 1963 means nothing! Until you say, "We apologize for this darkness, what we have created, what Comintern has created!" Apologize! Get out on this stand and say: "Excuse me, Bulgarians from Macedonia!" [[a line from MP Tasco Ermenkov]] Like you did for the rebirth process. Do it! [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Do it and say it! Be men! When it suits you, you're men when it doesn't suit you, you're not men. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u100	Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u101	Madam President, I am doing a procedure to end the debate with the following two arguments. Firstly, this debate has been quite thorough and similarly reinforced in the Commission. Of course, both sides were dissatisfied. Secondly, we are not here today to lecture on history, and the topics discussed in Bulgarian education are subject to the curriculum, in no case the Preschool and School Education Act. Debate termination procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u102	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm putting the procedure to the vote. [[The National Representative Velizar Enchev wants the floor for a reverse opinion.]] You guys are talking to each other there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u103	He was waiting for a clue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u104	No, I didn't know the procedure. I'm not waiting for anyone's clue, and you know it. Reverse procedure. I think the debate should continue. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Yeah, why not? If you are afraid of something, you will vote on the lady's proposal, if you are not afraid, you will vote on my proposal, as I have a concrete proposal that I would like to make to Mr. Metodi Andreev. It contains only two sentences, if you let me do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u105	Do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u106	I suggest to what Mr. Andreev said, I agree, Mr. Andreev, your cause is anticommunism. To what you are proposing, I suggest that a comma be placed and written: "Including to study the relapses of the democratic transition in Bulgaria" [[single applause from BSP LB]] , during which the criminal groups (CIC and VIS), financial and construction pyramids and our credit millionaires were created................. this proposal is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u107	It's not admissible. How do we write companies in the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u108	You'll give it to me in writing. Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedure for ending the deliberations under § 1. Vote 98 MPs: 78 against 17, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u109	Thank you, Madam President. I hesitated, but I thought I should take the floor. I strongly object to the fact that you pass on such a type of speech as my colleague Yanaki Stoilov and keep them quiet. It can't, it's unacceptable, we are all colleagues here in the Chamber, to come out of the height of the House and not to say what, to call one part of the Members of the National Assembly a political primitive. This is unacceptable, this is a public insult. Otherwise, many things could be said as objections. I want to tell you, Mr. Stoilov, that the first MP in this National Assembly, who has declared that there is a Macedonian nation, is named Dimitar Blagoev in 1919, who founded your party. Isn't that right? Many other things can be said in this regard. The debate would be interesting, but, of course, we shouldn't spend so much time now. Do not allow yourself such treatment to colleagues, because this is unacceptable. I don't know from the height of what do you dare to call people who have their position, political primitives?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u110	I accept the procedure in the manner of conduct. I admit, that's exactly the kind of line I haven't heard, I've probably been distracted here and with the lyrics. I will refer to the transcript, but in any case such qualifications are inadmissible to the Members of the National Assembly, no matter which side of the Chamber They're coming. Colleagues, I ask that we stick to the good tone, despite the emotions that it is quite normal to put into such sharp political debates as they are currently taking place. I put to the vote the name "Additional provisions', which is supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The term "Additional Provisions" has been adopted unanimously. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Boris Stanimirov and a group of MPs for a new item. 24 to § 1 "Additional provisions', in the version of their proposal, which is on p. 382 of the Commission's report. [[Reply from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Wait a minute, cancel the vote! You have an offer for what?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u111	Editing into this item. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u112	Colleagues, this proposal is not supported. You're proposing an unsupported proposal. If this text is adopted, then I will put the two proposals to the vote to Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Mr. Velizar Enchev. However, they are by text which is not supported in the report, and I am obliged to put them to the vote in this order. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Boris Stanimirov and a group of MPs for a new item. 24 in its version, which is on page 24. 382, and this proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 21, against 23, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u113	Madam President, I am asking for a revoting because I feel that some of the colleagues from GERB did not understand that we are voting on the proposal of the MPs from the Reformation Bloc, GERB and the Patriotic Front. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u114	Revoting, coworkers! The debate is over. Now without emotion, we have to vote. They voted 91 MPs: 23, against 23, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Since the proposal is not accepted, I cannot put to the vote an addition to it, and these are the additions of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Mr. Velizar Enchev. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: for 7, against 66, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Miho Mihov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 11 against 4, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 13, against 60, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u115	Paragraph 2? a proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) The provisions of this Law shall apply to evening schools in accordance with the specifics and organisation of training in them. (2) The provisions of Chapter 14 shall not apply to spiritual schools, evening schools, schools to prisons, special schools under art. 44, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 as well as private kindergartens and private schools which do not receive funds from the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u116	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 79 MPs: 13 against 55, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 71 against 8, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u117	Proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made according to the order of art. 80, para 4, item 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. Professional high schools under art. 38, para. 4 do not include professional high schools financed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and these professional high schools are municipal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. Proposal by the MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Snezana Dukova, made in accordance with Art. 80, para 4, item 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. (1) Children's gardens and schools established and conducting training in the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with the requirements of a foreign country for the purposes of this law shall be aligned to kindergartens and schools operating in the territory of the foreign country concerned. (2) For the results of the training in kindergartens and schools under para. 1 The provisions of Chapter Eight shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u118	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u119	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. All of a sudden, in the Law, in the Additional Provisions, it is proposed that professional high schools, which are in the composition of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, become all the Anblok municipal. There has been no discussion or financial analysis. This is also evidenced by the response of the Minister of Agriculture, who answered my question at the beginning of the year that a serious analysis of the activities of professional schools will be carried out. They are 76 in number, at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and are in 12 scientific directions in the field of plant farming, livestock farming, forestry, food industry. The aim of the Ministry is to improve their financial situation by increasing delegated budgets and enabling these same professional high schools to improve their base with participation in the Rural Development Programme and the technical assistance for which these schools can be supported. All of a sudden, you're saying they're becoming municipal. My objections are in four directions. Firstly, municipalities cannot provide funding for these schools. They cannot, because their budget in any form cannot be sufficient for their functioning. The experience from 2007 to 2010, when there was a desire of the municipalities themselves to manage such professional high schools, shows that they cannot handle it. There are three or four cases in which with a decision of the Municipal Council the high school was transferred to the municipality and after one or two years it quit because it cannot provide this support which is necessary for the support of these unique, I would say, for Bulgaria educational centers. They're, first of all, in small settlements. Secondly, professionally train future farmers, farmers, conduct training courses, have a very good material base to carry out their activities. All this, transferred to municipalities, creates prerequisites for these schools to disappear and practically Bulgaria to remain one of the countries in which we do not have professionally prepared average personnel to support agriculture. Business has always insisted on developing and supporting these educational centers. But transferring them to the municipalities would, in my opinion, be an extremely gross mistake. In addition, professional high schools are scheduled in the Rural Development Programme with support. When they go to the municipalities, it just won't happen. One resource of the order of 25-30 million, which can go for technical improvement, will fail due to the fact that you will not have a beneficiary who can take advantage of this activity. Further on in the "Transitional and final provisions" I will make my proposal, but it is said that we are transferring the assets of the high schools into the municipalities. However, there is a lack of the concept of agricultural land, because these high schools...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u120	When we come, Mrs. Bachvarova, the transversal and final provisions.................................................................................................... we are Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u121	My suggestion is that you reconsider this. There will be an extremely rude mistake. In most European countries, including France, these high schools are to the respective ministry with the preparation of programmes, with access to European funding. This proposal, made without discussion, by the way, which I say I have an answer from the Minister of Agriculture on these issues, will, in my opinion, really lead to their closure and liquidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After dealing with the reconstruction of history, we now come to the real problems of what are the consequences of adopting a number of texts of this Law, the consequences of which we have constantly warned over the past few weeks. Once again, some will be affected by calling this policy a somewhat liquidation policy in education. Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister and all who are authors supporting this Law! A liquidation policy was held in Bulgarian agriculture in the early 1990s under the slogan for democratization and return of ownership, but there is no link between the restoration of ownership and the destruction of structures. Because you say, "We do not remove these schools." You formally do not remove them, but by transferring them entirely to the municipalities, you say that the state will no longer conduct an educational policy in the field of vocational education in the field of agriculture. This is the result of this text. Because one community might think that such a school would be appropriate for her, another would say that she didn't need it. As a result, a gradual majority of these schools will probably be converted into general education, some of them will probably be merged with some other technician, e.g. in clothing and shoes and agriculture, and a third part will be closed. I do not claim that all existing, tens of them, agricultural schools must be state schools, but the state needs several of them, to call them schools of national importance, which are regionally located, which specialize in agriculture, veterinary matters, other activities. We are talking that agriculture should be one of the main priorities of the economy, and the state does not deal with this activity. The Directorate dealing with these issues was closed in the Ministry of Agriculture within the framework of this mandate. Now we see that this carelessness continues and the Ministry is completely no longer interested in the issue. Because here, along with the Minister of Education, it had to be a true Minister of Agriculture to defend this policy and to say: "We will propose, as has been said, another strategy in which to say how many, what schools of state support and government in the field of agriculture will be preserved. The rest of us transfer them to the municipalities and they can decide whether to continue maintaining them as such professional high schools. That's why my proposal is for § 3 to be dropped. Furthermore, § 10 only settles the consequences, but if § 3 fails here, the content of § 10 can be corrected and it can be reflected exactly what I am talking about, the state education policy to cover major sectors. As there is in culture, it is necessary in agriculture, perhaps in another sector.. It should be continued and not like the activities of municipalities, because even the largest municipality is not obliged to be responsible for public policy. It should train people that it believes it needs, and in many cases these activities go beyond the purely local meaning. There come children from different districts, from different municipalities and these schools have a rich material base. One of the consequences, you will see, will be for taking.. Whether you initially toss them the lands they enjoy, because there are great appetites for them by tenants and other people who want to earn subsidies with the development of production and not to be used for training and practice of the children who are in them. Therefore, if you really are reasonable, in this case I think it is a little easier, because it is not so much ideology, but politics, to reject § 3 of the Additional Provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u124	First line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal is not editorial, but I will suggest... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Relax, Mr. Stoilov. I will propose that we vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 and then paragraphs 4 and 5 as read to you by the President of the Commission for Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u125	The motion is to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u126	You have no right to do now...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u127	It can be done at any moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u128	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 3. [[BSP LB.]] We are voting § 3, a newly created paragraph. If rejected, this is your proposal. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Yours is not an editorial motion to drop out. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] You did it on the committee. You have... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, Mr. Stoilov, my proposal is: we are voting to create a new § 3, if it is rejected, this is your proposal, which is accepted, it is quite clear. Even colleagues, if you wish, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov to fall under § 3 unsupported by the Commission. Voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Paragraph 3 new to make a proposal by Yanaki Stoilov. [[Heckling]] I said, "Janaki Stoilov's proposal from the stands will be dropped." [[Noise and lines.]] The proposal of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov, made by the stands to be dismissed......................................................................................... Then we will vote if this is not accepted, the Commission's proposal for a new § 3. Isn't that right, Mr. Stoilov? That's what you wanted. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Yes, thank you. Vote 67 MPs: 8 against 48, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3. Abort the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] There are more colleagues who... [[Noise and lines.]] Abort the vote, you'll ask for a re-vote. Take it easy, guys. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Vote 71 MPs: 64 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Loud noise. Replies: "Not accepted. "]] Under the quorum, yes. That's not acceptable. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a re-vote because our colleagues could not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u130	Revoting regime, fellow Members, a new § 3 under the Commission. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. Are there any colleagues who didn't vote? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. Abort the vote. Vote 76 MPs: 66, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please be quiet in the hall. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Stoilov, if you please, a little peace of mind. My request is that there be no movement in this room, colleagues. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 4 and § 5. Paragraph 3, which becomes § 4, and a new § 5. The Commission's voting regime. Vote 84 MPs: 76 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u131	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u132	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Anblok "Transitional and final provisions" - the name of the division, § 6 and § 7 under the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u133	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 6 of para. 3 the words "not later than 31 May 2016' shall be replaced by the words "not later than 16 May 2020'. In § 6, para. 4 is deleted; In § 6, para. 5 words in the 2016-2017 school year are replaced by the words until the 2019-2020 school year. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... (1) The secondary schools, secondary schools, secondary schools and vocational schools under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 6 and 8 of the repealed Law on People's Education continue to operate under this law, respectively as primary schools, profiled schools, secondary schools and vocational schools. (2) The schools of healing which have entered into force at the time of the entry into force of the law shall continue to carry out their activities as secondary schools. (3) Proposals for transformation of the welded to the entry into force of the Law municipal primary schools under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 of the repealed Law on People's Education in schools under art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of this law may be imported year-round, no later than 31 May 2017. After that period, the proposals for conversion shall be submitted subject to Chapter eighteen. (4) The primary schools under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 of the repealed Law on People's Education can be converted into unified schools under art. 38, para. 1, t. 4 of this law after analysis and opinion of the Regional Management of Education and decision of the respective municipal council. (5) The proposals for the conversion of the schools under art. 26, para. 1, t. 5 of the repealed Law on People's Education with a profile Natural Mathematical and Humanitaren, which carry out admission in V grade, in schools under art. 38, para. 1, t. 5 of this law shall be imported at the request of the school and under the conditions of para. 3. (6) The primary and secondary schools who entered into force of the Law shall have the right to conduct training in the VIIIth grade in the academic year 2016-2017 and to issue a certificate of primary education. (7) The schools under art. 26, para. 1, t. 5 of the repealed Law on People's Education with a profile of the Natural Mathematical or Humanitaren and with a admission in the V class have the right to continue teaching in V, VI and VII classes of students who were adopted before the entry into force of the law. (8) The employment relations of the employees from the transformed schools under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u134	Statements? I won't. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 12, against 67, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 6 which becomes § 8 on the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u135	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal: The words "Mathematics schools" shall be added after the words "in the arts." Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) The state and municipal professional high schools which have been entered into force by the Law continue to carry out their activities as state schools, respectively as municipal schools under art. 38, para. 2, p. 2. (2) By 1 November 2016, the Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science by decision, announce the state and municipal schools under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1-7 of the repealed Law on People's Education, which are of national importance within the meaning of art. 38, para. 9 of this law. The decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) With the decision under para. 2 municipal schools are declared state schools. (4) With effect from 1 January 2017, the public schools, with the exception of the public schools under para. 1 and 2, auxiliary schools, schools of art. 43, schools of arts, schools of culture and public sports schools, become municipal schools and are financed by the budgets of the respective municipalities. (5) The working relationships of the employees in the schools under para. 2 and 4 shall be settled in accordance with art. 123 of the Labor Code. (6) Provided before the entry into force of the Law of the Schools under para. 4 properties of public state property, from the date of entry into force of the Law, are transferred to the property of the municipality, in the territory of which they are located, and become public municipal property, and the property of the State property becomes the property of the municipality financing the school. (7) The properties and belongings under para. 6 are provided for the management of the school which managed them until the entry into force of the Law and are used only for the purposes of the educational process, without changing their purpose. (8) When the headquarters of the school managing the properties under para. 6 at the entry into force of the Law, is outside the territory of the municipality, which acquires them after its entry into force, the municipality's acquirer provides the properties for the management of schools financed by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Statements? I won't. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. Vote 81 MPs: 8 against 61 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the version of § 7 on the Commission, which becomes § 9. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u137	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new §10: ..................................................... (1) The professional high schools financed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food became municipal until the entry into force of the law. (2) Provided until the entry into force of the law of the professional schools under para. 1 properties and belongings continue to be used to secure their activities under this law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The Bulgarian kindergartens and schools with foreign participation shall continue to carry out their activities as state kindergartens or schools within the meaning of art. 35 para. 2, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 43. c. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u138	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After eliminating 76 professional high schools, where 28,000 students are taught, you continue with this text, giving prerequisites for them to be liquidated in the first year. Because the recording in the text shows that they're being transferred to the municipalities, notice, properties. But these high schools do their work on agricultural land. They are trained on agricultural land along with the equipment and building fund they have. The transfer of the building fund alone will not create any opportunities for vocational training, including in municipalities that will be willing to continue the work of these schools accordingly. [[Reply from rapporteur Milena Damyanova.]] My particular proposal for the editing of § 10 is in para. 2 after the words "al." 1 "Include agricultural land, real estate. If you do not do this, the main question remains for me that these high schools are being liquidated because of agricultural land. It is a third or fourth attempt that the land given by order of the Minister of Professional High Schools should be taken away and given to those who have the greatest interest in processing the land.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u140	One more time in which paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u141	In the new § 10, para. 2, after the words................................................................................................ 1 "To add the land of agriculture and then continue the text: the land of agricultural land of agricultural land of agricultural land of agricultural land of agricultural land of agricultural land of There are over 35,000 acres of land in the same professional high schools. Believe me, what you're doing...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u142	They're real estate.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u143	No, it's not real estate. It's the Minister's orders. This isn't high school property. This is by order of the Minister of State Land Fund, provided for the implementation of the activity free of charge. If you don't turn it on, it means that that 35,000 acres of land will not be granted to professional high schools in any form. This means closing in the first year of the training activity. Do you understand? You are mistaken about your property is property, with the agricultural land ordered by the minister by order. My proposal is that you have a professional high school or a school that has five thousand acres of land. These five thousand acres are automatically transferred to the respective municipality and professional high school. The other means absolutely lobbying text, absolutely! Because behind this land, really, the interest is enormous. I've been Deputy Minister for four years, and I know what efforts were made to take the land away from professional high schools. Everyone in their districts has a school like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u144	Thank you. First line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov. Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By § 10, we continue the discussion of § 3. I want to tell you why this paragraph is contrary even to what you have adopted in § 9. Because in § 9 you have allowed the possibility to have state professional schools. Such exist at the moment, except in arts and sports, to which you have additional attention. I ask: why is it that, since the state does not completely refuse to maintain state vocational schools, only in the sector of.................... she says that there can be no state education policy, and all this should go to municipalities? I see neither management nor formal logic in such an approach. In order to avoid this discrepancy, Mr. President, I propose an amendment which could be perceived as admissible and the text of § 10 2 in para. 1 read as follows: The professional high schools financed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, under the list of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, remain state schools until the entry into force of the Law. From this text, if it is adopted, it follows that the Minister of Agriculture can review all the existing professional high schools, to consider that some of them are not necessary. 2, which preserves their property and land they use, and in a more limited number of these vocational schools, as well as other sectors, will be able to continue to exist as an element of state education policy in the field of agriculture. Consider once again this is the last opportunity to avoid a big and difficult error in time. This is my addition, which, through this editing, changes the meaning of the text with post-food inclusions and the list of the Minister of Agriculture and Food remains state-owned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u146	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. First, we are voting on the proposal for an amendment to the new § 10 proposed by the Commission in para. 2, after the second row: 1 "Agricultural land" is added and follows: "Moments and belongings." Isn't that right, Mrs. Bachvarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u148	That is, we add the agricultural land and then follow the properties and belongings. We vote on Mrs Bachvarova's proposal in this text. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yanaki Stoilov, which he proposed in the proposal of the Commission § 10, para. 1............................................................................................... This is the proposal of the MP Yanaki Stoilov. Isn't that right, Mr. Stoilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u150	Voting regime, fellow Members. They voted 85 MPs: 20, against 47, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Stoilov is proposing a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u151	Dear Members of Parliament, I do not underestimate that you know what we are voting for. I'm using the revoting procedure to rethink your vote. Often, some are angry that strong words are used in this room. What words should we use when you return us further back than the first half of the 20th century in which the Bulgarian state had such schools? Where are you going in the 19th century and what words should we use, Mr. Atanasov? I'm asking for a re-election procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u152	Dear colleagues, re-voting regime. I will repeat: we are voting on a proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov in § 10, para. 1 after the countries to be added by the list of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, remain state-owned. Dear colleagues, re-voting regime. Vote 87 MPs: 20, against 54, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with the proposal adopted in the Chamber by the MP Svetla Bachvarova: after para. 1...................................................................................... 2 of § 10 to be added to the agricultural land. We are voting on § 10, proposed by the Commission, with the supplement voted on in this House - agricultural land. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we are now voting on the Commission's proposal for § 8, which becomes § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u153	90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u154	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission is not in favour of the proposal......................................................................................................... Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. There's a technical pass here. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... (1) Hospital schools entered into force of the law shall be closed as from 1 January 2017 or converted into personal development support centres by order of the mayor of the municipality after a decision of the municipal council. (2) By the order under para. 1 shall be defined as the activity referred to in Article 1. 49, the headquarters and the management address of the centre concerned. (3) The working relationships of the employees from the transformed centres under para. 1 shall be governed by art. 123 of the Labor Code. (4) Students from closed hospital schools during the period of treatment shall continue their training under the conditions and under the procedure of art. 111 or 112. (5) The property and property provided for the management of hospital schools shall be owned by the Ministry of Education and Science, respectively in the management of the municipality in whose territory they are located. (6) The compulsory documentation of closed hospital schools shall be kept in the relevant regional management of education or at a school specified by the head of regional management of education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u155	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u156	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Our proposal is this. We're against the eradication of hospital schools. As you can see, this Law has been a wholeheartedly liquidating schools one after the other. Here's my personal request...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u157	An imprecise statement, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u158	My personal request to Minister Tanev is to give at least an opinion that one after another the different types of schools are being liquidated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u159	Tell me how many there are and who there are!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u160	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u161	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm against the word used by my colleague. Each text of our Final Provisions says that we close and convert, we find as another type of institution, because there is no terminology for there to be no closure in order to find the other structure. So please stop fooling around with the fact that we're shutting down schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u162	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 85 MPs: 12, against 59, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 12 in the version of the Commission Report. Vote 82 MPs: for 73, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u163	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal s § 10 is hereby repealed. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. It is identical with the proposal of the MP Stanislav Stanilov: The following changes shall be made in the transitional and final provisions: 1. Paragraph 10 is out. 2. Paragraphs 11 to the end shall change their numbering accordingly. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission is not in favour of the proposal........................................................................................................ Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 10, which becomes § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. (1) Within one year of the entry into force of the Act, the auxiliary schools shall be converted into state and municipal centers for special education support, by order of the Minister of Education and Science, issued under the terms and conditions of Chapter eighteenth, Section I. (2) By the order under para. 1 shall be defined as the activity referred to in Article 1. 49, the headquarters and the management address of the centre concerned. (3) The working relationships of the employees from the transformed centres under para. 1 shall be governed by art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u164	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u165	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are already going to the final chords of this Law, which, I'm afraid, instead of solving the problems of education, will deepen them. In this paragraph, as you want to be precise, you are not shutting down certain educational structures, but transforming them, only that they are no longer schools, but they are becoming ancillary forms which must, in part, continue to solve the problems of children with disabilities in this case. This is our difference?? Should some of these schools continue to create an appropriate environment for children for as long as possible from the day where they are trained, cared for and receive additional support for their personal development, expressed in modern, correct political language? But here you are saying that within one year from the entry into force of the Act, the auxiliary schools are converted into state and municipal centers for special education and that is, there will be no more auxiliary schools. Yeah, and that confession has to sound. Even I had some hope with what you voted in § 9, para. 4 I do not know whether it is conscious or a mistake, but there you have excluded the auxiliary schools from closing, which goes with the state specialized schools, because you say they will stay. That is to say, this is the only place that continues to contain the term "help school'. I hope that for this straw some of the people who work in the field of specialists, pedagogists, rehabilitators, parents, and until the deadlines for the implementation of the Law are met, the liquidation that has begun will not be fully carried out. We are opposed to what is written in § 13, because it seems that pό consistently expresses your intention, which is also contained in other provisions of the Law. These are the reasons for our concern. And we try, as you can see, to the last moment to correct the provisions so that the problems in Bulgarian education do not deepen. It remains in these final texts for you to decide whether today the joy of completing the Law will be satisfactory enough for you, or whether you will think about the consequences after the Law enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u166	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the motion to reject § 10 from the MP Stanislav Stanilov, from Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, and from Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs... The Commission does not support the rejection of this paragraph. Vote 87 MPs: 12, against 60, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 13 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14. Paragraph 12 "A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 12, the words "until the school year 2016' are replaced by the words "until the school year 2017'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u168	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the revision of § 12 which the Commission does not support. They voted 83 MPs: for 7, against 61, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We vote on paragraphs 14 and 15 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 80 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u169	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: ..created § 12a: 12a. The full-time organization of the school day under art. 101 is introduced in the 2015 school year for students in the VI class and started in the following classes in each subsequent school year.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u170	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 8 against 57 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u171	Paragraph 13 "A proposal from the National Representative Snezana Dukova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... (1) Up to one year after the entry into force of the law, persons who have been authorised to open a private kindergarten or private school under the conditions and under the repealed Law on People's Education shall establish their legal organisational form or registration in accordance with the requirements of this Law or establish a private kindergarten or private school as a commercial company, cooperative or non-profit legal entity. (2) No later than one month after the expiry of the term under para. 1 persons authorised to open a private kindergarten or private school under the conditions and under the repealed Law on People's Education shall apply for the continuation of the activities of the private kindergarten or private school under the terms and conditions of that law. (3) The application under para. 2 contains the props under art. 330, para. 2 and it shall indicate the legal person who will continue the activities of the welded private kindergarten or private school. (4) To the application under para. 2 The documents certifying the fulfilment of the requirements of para. 2 shall apply. 1 as well as a statement of the consent of the management bodies of the legal person who will continue the activities of the private kindergarten or private school where this is not the person authorised to open the kindergarten or school under the terms and conditions of the repealed Law on People's Education. (5) The Minister of Education and Science shall, within one month of the submission of the application under para. 2 issue an order authorising or refusing to authorise the continuation of the activities of the private kindergarten or private school. (6) The Minister of Education and Science shall refuse to permit the continuation of the activities of the private kindergarten or private school where: 1. the legal person to continue the activity has not been established as a commercial company, a non-profit entity, a cooperative or as a company under the legislation of a Member State; 2. the requirement of art. 2 has not been complied with. 329, para. Two and three. (7) On the basis of the order for permission to continue the activities, the private kindergarten or private school shall be entered in the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. (8) The Minister of Education and Science or an official authorised by him shall issue a certificate of entry under para. 7 within 7 days of its completion. (9) From the entry into the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education and issuing a certificate of entry, the legal person continuing the activities of the private kindergarten or private school shall assume the rights, obligations, relationships, property, assets and liabilities on the balance of the kindergarten or school. (10) After the expiry of the period referred to in para. 2 The Minister of Education and Science by order shall shut down private kindergartens and private schools for which no application under para. 2 or for which a refusal under para. 6. The order shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation unless otherwise provided. (11) In the order under para. 10 The conditions and procedures for relocating students and for storing the mandatory documentation of closed private kindergartens and schools shall be laid down. (12) Host of the rights and obligations of those closed under the conditions of para. 10 private kindergarten or private school is the person who has been authorised to open the kindergarten or the school under the repealed Law on People's Education. (13) Until the order under para. 5 or until the closure of the private kindergartens and private schools, their legal form, the relationship with the person authorised to open them, the conditions and arrangements for transformation, change and closure shall be governed by the repealed Law on People's Education and the relevant implementing regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u172	Statements? I won't. We vote § 16. Vote 82 MPs: 75, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u173	According to § 14 "A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The Commission does not support the proposal: "Paragraph 14 of Transitional and Final Provisions Droped." The proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs and of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs is identical. The Commission does not support the proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u174	Statements? I won't. Ann Block I put to the vote the identical proposals for rejection of § 14 of the MPs Mariana Todorova, Milen Mihov and a group of MPs and Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposals. Vote 80 MPs: 23, Against 55, abstention 2. The proposals have not been accepted. We are voting § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 68 against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u175	According to § 15 the proposal of the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. (1) With the entry into force of the 1. existing municipal service units of extra-school pedagogical institutions and for organized recreation and sport, continue to carry out their activities under this law as centers for support for personal development according to their activities under art. 49, having the right to maintain their names; 2. existing state service units, with the exception of the resource centres to support integrated training and training of children and students with special educational needs and the National Palace of Children, shall continue to carry out their activities under this law as the relevant specialized service units depending on their activities under art. 50. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of the law after a decision of the municipal council the mayor of the municipality concerned shall order the activity under art. 49 of the institutions under para. 1, t. 1. (3) Within 5 months of the entry into force of the law, the respective municipal council shall adopt rules on the structure and activities of the institutions under para. 1, t. 1. (4) Within three months of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Education and Science shall order the activity under art. 50 of the relevant institutions under para. 1, t. 2 and makes the rules of their work in accordance with this law. (5) The working relationships of the employees from the transformed institutions under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labour Code. According to § 16 the proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) With the entry into force of the law the National Palace of Children shall continue to carry out its activities under this law as a specialized service unit under art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 and may also carry out c. 1. (2) The activities under art. 49, para. 1, t. 1 which is not financed by the state budget shall be carried out for payment by the National Palace of Children in the amount of, under conditions and by order of order of the Minister of Education and Science. (3) Within three months of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Education and Science shall establish, in accordance with this law, the Rules of Procedure of the National Palace of Children. (4) The working relationships of the employees of the National Palace of Children under para. 1 shall be settled under the conditions of art. 123 of the Labour Code. According to § 17 the proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. (1) With the entry into force of the law the State Logopedic Center shall continue to carry out its activities under this law as a specialized service unit under art. 50, para. 1, t. 3 and 5 and may also carry out activities under art. 49, para. 1, t. 3. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Education and Science shall establish, in accordance with this law, the Rules of Procedure of the State Logopedic Center. (3) The working relationships of the employees of the State Logopedic Center under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u176	Statements? I won't. Ann Block, we vote paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u177	According to § 18, a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: "Paragraph 18 is deleted. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in the order of L. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 18, which becomes § 21: .................................................................. (1) With the entry into force of the law, the resources centers to support the integrated training and training of children and students with special educational needs by order of the Minister of Education and Science shall be transformed into regional centres to support the process of inclusive education under art. 50, para. 3 for the implementation of the activities under art. 50, para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 5. (2) By the order under para. 1 is defined as the activity under art. 50, the headquarters and the management address of the relevant unit. (3) The working relationships of the employees from the transformed centres under para. 1 shall be settled according to art. 123 of the Labor Code. (4) The Minister of Education and Science shall, within three months of the entry into force of this Act, issue rules on the structure and operation of regional centres to support the process of inclusive education.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u178	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs for dropping § 18. Vote 87 MPs: 9 against 66 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 21 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The bodies of state within the meaning of art. 33a of the repealed Law on People's Education, other than those referred to in paragraph 18, para. 1, t. 2 which do not carry out activities under art. 49 or 50 are closed by order of the Minister of Education and Science within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. (2) The archive of the units under para. 1 is accepted by the Ministry of Education and Science. The Commission shall support the importer's test for § 20, which shall become § 23. According to § 21, a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: ? § 21, para. 1 is amended as follows: The students, who during the academic year 2017-2018, the academic year 2018-2019, the academic year 2019-2020 and the academic year 2020-2021 enter I, in V and in VIII or IX class, are trained according to school curriculums and curricula established under the terms and conditions of this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 24. Madam President, honourable Members! I will edit § 21, which becomes § 24 on the report of the Commission, in para. 1, which I suggest sounds like this: .................................................................. (1) Students who, during the academic year 2016-2017, enter the 1st and 5th grade, students who during the academic year 2017-2018, the academic year 2018-2019 and the academic year 2019-2020 enter the 1st, the 5th and the 7th grade, as well as students who during the academic year 2020-2021 are trained in the VIII grade, according to school plans and curricula established under the terms of this law. Colleagues, we propose from the next school year that the Law should enter into force for students who will then enter the 1st and 5th grade respectively. That is, we are giving up the opportunity and eighth graders to take advantage of the new Law for the reason that the current seventh graders are already in the training process, the school year has started and there is no way for them to make such changes anymore. Given the progress of examining the bill, we need this change that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u180	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote § 22 and § 20 by importer, which shall become § 23. These are two paragraphs that are supported and there are no proposals on them. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. According to § 21, there is a proposal by Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support him. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 84 MPs: 6 against 66 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. By Commission, the text of the importer for § 21 is fully supported, but in plenary Mrs Damyanova made a proposal for amendments to § 21, para. 1 which receives the numbering of § 24, para. 1. We are voting on Mrs. Damyanova's proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the full version of § 21 by importer, which shall become § 24 by the new version of his first paragraph which has just been adopted. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u181	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) A person who has successfully completed the last class of school training before the entry into force of the law but has failed or has failed to pass the relevant examinations provided for the acquisition of secondary education or of secondary vocational education after the entry into force of this law acquires secondary education after the successful passing of state maturity examinations and/or state examinations for the acquisition of professional qualifications. (2) The number and the educational subjects to which the state age examinations under para. 1 shall be determined by legal acts acting at the time of the acquisition of the right to take the relevant examinations. (3) Person under para. 1 which, before the entry into force of the law, has successfully completed the last class of school training, but has failed to pass the relevant professional qualification examinations provided for the acquisition of secondary education, after the entry into force of this law acquires secondary education after the successful passing of the state exam under art. 134, para. 3 and until the state maturity exams under this law are held under art. 24, para. 3 of the repealed Law on People's Education. (4) Successful examinations necessary for the acquisition of secondary education or secondary vocational education shall be recognised, regardless of the type of examination and the educational content on which they are made, and the person shall make state maturity examinations, respectively state examinations for the acquisition of qualification by profession, in other educational subjects, respectively, for the same profession, on the educational content envisaged for the study at the time of attendance as general education training, respectively professional training. (5) If the study subjects to which examination under para. 1 shall not correspond to the subjects referred to in Article 1. 134, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 135, para. Art. 1, respectively 24, para. 3 of the repealed Law on People's Education. Until the state age examinations under this law are carried out, the subject of which the person will take a state mature examination shall be determined under the conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down by the state educational standard for the assessment of the results of the students' training. (6) If the person has been trained to acquire a qualification by profession which is not included in the list of professions for vocational education and training, state examinations under para. 3 shall be carried out for a profession determined under the conditions and by the order of para. 5. (7) State age examinations shall be organised and carried out under the conditions and in accordance with the additional state maturity examinations, respectively under art. 24, para. 4 of the repealed Law on the Education of the People's Republic until the state exams under this law are carried out, and the state examinations for the acquisition of qualification by profession under the conditions and under the order of art. 134, para. 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 25 shall apply accordingly to a person who, before the entry into force of the law, started his studies in the last high school class but completed it successfully after the entry into force of the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says that the Bible is true. " (1) A person who, at the entry into force of the law, holds the post of a pedagogical specialist shall retain his employment relationship if he has had the right to hold the relevant position at the time of the relationship. (2) The person found at the entry into force of the law of the office of assistant director of............................................................................................ (3) The person caught up in the entry into force of the law of the position of a junior teacher and a junior educator shall be referred respectively to the position of a teacher. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... (1) A person who, prior to the entry into force of the law, has acquired a document for a successfully completed course for literacy or course for the absorption of the educational content of subjects of secondary stage classes organized by a school in the system of folk education under national and international projects and programmes shall enjoy the rights of a person who has received a document under art. 168, para. 1, t. Three and four. (2) Person under para. 1 which, prior to the entry into force of this law, has acquired a document for a successfully completed course for the acquisition of the educational content of subjects provided for in the 7th grade, organized by a school in the system of public education, enjoys the rights of a person who received a document under art. 168, para. 1, t. 5. Paragraph 27? a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30. Proposal by the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Within 1 month of the entry into force of the law, the relevant authorities shall issue or adopt the regulations laid down in this law, except for the acts adopting the state educational standards under art. 22, para. 2, p. 3, 4 and 13............................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 32. Paragraph 29 "A proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In the Labour Code (prom., SG...): 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 230, para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall be replaced by the second sentence of the words 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'; (b) in para. 4 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's' and "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 330, para. 2 is created t. 10: ..10. a pedagogical specialist within the meaning of the Pre-school and School Education Act has been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u182	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 33 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u183	Under § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: In § 30 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, in relation to the change in art. 33 of the Religions Act the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "At the request of "said" the words "the Bulgarian Orthodox Church" and "the Orthodox Church" are added. 2. Al. 2 to acquire the following version: Al. 2. Education obtained in spiritual schools is equivalent to education obtained in accordance with the Preschool and School Education Act. 3. Al. 3 to acquire the following version: Al. 3. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the registered religions can open schools under the terms and conditions laid down in the Law on pre-school and school education for private schools. 4. Point 3 shall be removed and the previous version of para 3 shall be maintained. 4. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission does not support the proposal. It is identical with that of the MP Iskren Veselinov. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u184	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs identical to Mr. Stanilov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 9 against 23, abstention 45. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 30 by importer, which shall become § 34. Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u185	Proposal of the National Representative Krasimira Anastasova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. The Law on Vocational Education and Training makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 4 in the text before t. 1 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'; (b) in para. 5 the word "self-replaced" is replaced by "informally." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 3 the word "self-replaced" is replaced by "informally." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title and in para. 1 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'; (b) in para. 2 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'; (c) in para. 5 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 1 sentence, second, the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1 the word "self-replaced' is replaced by "informally'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 1, t. 7 the words "supplier' are replaced by "supplier's'. 7. In § 1a of the Additional Provisions: (a) c. 4 the word "self-replaced' is replaced by "informally'; (b) c. 8 the word "Self" is replaced by "Informally."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u186	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 35 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u187	Under § 31, there is a proposal from Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: "1." paragraph 31 is deleted; 2. In paragraph 31 t. 1 et c. 3 in are deleted. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u188	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part. Vote 80 MPs: 13 against 56, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 36 on the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u189	Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Polina Karastoyanova. The Commission does not support the proposal in § 32, t. 2 to be amended as follows: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraphs 1 and 2 are repealed; (b) in para. 3 after the words "sport" is added, including chess. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 32, paragraph 32 is replaced by the following: 8 t. 6 is deleted; In § 32, para. 8, p. 7 the words "the support for personal development" shall be replaced by the words "the out-of-school centres." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u190	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u191	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor for speaking because I cannot understand what reasons the Commission has rejected the proposal of colleague Polina Karastoyanova, since we want our children to develop, their mental abilities to be much better and wider, which happens after the exercise of this great multi-century game, such as chess. And what's going to be so complicated? [[GERB lines]] if the chess is added?! Colleagues, we've done research and it turns out that there are no bad spots for football, volleyball playgrounds, basketball, tennis court and whatnot, but it turns out that rooms where students play chess, have heated rooms with good lighting, under health conditions, are missing. And I ask: who will now come out of this Commission to express its motives for rejecting this proposal?! I'd be very interested to hear what these motives are. Therefore, I ask you, colleagues, to support the proposal of colleague Polina Karastoyanova, because it is a good proposal and enables our children to really develop and create another world chess champion, which we have all enjoyed. I hope that this time, reason will prevail and we will support this sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u192	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Ms. Polina Karastoyanova's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 81 MPs: 33, against 12, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u193	Thank you, Madam President. I would like a re-vote for the simple reason that many of my colleagues were obviously unable to navigate in time in support of the proposal made. If they really played chess more often, they'd vote right. I ask for a re-vote and support of this proposal. It takes a little effort.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u194	It's a re-vote. Vote 82 MPs: 35 against 5, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 10, against 52, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 32, which becomes § 37 on the Commission report. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u195	Proposal of the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In the Family Aid Act for Children (Obn., SG...) in art. 7 is created. 11: In cases where a compulsory pre-school child does not regularly attend a pre-school education group or a student does not attend a regular school including additional training during the summer vacation organised under art. 124, para. 2 of the Law on preschool and school education, aid under para. 1 and 2 shall be provided in the form of additional support for personal development or additional educational services in kindergarten or school. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 33, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In the Tourism Act (Obn. DV, No. ...), in art. 79 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 4 in the sentence first, the words "the People's Education" shall be replaced by "the pre-school and school education," the words "the kindergarten director," school or service unit" within the meaning of the People's Education Act shall be replaced by "the institution director within the meaning of the Pre-school and School Education Act" and in a sentence second, the words "the relevant regional education inspectorate" shall be replaced by "the regional education management concerned"; 2. In para. 5 the words "Children's Gardens, Schools or Service Schools" in the system of folk education shall be replaced by the institution concerned within the meaning of the Preschool and School Education Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u196	Come in, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u197	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, regarding the adoption of the Family Aid Act for Children, while we were working in the Committee on Second Reading, we have an editorial proposal: Paragraph 38 to change like this: ....................... 38........................................................... In the Family Aid Act for Children (Obn., SG No. ...) in art. 7 new paras are created. 17 and para. 18: In the case of non-compliance with the conditions laid down in para. 1, t. 2 et c. The 3 months aid under para. 1 was terminated or suspended before the expiry of the period for which it was granted or its size was reduced under the conditions of para. 14 or 15, the school or kindergarten concerned shall be provided with means of carrying out general and/or additional support for personal development under the terms and conditions of the Pre-school and School Education Act. (18) The funds under para. 17 shall be made available to the relevant school or kindergarten at the amount corresponding to the amount of aid corresponding to the amount of the reduction and shall be planned under the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u198	Replies to Mrs. Zaharieva's statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal for editorial additions in new paragraphs 17 and 18 to art. 7 in the Law on Family Aid for Children, which is imposed by the fact of changed texts during the work on this Law. I put to the vote the editorial supplement made by Mrs Zaharieva for new paragraphs 17 and 18. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of § 38 with its para. 11, the new paragraphs 17 and 18 that we adopted. [[Reference between the rapporteur Milena Damyanova and President Tsetska Tsacheva.]] Colleagues, the proposals Mrs. Zaharieva made: in the text of the report in art. 17 is created a new para. 11, but in the Law after our changes during this time, this paragraph 11 is not so, because there we have created far more paragraphs, and at the moment they are 16. We have edited paragraphs 17 and 18 so that, with the decision adopted on Mrs Zaharieva's proposal, we essentially have a whole new version of § 38. I put to the vote § 38 in the version of Mrs. Zaharieva's proposal. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 33 by importer, which becomes § 39 in the version of the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u199	Under § 34, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 41. Under § 36, there is a proposal from the Member of the National Assembly Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 42. Under § 37, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 43. Under § 38, there is a proposal from the Member of the National Assembly Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 38, item 38. 1 the words "the preschool and school education' shall be replaced by the words "the education of the people's education'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u200	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the deletion of § 34 by importer, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 10, against 62, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the deletion of § 36 by importer, not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 11 against 63, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Zablyanov's next proposal is to delete § 37, which is not supported by the Commission. We vote. Vote 88 MPs: 8 against 70, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Mr. Zablyanov's proposal to amend § 38 by importer, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 9 against 67, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote paragraphs 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u201	Under § 39, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 39, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Employment Promotion Act (prom. DV, No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 t. 2 the word "self-replaced" is replaced by "informally." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. The first sentence shall be the words referred to in Article 3. 26 of the Law on Education is replaced by the Law on pre-school and school education and, in a sentence, second, the words by an order of the............................................................................................. are replaced by................................................................................................................................................ 3. In § 1, t. 18 of the additional provisions are replaced by the pre-school and school education system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u202	Statements? Maybe in the form of information. [[Heckling]] It's a concept in the Law. There are no speakers. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the deletion of § 39 which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 10, against 65, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 45 on the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: 69, against 3, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u203	Under § 40, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly in § 40, p. 1 at the end of the sentence, the words "the preschool and school education' shall be replaced by the words "the public education'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u204	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Please accept my proposal, which is discussed with both the Commission and the teaching industry and the transport industry. Honourable Members, this is a proposal that I think is precisely in the spirit of the Law to keep children in school for a long time so that it can drop this percentage, which is for non-graduate secondary education. Because, as we heard a few days ago, data was released that after primary education more than 20% of children did not continue in secondary school. My proposal is in § 40, which becomes § 46. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the following amendments shall be made: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 151, para. 2 the word "supplier" to be replaced by the first high school stage at the average. This means that now everyone who wants a driving licence to take driving courses, regardless of what category, because so far for the B.B. category the requirement is primary education, but you know [[Applause from GERB]] That we're lowering the education from VIII to the 7th grade. From now on to require a completed first high school course, which is 16 years or X grade. My second proposal is the current text of the item. 1 to become a letter. Thank you, that's all for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u206	Could you give me what you've read for now? [[The National Representative Stanislav Ivanov gives the proposal to the President. Laughter and glad tidings.]] Replies to Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's statement? I won't. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Now we'll see what it is, Mr. Stoilov. There is a statement by Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I am making this statement to state the support of the proposals made by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov and to add that they will first be tried to reduce road accidents and minimize and limit corruption by issuing driver's licenses to many people who we know are illiterate, but somehow managed to obtain such a document. We're witnessing the outrage that happens on the roads. Unfortunately, they are very often paid with the cost of human life, many disabled and the most pathetic in recent years, with dozens of children's lives taken away. We will support this proposal by colleague Ivanov. I hope everyone will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u208	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the new version of § 40 by importer, i.e. 1, which goes into two letters. The letter is the addition that makes the colleague, and the letter "b" becomes the existing text of the article. 1 which is an importer. We vote on Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal. [[Reply from the hall: "Please read. "]] Cancel the vote. I read it carefully for those who follow the report: In § 40, by importer which becomes § 46 of the Commission's report. 1. This is the editorial supplement. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 2 the word "supplier" is replaced by the first high school stage of the average and the previous text of the article. 1 to become a letter to the letter "b" to the letter "b." 1 of paragraph § 46. We vote on Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from the House.]] There's an unsupported proposal. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs for amendment of § 40. The Commission does not support it. Vote 84 MPs: 15 against 65 abstentions 4. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the full version of § 46 in line with the editorial supplement which we have just adopted on the proposal of Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u209	Paragraph 41? a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission is not in favour of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u210	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 9 against 69, abstention 6. We are voting § 47 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 78, against 4, abstention 1. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] Please group up. Here you are, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev. [[Screams from the hall: "There is another proposal. "]] Okay. Come in for a re-vote! Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u211	Madam President, I could not vote, for which I apologize to the National Assembly. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Looks like the consoles on that line are making some kind of a problem. Have the Quaestors take a look if they can. Let's do a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u212	What text did you fail to vote on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u213	The last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u214	Revoting, coworkers! They voted 83 MPs: 76 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u215	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we want a break 30 minutes. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u216	Colleagues, you're officially 20 seconds ahead of schedule. Okay, 15 minutes off, and then we'll extend the session to today. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]] It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u217	Dear Madam President, we are entering yesterday's hypothesis that people who are not in the management should ask for a break. Under the Rules of Procedure, it must be authorized by... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u218	Thanks, guys. I've announced a 15-minute break. We start at exactly 3:15. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u219	Guys, break time's up. There is no quorum visible in the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Damyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u220	Under § 42, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: In § 42 t. 1 at the end of the sentence, the words "the pre-school and school education and the Vocational Education and Training Act" are replaced by the words "the People's Education Act and the Vocational Education Act." In § 42 t. 2 is deleted; In § 42 t. 2a and 2b the words "The Ministry for People's Education" are replaced by "The Ministry for Pre-school and School Education" and are deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 48. Under § 43, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 43, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 et c. 2 are replaced by the following: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 49. Under § 44, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 1 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 50. Under § 45, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 51. Under § 46, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 4 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 52. Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 53. Under § 48, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: In § 48, the words "the pre-school and school education' are replaced by the words "the education of the people's education'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u221	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs to amend § 42, which the Commission does not support. Vote 77 MPs: 6 against 66, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for changes in § 43, deletion of item. 1 et c. 2 which the Commission does not support. Vote 78 MPs: 9 against 62, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the deletion of § 44, 45, 46 and 47 by importer. The Commission does not support these proposals. Vote 79 MPs: 7 against 64, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the proposal of Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs to amend § 48... the Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 84 MPs: 7 against 67, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Articles 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53 and 54 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 78, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u222	Under § 49, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 49, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2a is deleted; In § 49 t. 2c and c. 3 words in the Centres for Personal Development Support shall be replaced by the words in the out-of-school centres. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 49, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In the Child Protection Act (Obn. DV. No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5b, para. 1 the words the Educational Inspectorates shall be replaced by the Educational Managements. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 3: (aa) the words "Schools, kindergartens and service units" in the system of folk education are replaced by "Schools and kindergartens" in the system of preschool and school education. (bb) in point (b) the words "the Educational Inspectorates' shall be replaced by "the Educational Managements'; (b) c. 8 point (b) is replaced by the words "service units" in the support centres for personal development. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a, para. 1, t. 14 the words "service units' shall be replaced by "personal development support'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20a, para. 1 the words "the education inspectorate" shall be replaced by "the management of education."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u223	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Zablyanov's proposal and a group not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 8 against 68, 14 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 55 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 78, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u224	According to § 50, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: paragraph 50 is deleted; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 57. Under § 52, there is a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The provisions of Chapter Six, Sections II and III and Chapter Seven shall apply in order to ensure the training with textbooks and study kits of students who enter the school year 2016-2017 in I, V and VIII of the class, and the period for the submission of the drafts of textbooks and study sets shall be 7 months. (2) The activities in kindergartens, schools and service units of the public education system during the school year 2015 - 2016 shall be organised, carried out and controlled in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u225	Statements? We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u226	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in relation to the version that we made in § 24 of the Commission report, an amendment is also required here in § 58, namely in para. 1: In order to ensure the training with textbooks and study kits of the students who enter the 1st and 5th grade during the school year, the provisions of Chapter 6th, Section II and III of Chapter 7 shall apply and the time limit for the submission of the draft textbooks and study sets shall be 7 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u227	- What's the line? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Zablyanov's proposal and a group for the deletion of § 50 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 89 MPs: 9 against 74, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on block paragraphs 56 and 57. Vote 82 MPs: 78 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the amendment of para. 1 in § 58, made by Mrs. Milena Damyanova, which is in line with amendments today from plenary § 24 for dropping out in the text of the 7th class. We are voting on Mrs. Damyanova's proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We vote the entire version of § 58 together with para. 2 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u228	A proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. The following shall be added to the table below: In the Transitional and Final Provisions, new paragraphs are created, 53 and 54 respectively: (a) § 53. For the implementation of the provision of art. 51, para. 1 The Council of Ministers, together with the municipalities, is developing and financing a National program for the construction of kindergartens in settlements where there are none or their capacity is available.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u229	Statements? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I expected one of the importers of this proposal to justify it, but because there was no such desire, and I consider the proposal important, so I believe that in the part which is not withdrawn from the importers and which is really not for the provisions of the Law, it deserves to be supported. It is envisaged that the state provides opportunities for all children to be covered by pre-school and school education. In this case, the Council of Ministers is assigned together with the municipalities to develop and finance a national program for the construction of kindergartens in settlements where there are none or their capacity is insufficient.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u231	Building, not providing places to build!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u232	No, the point is that there are a number of settlements and neighborhoods where this is necessary. Whether or not with this editing is a second question. It is true that such a programme can be adopted by the Council of Ministers without the requirement in the Law, but we know that if there is no parliamentary and public pressure, many of these issues are closed down and they cannot get the necessary solution in a timely manner. I therefore think that this provision should be supported. I also think that importers who have done with such passion, as for mother tongue and other topics, should also stand up for these social proposals that are contained in the Law and which I think no one will essentially dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u233	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u234	Madam President! Indeed, we must hear some explanation from the Commission as to why this point has been rejected from the proposal of Mr Mestan and a group of MPs. We are in the section on Transitional and Final Provisions, where it is only natural to provide similar obligations to the executive. It is clear to everyone that the problem with kindergartens is not only a problem in small towns. This is a problem for both Sofia and the big cities. This text, as foreseen, will give a real impetus to solving this extremely important social issue. So I ask the representatives of the Commission to explain why they do not accept this proposal. [[GERB lines.]] I asked... I asked for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u235	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs in the part which is not supported by the Commission. The one who read Mrs. Damyanova. They voted 94 MPs: 18, against 27, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u236	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 59. Paragraph 54. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 1 is amended as follows: 1. Chapter 6a, Sections I, II and III with Articles 71 to 95, which shall enter into force from the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union by the end of the academic year 2019 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 54, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ The law shall enter into force from 1 August 2016, with the exception of: Art. 1. 22, para. 2, p. 3, 4 and 13 and para. 3, Chapter Six, Sections I, II and III and § 58, which shall enter into force one month after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union; 2. Chapter 7, which shall enter into force two months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 3. Chapter 16 which shall enter into force on 1 January In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u237	Give her the last offer, because it is in connection with the moment of entry into force of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u238	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: ........... 55....................................................................... The law shall enter into force in the first school year following the adoption of state educational requirements. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u239	Statements, coworkers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in § 60 I propose to create a t. 4. "4." § 46, t. Point 1 (a) of Article 2 (1) which shall enter into force from 1 August 2022. Dear colleagues, we are doing this because children who are now in the 7th grade or those who have just graduated from the 7th grade under the new basic education law should not be deprived of this right. I think it is correct for the children who are now completing their primary education that will apply to them, as soon as they will continue with the first high school course. Thank you. [[Relations from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u241	Speaking, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u242	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to justify the last proposal of my colleague Jablyanov and a group of MPs, namely the Law to enter into force in the first school year after the adoption of state educational standards. A huge amount of lasting public relations in this Law is transferred to these particular standards or requirements. The idea is to actually know what these requirements are, not to adopt an absolutely hollow law. As in the Law on Legislative Acts, I think it was art. 39, it is said that the transfer of such relations takes place exceptionally, and as we see in this law, they are practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u243	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote § 53 by importer, supported by the Commission, which shall become § 59. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal by Mr. Zablyanov and a group of MPs to amend § 54 by importer. Vote 88 MPs: 17 against 62, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Zablyanov's proposal and a group of MPs for a new § 55 governing the moment of entry into force of this law, the Commission does not support it. They voted 83 MPs: 13 against 57 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's editorial supplement to create a new item. 4 in § 60, in the version of the Commission on its report, as he proposed it, we are voting on the proposal for an addition. 90 MPs voted: 77 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u244	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u245	On this text? Why didn't you make a statement? Now it is too late to comply with your opinion, we expected you to speak on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u246	Madam President, I voted negatively on this text, after supporting Mr. Ivanov's previous proposal, because his previous proposal was reasonable, it was normal and it was a proposal aimed at saving lives for people and children and to raising those knowledge, skills and education of people who are going to receive books at the moment, you know that cars are almost weapons and should be consistent with those about cars. What he has now proposed, which I voted against, makes this whole proposal meaningless. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development Mr. Ivanov, you currently have some dependence on a parliamentary group with voters just below the average educational level and are now serving their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u247	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u248	Mr. Ermenkov, to offend parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u249	I said selectors, look at the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u250	I'll run a background check on the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u251	I didn't insult any of the parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u252	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u253	There was no way I couldn't get a personal explanation, Madam President, after the insult that sounded out of that tribune. My fellow Members, I say again, you can't backtrackly oblige! You cannot back-up children who have now graduated or graduated this year. That's not gonna happen. This is why it is done for children who have completed their primary education and will continue to a first high school course. We can't impose by law and reverse the date to return. What? Give all those who currently have a category of basic education, let's get them to study! This is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u254	I shall put to the vote § 60 in its version of the Commission report, in accordance with the new item. 4 which we adopted today as a decision. We vote § 60. They voted 86 MPs: 75 against 9, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted and the new Law on pre-school and school education, as expected by three national meetings, has also been passed. Happy birthday to us! [[People from GERB become, violent applause and cheering]] REPORTER MILENA DAMYANOVA: Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! In the form of a procedure, perhaps only one sentence. I would like, on behalf of the whole Commission, to thank all my fellow Members in the parliamentary groups. Indeed, Bulgaria since 1991, thanks to our joint efforts, colleagues, has a new Law that has been expected for a long time. We also thank all the teachers and all the people who participated in the development of the Bill. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u255	Minister Tanev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's not just the cannery that's wrong. Unfortunately for him, the educational system is not a recipe for cooking lentils, which has been cooked in the same way for centuries. Sometimes the one who makes innovation is wrong! He couldn't possibly know the future! The question, however, is how it deals with the uncertainty of the future, whether it is just risks or opportunities. The Ministry fully supported this Law from the beginning and participated in it for a very important reason: The 1991 Law, as everyone knows, was very outdated. It was done before the Internet, before the opening of borders, was for another time. Mostly he had a different philosophy. He was going forward with a monolithic strainer, with a grille of the same measures to the different children, and we differ even by the prints of our fingers and the way we think. Children are talented, however, to a different extent. There are different parts of Bulgaria, there are different schools, different teachers. This Law begins in the opposite way not by a single, to say it by a test test, the test is such that it catches, to obtain a dispersal final, qualities of a different format or lack of qualities, but vice versa, it begins with liberalisation, with adaptation, because the student stands absolutely at the very beginning, in the very essence of this Law. We begin with the freedom of the teacher, the freedom of the parent, the freedom of the student to finally get a single result. And this result is the quality I hope! There'll be maybe two or three years to settle, there'll be some repairs, that's inevitably we have to be prepared from now on. What has been done today, however, is of a historical nature! For this reason: a deep bow to the authors of the Law! [[Applause from GERB.]] There are many authors, but we know the names of some of them. I don't want to mention them now, but let's honor them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u257	We won't have time until the end of the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u258	In addition, I would like to congratulate, as Mrs. Damyanova did, all experts, all who participated in the Ministry! Mrs. Castreva, you're here. I would also like to congratulate, of course, the teachers and social partners, not to forget them, who stood by us all the time, criticized us and agreed with us. I hope this is a good thing, and hopefully it'll settle down properly. I will say it again in Latin: "Bene vertat" (quod agis)! "Which means: "It is better to go what we have started, regardless of the fact that we have opened our hearts to one for the Bulgarian student and the opportunities before him! Bless you! [[(Loud applause from GERB. "Shouting" (Bravo!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u259	Minister Tanev, thank you for your nice words of gratitude. Colleagues, let's hear the reports on: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. The debate tomorrow. There are three reports. I'm asking for a summary of the reports. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u260	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to put it in a summary: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing Public Procurement Act No 502-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers The sitting of the Legal Commission was held on 17 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, his team, including representatives of the Public Procurement Agency. The bill was presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The submitted bill proposes an amendment to the Public Procurement Act in order to resolve urgent issues related to its implementation. The bill proposes changes in order to stop the practice of unscrupulous persons to benefit from the preferential regime provided for in art. 16d of the Law, which stimulates the participation in public procurement of specialized enterprises and cooperatives of people with disabilities. The prohibition on contracting entities to lay down requirements for the economic and financial situation, qualification and technical capabilities in respect of specialised undertakings and cooperatives with persons with disabilities is repealed. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hamid Hamid, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Chavdar Georgiev, Desislava Atanasova. In the course of the discussion Mr Hamid noted that the proposed amendment of art. 1 in respect of the statement of foreign funds to be refined so as to avoid any problems in terms of contracts with international organisations and donor countries which have stricter rules for spending funds. Mr. Georgiev asked why the Agency's transition to the Ministry of Finance did not take place at the beginning of the new calendar year in order to change budget, states and so on. Mr. Donchev replied that a decision has already been made by the Council of Ministers and the aim is to implement the Public Procurement Strategy. Ms. Atanasova raised the question as to whether the admissions of 2014 Rules on the organisation of the work and performance of the functions of the central public procurement body have already been signed and whether any office has already applied them. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for the Public Procurement Act, No 502-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u261	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Is there a member of this Commission to present this report to us? In summary, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u262	Thank you, Madam President. On 24 June 2015, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 502-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev. All positive and negative things were taken into account in an in-depth debate, including the proposals of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. As a final result after the discussion was concluded and the voting was held, the Commission decided by 5 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition and 3 votes in abstention to propose to the National Assembly to support this bill in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u263	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mrs. Stoyanova, Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, a summary in the way Mr. Bajraktarov presented the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u264	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 502-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015. At its meeting on 10 September 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Tomislav Donchev. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:................................. 15 MPs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 502-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, we fit in so well in time, and if I hadn't announced that the vote would be tomorrow, we could have voted on it. On behalf of the applicant, there is no representative to present the bill to us. Debates are open. Is there a Member of the National Assembly willing to take part in the deliberations? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u266	Madam President, honourable Members! Personally, the fact that we need to discuss a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Procurement Act is perplexed in me, provided that there is already a Draft for an entirely new Public Procurement Act. What we're going to do now, in my opinion, at least I hope to be lying to myself, is a waste of parliamentary time. I think there is still a possibility that the importers of this Bill will withdraw it so that we can deal with the Law, which is important, in its overall form and what it conceptually changes. Otherwise, we will now accept amendments and additions if we accept them, which exactly two months from now will be over, because we will have a new Law. It's just my suggestion. I don't know if it can be done. I believe that in the way we proceed, we will be wasting our time without any benefit from this and any real result on public relations relating to this society-sensitive issue, public procurement, control, honesty, integrity and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u267	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. A line? First line, Mr. Slavov, second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u268	I suggest we extend the time until the bill is passed!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, there is indeed a second submitted bill, and it is the Draft Public Procurement Act, which partially replicates what we are discussing today, and we are currently discussing the so-called special or reserved public procurement for people with disabilities. In order to understand why the problem is so pressing and we must vote on it now, as the basic bill is practically still on the committees and is delayed at first reading in the plenary, it will most likely go for after the elections, I will give you the following simple example, which I received on my question to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev and concerning these so-called companies of people with disabilities. For about four years, from 2010 until 2014, those registered were somewhere around a hundred, and in just seven months, when this provision was introduced, which gives certain privileges, which we are currently correcting, are registered around 170 companies. Obviously, there is a loophole in the Act in force which allows, since there are no explicit criteria for the companies in question for disabled persons not to impose any other companies in which disabled persons are no longer involved, public procurements which they earn in a relaxed order the order for the so-called "saved or special public procurements for disabled persons' enterprises' does not provide for the usual technical, financial requirements for companies, staff and so on. I mean, there's a loophole that seems to be being abused a lot. And instead of really using this order to benefit from people with disabilities who are willing to be active in the economy, to participate in business life, enjoys unscrupulous persons who register such companies. Then, by winning a public contract in this way, they use to assign it to a related company, where there are no people with disabilities and thus to master the order. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u270	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u271	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ermenkov! The colleague Petar Slavov gave serious explanations regarding the reasons for urgency to consider this bill, partial in relation to the current Law. It is relied on to enter as soon as possible the provisions that are set out in nine paragraphs. It is true that in the Legal Committee, the draft new Public Procurement Act was adopted at first reading. Its discussion in plenary is about to be discussed, hopefully we will be able to examine it in due course. The Council of Ministers' proposal is that we do not delay on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u272	A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u273	Dear President, dear Mr. Slavov, dear Mr. Kirilov! I could probably agree with everything you're saying, it's probably true, but the date the bill was submitted is June 1st of this year, and I think if it were so urgent, we would have already accepted it. Again, you're probably right, but we're still chasing the train at the last minute or just before the next train arrives, we're trying to get on the last car of the previous one. I am not very convinced that this urgency has been so pressing since, again, on 1 June, the Law of the Council of Ministers has been tabled, four months have passed, come on, one of them will be removed because we were on leave, but it does not explain to me what the other three have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-30.u274	Are there any other MPs willing to participate in the debate? [[Replyes: "The time is over! "]] Yeah, the minutes are up. We continue with the debate on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Public Procurement Act. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
