ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please take our seats and register. There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to yesterday's program, the first point we're starting with is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY CODE. They are: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014, Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 29 October 2014, Radan Kanev and a group of MPs on 26 February 2015, Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015, Velizar Enchev on 14 May 2015; the Council of Ministers on 26 May 2015, Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs on 28 May 2015. With the reports of the committees to which these drafts are allocated, we are about to meet, first starting with the Commission's reports on labour, social and demographic policy as the leading Commission. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 454-01-12, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 17 December 2014 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importer Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack." Importers propose to reduce the age and internship of the current scheme and to create an opportunity for persons who cannot retire due to lack of age and internship, to establish a required age of 62 years for both men and women and the existence of no less than 15 years of actual insurance service. It is proposed to establish a minimum amount of pension for internship and age of 500 BGN. from 1 January 2015, to be updated annually. The National Insurance Institute does not support the proposals in general and points out that the necessary additional funds to implement the change for 500 BGN. the minimum pension amount is 530 million. lv. monthly, or an increase of approximately 76 per cent of the annual pension expenditure. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results: there is no vote,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 454-01-12, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Madam President, before we move on to the other reports, allow me to make a procedural proposal regarding the draft amendments to the Code of Social Security in the Chamber to be invited by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Nikolay Nikolov and the Governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Biser Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Vote 136 MPs: 135, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u4	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending the Social Security Code, No 454-01-30, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 29 October 2014. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its meeting held on 17 December 2014 examined and discussed the Bill with importer Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. The proposal is for the extension of § 4 of the Social Security Code until the end of 2017 in order to find a sustainable solution for the retirement of workers under the conditions of first and second categories of work and receive a pension from state social security under light conditions. According to importers, for 2015 funds of 21 million are needed. lv.; 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, and for 2017 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and After the end of the discussion and voting with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly not to support a bill amending the Social Security Code with importer Maya Manolova in the first vote. Next up is ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-40, submitted by Radan Kanev and a group of MPs on 26 February 2014. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting examined the submitted bill. The bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ivan Ivanov from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. With this bill, importers aim to eliminate social injustice relating to a group of persons who acquired the right to a pension for internship and age in 2014. In fact, the problem arises with the repealed norm of art. 94, para. 2 of the CSR, according to which internship and age pensions of persons working in employment and service were granted from the date of their termination if the application with the necessary documents was submitted within 6 months of that date. As a result of the cancellation cited, with effect from 1 January 2015, internship and age pensions shall be granted in accordance with the general rule of art. 94, para. 1 of the Social Security Code from the date of acquisition of the right to retirement and age pension or from the date of application submitted under art. 1 of the Regulation on pensions and internship, depending on whether the 6-month deadline for its submission has been met. After the discussion and the vote held with results: 16 votes for...... without votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Next: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-86, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting on 3 June 2015 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. The importers offer an addition to the Social Security Code with a new art. 69b to introduce an age limit of 60 years and 15 years of insurance service in maritime employment for the retirement of seafarers. The basis for the proposal, according to the importers, is contained in the provisions of Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation of 1946, which is in force for Bulgaria of 10 October 1962. Importers consider that the provisions in force for the retirement of seafarers under § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code requiring the existence of a sum of age and internship equal to 100 is contrary to art. 4, para. 1 of the Convention. According to them, the proposed Bill will introduce the requirements of the Convention into national law. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Offers the National Assembly not to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-86, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. Next: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-91, submitted by Velizar Enchev on 14 May 2015. The agenda for the regular meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy on 3 June 2015 included the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-91, submitted by Velizar Enchev on 14 May 2015. In a written application to the Commission, the importer shall state his arguments refusing to submit the bill he submitted at the meeting. Due to the inability to implement the procedure within the meaning of art. 31, para. 3th sentence first of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The draft was not examined by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and therefore there is no report on it. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 502-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 May 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 3 June 2015, examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin "Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy," who explained that the proposed Law establishes a legal framework for the advanced pension model in Bulgaria. It aims to stabilise the pension system and some temporary solutions that have been in place until now become permanent for the purpose of predictability and security for people. Minister Kalfin stressed that more than 50 proposals on the pension model have been received in the process of developing the Bill and 20 of them have been reflected in it. The bill is discussed and supported by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The changes provide for an increase in revenue in the insurance system and a reduction in its dependence on the state budget, with an increase in the amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund from 1 January 2017 by 1 per cent and also by 1 per cent from 1 January 2018. The proposed cancellation of the envisaged increase in the social contribution for the universal pension fund from 5 to 7 per cent from 1 January 2017. To address the challenges in the economy in the medium and long term caused by the negative effect of demographic trends in the country, changes are proposed to stabilise the social insurance system by increasing the retirement age and a longer stay on the labour market. A differentiated gradual increase in age and internship is proposed for those who worked in the third category of work until 65 years of age for women and men in 2037 and an automatic mechanism for increasing retirement age will be introduced to take into account life expectancy. It is proposed differentiated for women and men to increase the required retirement insurance for workers under the conditions of the third category of work until they reach 37 years for women and 40 years for men in 2037. For persons who do not have the required insurance service, which is not less than 15 years of actual service, there is also a smooth increase in the retirement age to be reached in 2029. 67 years. All these changes are planned to result in a gradual reduction in pension costs by about 0.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2037. A new provision is proposed to settle the possibility of granting an internship pension and a reduced amount of age to persons with due internship and underage of up to 12 months is proposed. The pension shall be reduced by 0.4% for each shortage of a month and shall be life-saving. The bill offers a lasting settlement of the right to pension for teachers and preserves the Teacher's Pension Fund. Due to the significant lag in terms of the age required for retirement of workers under the conditions of first and second categories of work, it is proposed to introduce a final age for retirement of the persons under art. 69 of the Social Security Code implementing the recommendations of the Council of the European Union to limit early retirement opportunities. The proposal is to introduce a requirement for a minimum retirement age for all groups of persons, as the pensions for internship and age of the state social security are granted in the event of a social security risk and provided that the person has the insurance service defined by the Law. As of 1 January 2016, the retirement age of those working in the sector is proposed, while the age should be 52 years 10 months. It is offered a smooth increase in age until the age of 55 is reached for the persons under art. 69, para. 1, 2, 3 and 6. The bill proposes to waive the requirement of termination of insurance in the context of the granting of a pension for internship and age and in respect of the servicemen, civil servants under the Act on the Ministry of Interior and other persons under art. 69 of the Social Security Code. An opportunity shall be created for persons who have acquired in the past the required insurance service under art. 69 of the Social Security Code, to retire under the new conditions, although they no longer work in military agencies. As regards workers under the conditions of the first and second categories of work who are not entitled to a professional pension from a professional pension fund but meet the conditions of the proposed new provision, art. 69b of the Social Security Code provides for an opportunity to receive a pension from state social security. The target group is mostly from people with categorical internship before 2000. The Law proposes a gradual increase in the burden of one year of insurance in the calculation of the amount of all pensions, newly granted and already granted, with a minimum of the size of the Swiss rule until 1.5 per cent. It is proposed that the so-called "tavan' of pensions should be dropped from 1 January 2019. Changes are proposed to the State Fund Act for guaranteeing the sustainability of the state pension system, according to which the accumulated funds on the individual accounts of the persons who chose insurance only in the funds of state social security are transferred to the Fund. After the end of the discussion and voting with results:....... 8 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code submitted by the Council of Ministers in the first vote. And the last one: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-104, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs At its regular meeting on 3 June 2015, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee examined the draft Law tabled by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. He was represented by the National Representative Georgi Gokov. The bill proposes: - since 2016 an increase in the contribution to the Fund "Pensions" by two percentage points, as well as an increase in the contribution to the Fund "Unemployment" from one to two per cent. Importers shall motivate the proposal with the chronic lack of funds in the budget of the State Social Security and the annual transfers from the Republican budget to cover the shortfall; - stopping the growth of age and internship required for the acquisition of pension rights and maintaining the achieved indicators in 2015; - creation of an opportunity for retirement according to the order of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Code of Social Security in the event of a shortage of 24 months cumulatively required age and internship, and the estimated number of persons who would benefit from that right shall be estimated to be around 5000 persons; - obtaining a life-saving reduced amount of early pension to be determined by the formula for a normal pension with a reduction for each failing month 0,4 per cent; - replacing the annual determination of the maximum insurance income in the State Social Security Budget Act with a maximum social security income of ten minimum salaries for the country; - a change in the amount of the pension by increasing the share of each year of insurance service from 1.1 to 1,2 from 1 January 2016; - persons who have acquired the right to an age pension and an internship but continue to work without being granted a pension to receive an additional 4% in one year of insurance service, 4.5% in two years and 5% in over three years and the corresponding proportional part of those percentages for the months of insurance service. After the end of the discussion and vote with results.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly not to support the bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importers Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u5	Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 502-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 May 2015. At a meeting held on 11 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 502-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 May 2015. The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The aim of such proposed amendments and additions to the Social Security Code is to establish a legal framework for the advanced pension model, to introduce short-term and long-term measures for the financial stability of the pension system and to improve the adequacy of pensions, to increase the income in the social security system and to limit the expenditure therein, to reduce the dependence of the pension system on the state budget. The amendments concern the following: - the envisaged increase in the social security contribution for the universal pension fund from 5 to 7 per cent from 1 January 2017 with a view to avoiding the increase in the total tax burden; - gradually increase and gradually equalize the standard retirement age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the CSR of women and men in 2037. At the age of 65. Initially, women's retirement age increased by 2 months each calendar year until 2029 and from 2030. For men, retirement age will also increase initially by 2 months in 2016 and 2017, and from 2018 will continue to grow by 1 month each calendar year until 2029. After reaching 65 years for men and women an automatic mechanism will be introduced to increase retirement age compared to changes in life expectancy; - smoothly increase the required insurance internship for retirement under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the CSR for workers under the conditions of a third category of work of 2 months per year until they reach 40 years for men and 37 years for women in 2027; - in the case of insufficient insurance service (in not less than 15 years of actual insurance service), the retirement age of men and women shall be increased smoothly until 67 years in 2029 and in 2016 and 2017 by 2 months and as of 2018 shall continue to increase by 1 month each calendar year according to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the CSR; - a new provision of art. 68a of the CSR, which allows for the granting of a retirement pension and a reduced age of persons who do not reach up to 12 months of age who have the required internship and their pension is reduced by 0.4 per cent for each month of underage.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the right to pension for teachers is permanently regulated and the conditions for their retirement are included in the basic texts of the Bill; - an age for retirement of persons working in the sector is introduced (persons under art. 69 of the CSR), with effect from 1 January 2016, which is 52 years and 10 months. Retirement age for this group of persons is equal to that laid down for workers under the first category of work. Its smooth rise by 2 months for each calendar year is envisaged until the age of 55 for the persons referred to in art. 69, para. 1, 2, 3 and 6 (military, civil servants under the Act on the Ministry of Interior and Others) and 45 years of age for the persons under art. 69, para. 4 and 7 (parachutists, divers and others). For those persons who, by 31 December 2015, have the necessary insurance internship to acquire a pension (27 years of general insurance service, of which two thirds of actual) are intended to be able to retire without regard to age until 31 December 2018; - an age for retirement of persons who worked as a ballerina, ballet dancer or dancer in cultural organizations is introduced; - propose dropping the requirement for termination of insurance in the context of the granting of a pension for internship and age and in respect of the servicemen, civil servants under the Act on the Ministry of Interior and other persons under art. 69 of the Social Security Code. This change aims at achieving a level playing field for all categories of insured persons; - an opportunity shall be created for persons who have acquired in the past the required insurance service under art. 69 of the Social Security Code, to retire under new conditions, although they no longer work in military agencies; - as regards workers under the conditions of the first and second categories of work who are not entitled to a professional pension from a preferential pension fund but meet the conditions of the proposed new provision (Art. 69b of the Social Security Code) provides for an opportunity to receive a pension from state social security. The target group is mainly from people with categorical internship before 2000, which is why they were not provided in occupational pension funds and those with mixed categorical internship before and after 2000. For this purpose it is required that persons have worked at least 10 years under the conditions of first category of work or 15 years under the conditions of second category of work, have a sum of retirement and age 94 for women and 100 for men, have reached an age which is gradually increased to 55 years for women and men working under the first category of work and 60 years respectively for workers under the second category of work; - the existing more favourable retirement regime for persons working under the conditions of art. No. 104, para. 3 of the CSR (underground workers), and they also provide for a smooth increase in the retirement age required; - it is proposed, with effect from 1 January 2019, a way of determining the amount of pensions by which the person's contribution to the insurance system will be more accurately taken into account during the entire insurance service. From the same date, the requirement to account for the income of the person from the contributions paid for the period of three years of choice before 1997 is removed; - it is proposed, with effect from 1 January 2017, to gradually increase the burden of one year of insurance internship in calculating the amount of all new and already granted pensions with a minimum of the size of the Swiss rule until 1.5 per cent. Upon reaching a burden of 1,5 per cent, the amounts of newly granted pensions will be 25 per cent higher than the burden of current legislation; - it is proposed that the so-called "tavan' of pensions be dropped from 1 January 2019; - preserves and improves the three-strength pension model. In this regard, the free choice of compulsory insurance for an additional pension in a universal pension fund or only for a lifelong pension in the state social security is governed; - There are proposed amendments to the State Fund Act to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system, according to which the accumulated funds on the individual accounts of the persons who have chosen insurance only in the funds of state social security are transferred to the fund. The reasons for the proposed bill shall contain the full reasons for its adoption, the objectives to be set, the financial and other means necessary for the implementation of the new arrangements and an analysis of compliance with European Union law. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The bill was supported by the Industrial Capital Association, Ministry of Finance, NOI, Bulgarian Industrial Association. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee did not support the proposed Draft. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 8 votes for the draft, 3 votes against the draft, and 6 votes abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed that the National Assembly should not support the first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code, No 502-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 May 2015. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-104, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 28 May 2015. At the meeting the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the proposals Draft, which was presented by the MP Georgi Turnovalyski. The bill proposes the following changes: - since 2016 an increase in the contribution to the Fund "Pensions" by two percentage points, as well as an increase in the contribution to the Fund "Unemployment" from one to two percent. The proposal is motivated by the chronic lack of funds in the budget of the State Social Security and the annual transfers from the Republican budget to cover the shortfall; - stopping the increase in age and internship required for the acquisition of pension rights and maintaining the achieved indicators in 2015; - creation of an opportunity for retirement according to the order of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Code of Social Security in the event of a shortage of 24 months cumulatively required age and internship, and the estimated number of persons who would benefit from that right shall be estimated to be around 5 000 persons; - obtaining a life-saving reduced amount of early pension to be determined by the formula for a normal pension with a reduction for each failing month 0.4 per cent; - the amount of the pension shall not be less than 90 per cent of the minimum amount of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the CSR, which is determined by the State Social Security Budget Act. According to the reasons for the changes, the additional costs for early pensions will only be necessary in the short period of up to 24 months after which, due to the reduced amount of the life pension concerned, funds will be saved in the Fund. - fixing the maximum amount of the insurance income to be set at ten minimum salaries for the country, respectively cancellation of the annual determination of the maximum social security income in the State Security Budget Act. With the change, importers consider that there will be a better predictability of funds in the general government budget and that it will also encourage the participation of people in social security in order to obtain higher pensions; - a change in the amount of the pension by increasing the share of each year of insurance service from 1.1 to 1.2 from 1 January 2016 to meet the minimum standards requirements of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security, ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in June 2008; - persons who have acquired the right to an age pension and internship but continue to work without being granted a pension to receive an additional 4 per cent in one year of insurance service, 4.5 per cent in two years and 5 per cent in over three years and the corresponding proportional part of those percentages for the months of insurance service. The importers propose that the law should enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the necessary means to implement it being provided through the increased social security contributions and will not have any impact on the 2015 budget. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The bill was not supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, NOI, Association of Industrial Capital, Ministry of Finance and Bulgarian Industrial Association. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee did not support the proposed Draft. After the discussion, a vote with the following results was held: with 3 votes for a vote, 7 votes against a vote and 8 votes abstention. The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to support a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-104, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 28 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. There is no report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the bill submitted by Valeri Simeonov and the group of MPs. Under the National Representative Velizar Enchev's bill, except that it has not been dealt with by the committee responsible, there is no report from the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u8	There's a report from the Defense Commission. He's on time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u9	The Chairman of the Defence Committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe To the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-91, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 14 May 2015. At a regular meeting held on 4 June 2015, the Defence Committee discussed at the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-91, submitted by the National Representative Velizar Penkov Enchev. The meeting was attended by 12 MPs. In the course of the discussion, three MPs left because of participation in other committees. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev. The bill was presented by the MP Velizar Penkov Enchev, who outlined the reasons for his submission to the National Assembly. The bill proposes a change in the text of art. 69, para. 1 of the Social Security Code to be amended as follows: the word "military workers" shall be replaced by the expression "the persons performing military service" and the expression "in the event of discharge from military service" shall be added; at the end of the paragraph shall be added the expression "in the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria." In his motives, the importer pointed out that the current text of para. 1 of art. 69 of the Social Security Code applies only to the persons of the first and second groups of people who are soldiers and are entitled to a pension in the event of an exemption from service by denying the right to a pension of the third group of persons performing military service (former servicemen). He pointed out that fundamental principles for equal treatment of citizens and insured persons are violated, as recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Code of Social Security. The importer read the opinion of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev, with which the latter expressed his consent in principle with the bill but did not submit such an opinion to the Commission. Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev expressed the basic agreement of the Ministry of Defence with the proposals for amendment and supplement of the Code of Social Security under point. 1 et c. 2 of the Bill and proposed revision of the text in point 2. 3, where to be mentioned as referring to active service holders. In the discussion of the draft was attended by all present MPs from the Defence Committee, who united around the following opinion: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 of the Social Security Code are regulated ways of obtaining a pension of nine categories of persons exercising professions and referred to in the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on the Ministry of Interior, the Law on Special Intelligence, the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, the Law on Postal Services, the Law on the Judicial Authority, the Law on State Agency. The purpose of the pension reform, with changes in art. 69 of the Social Security Code is that all who retire under the terms of this article should be placed on a single starting point for retirement. All persons working under the rules of this Law shall have the same contribution to the insurance system and if the text in art. 69, para. 1 of the Social Security Code only for, I quote, the person performing military service, according to the importer's proposal, this would indeed be discrimination against the other categories of employees. In order to implement the proposal of the importer, a change is necessary not only in the text of art. 69, para. 1 of the Social Security Code and of the other paragraphs of that Article and of other legislative documents. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 relating to the removal of the expression in the case of dismissal from the service, in para. 1 of art. 69 has been repeatedly placed by trade unions and public organisations because it does not really defend the rights of the freed for one reason or another soldiers and, above all, the burdens of reforms in the Armed Forces. Some of them do not have the age required for the title they hold, others do not have the general internship, others have the general internship, but do not have the two thirds of the years of service in the Armed Forces required by the Code. In the course of their pensionless stay after the release, some manage to fill in their lack of retirement. But they can't retire because they're being thrown out of the system the expression that's being proposed to drop out of para. 1 of art. 69 In the event of dismissal from service, as they are currently not in service within the meaning of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and are not exempt from military service in order to retire. This is really discrimination against this category of people now, and this expression should be supported for dropping out of the Code. As regards the proposal for changes in art. 69, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security related to the Reserves and their retirement should be noted that in the Act for the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 35, para. 1 is written: "For the time of active service, the reserver from the voluntary reserve of the Armed Forces has the status of a soldier...... and in art. 35, para. 2 is recorded: The amount of time during which the reserver is in active service is considered to be a first-class service. This circumstance creates a condition for supplementing the shortage of up to two-thirds of the insurance service experience in the Armed Forces or in other power offices. This coincides with the proposal of the importer and with the requirements of the public organisations and trade unions, it is precisely in line with the status of these categories of employees and workers from the power offices and should be supported. The Members of the National Assembly appreciated the positive in the Bill, but stated that only one category of employees should be tolerated, but adequate changes are needed for all categories retiring under the conditions of art. 69 of the Social Security Code, which is enshrined in the Law of the Council of Ministers and was known to the Commission during the discussion. After hearing the reasons and discussion, a vote took place in which 9 MPs participated. With 2 votes for the defence committee adopted the following decision: Asks the National Assembly not to adopt at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 554-01-91, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 14 May 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u11	Thank you, dear General. Mihov. We can move on to the opinions of the importers. Mr. Siderov, come in, you have the floor to present your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The changes we propose in the Social Security Code are ideological. I am immediately stressing this, as it is very important. These are not changes that affect half of the insurance or any other palliative measures that we see in other proposals. These are ideological changes because politics is a clash of ideas. The idea of the Political Party is this: we must exit the liberal model in which we were introduced after 1990, especially after 1997, which hit the hardest population in retirement age. In fact, people at retirement age took the worst blow to the so-called pass. A transition to what? A transition to wild capitalism. At the moment, they continue to tolerate it, and therefore, if we really are MPs, we are obliged to make it easier for them to live. We propose that at the first point not to increase the retirement age of something that is a trend. Yes, it is required by Brussels, but we must finally say clearly that not everything that is offered by Brussels is good, not to say that most things are not good for the Bulgarian population. Do not increase, i.e. drop the text that provides for an increase in retirement age. This trend was observed by governments of different backgrounds, which means that it doesn't really matter who manages Bulgaria. It is managed according to a colonial model. We want to end this colonial model. Our second proposal, the second part of our proposal, is actually the most important because it concerns the so-called minimum pension. The minimum pension in Bulgaria is not humiliatingly low, it is simply shockingly low, it is genocideally low. At the time when this Bill was written, these amendments were taken from 2013, as we have long been proposing and talking about our idea to raise the minimum pension. The data we are looking at here shows that the minimum pension in Bulgaria was BGN 155 at the time. Or maybe 80 euros a month. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, for comparison, I will give you countries not of the European Union, because if we start comparing there, there the differences are cosmic times, 10-15 times higher. I will give you, for example, the countries of the so-called... either the fourth or the fifth world.................................. or the fifth world...................................... For example, the country of Gabon in Africa, which does not belong to the EU and NATO, is not a happy country like us, the minimum pension is EUR 194, I repeat: Gabon, Africa There are many examples that point out that Bulgaria is in one of the last places in the world, for Europe we are not talking about, in the size of pensions. At the same time, prices in our country over the last two and a half decades have not decreased and have not been frozen, but have grown and continue to grow. That is, we have a really genocide blow to the population, especially to what is most defenseless, most vulnerable to the population at a more advanced age, which has in no way been able to compensate or defend itself against the impact of both inflation and expensive life and low income. I'll tell you another statistic, it's very fresh. It was given as a response by Mr. Social Minister only recently to a request from a colleague of ours. One and two hundred million, one million and 200,000 Bulgarian pensioners currently live below the poverty line, which is currently BGN 286. A million and two hundred thousand! This means that more than one sixth of the population of Bulgaria is currently living below the official poverty line. I do not know how this can be considered normal, but apparently it is accepted as normal, because the reports we hear from the highest institutions,... from the Council of Ministers, from the Ministry, from inspections and so on, reject our proposal with the assumption that there was no money. To this question, to this speculation more precisely, I will answer that there is money, only if you want to find it for that purpose. They're for other purposes. We have recently heard the phrase: "Thank you, Boyko!" by Mr Juncker. Why? Because poor Bulgaria, the poorest Bulgaria in Europe gave 100 million to the so-called Plan Juncker. What's this plan? Nobody knows. Where will they go? Nobody knows. But Juncker said, "Thank you, Boyko!" I would like to hear the reverse phrase from our Prime Minister: "Thank you, Mr Juncker, for providing Bulgaria with the money needed to raise the pensions! " Our proposal is laid down as an exact number of 500 BGN, we point out from 1 January 2015, because, as I told you, this is written 2014. What's with the size? Two hundred and fifty euros minimum pension. I mean, that's where retirement pay starts. The answer of one of the institutions is that this would be worth 530 million per month or about 6 billion. lv. per year. I ask: Is this not feasible, given that only for 2011 all multinationals, foreign companies, stress, foreign, not Bulgarian, who are currently exploiting the wealth of Bulgaria, the gold treasures of the ERP are exporting the profit from communications, ERPs, MOLs, hypermarkets and so on. All that Bulgaria gains is in the hands of foreign companies. They export 28 billion. lv. In 2011 28 billion were sunk in their banks! And we are talking that there is not 6 billion to make the Bulgarian citizen of retirement finally feel worthy. We can't provide them! Well, if you can't, gentlemen in charge, give way to those who can. Go home and say: "We can't do it!"..as Stoyan Danev in 1913 say: "Our policy has failed" and go away. Because if you can't ensure a decent existence for your people and for those who have worked for years and have given their lives for their country to build what is today, by the way, much is destroyed, then what are you a ruler for? What are you a manager for for memento photos with Merkel? No, I don't think that's the function of a ruler of a people who deserves more respect and life. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I plead with you both as Bulgarians and as people who each of you have some relatives who are in retirement age, everyone knows what life is like outside the yellow pavement in the country, especially where there is no job, where there is no income, where domestic crime is huge and on top of that, she is retired. I plead to your conscience and your mind to accept these proposals, thus stimulating. Let this be the whip to chase the rulers to start thinking about how to raise incomes in Bulgaria. We cannot continue this situation to beat ourselves in the chest, that we are a European state, that we have financial stability and at the same time a million and a half pensioners to live below the poverty line of BGN 286. This is insane. We can't accept it and agree with it. Therefore, the battle of the attack will continue to increase incomes and pensions. The question is how will the majority respond because we are the minority. We are 11 people, but the rest of us up to 240 need to decide how from now on it will be in Bulgaria..................... whether a large part of the people will continue to sink into misery and see no hope anywhere, and there will be a small part of the super rich people or we will really be such a state as the Constitution says socially. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. The draft of Radan Kanev and a group of MPs will present to us the national representative Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Kalfin, honourable Members, I will present the reasons for the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Code of Social Security. It is relevant to the Act on the Budget of State Social Security for 2015 and the amendments and additions to the Social Security Code and the general rule for determining the starting date of the granting of a pension for internship and age, which is regulated by art. 94, para. 1 of the Social Security Code. On the basis of the same pensions, they shall be granted from the date of acquisition of the right where the person has applied for a pension within six months of that date and, secondly, from the date of the application for a pension where the application has been lodged outside the six-month period from the acquisition of the right to a pension. That right shall also apply to persons who have acquired the right to a pension for internship and age until 31 December 2014, their insurance has been terminated before 1 January 2015 and have applied for a pension for internship and age after 31 December 2014. This row raises a significant problem for some of the persons who acquired the right to an internship and age pension in 2014, which can be expressed by the following example: if a person has acquired the right to a retirement pension in April 2014 and has ceased his insurance in November 2014 and has applied for a pension after 1 January 2015, the retirement pension will not be granted retroactively since the person has not submitted the application within six months of the date of acquisition of the right because that period has been omitted. This example shows that the pension of this person will be granted from the date of submission of the application, subject to the provision of art. 94, para. 1 of the Social Security Code. That person will only be harmed by the fact that he has decided not to exercise his right to a pension immediately but to continue his insurance for some time after the date of the acquisition of the right, but for subjective reasons or circumstances which do not depend on him has failed to submit his application within six months of the termination of the provision, as was the requirement of the repealed para. 2 of art. 94 of the Social Security Code and has done so since 1 January 2015. In general, these are the reasons for the proposed amendment tabled. My fellow Members, I would like to say that the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, as has become clear from the report, this proposal has been unanimously supported. The representative of the National Insurance Institute also gave his positive arguments. The representative of the Ministry of Finance also gave a positive opinion in terms of the possibility of financial burdening the budget. My fellow Members, I believe that if you support this proposal, indeed, this omission, this certain injustice will give those people who have entered the case referred to by me a chance to actually benefit from their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. On the bill with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs will express the popular representative Christian Mitev. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will give you a very summary of the reasons why we have made this proposal for amendment to the Social Security Code. The Republic of Bulgaria ratified Convention No 71 on the pensions of the seamen since 1946 with the Decree of the Presidium then at the Grand National Assembly of 31 August 1949. The Convention is in force for Bulgaria from 10 October 1962. According to the provision of art. 3, p. 1 of it, the pensions provided for must be granted to seafarers who have served a certain period of work by sea at the age of 55 or 60. With art. 2, p. 1 of the same Convention obliges each Member State of the International Labour Organisation, for which this Convention is in force, to introduce a pension scheme for seafarers who withdraw from maritime service. This text is directly bound to art. 3, para. 1 of the same Convention. During the period of the Thirty-eighth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 1997 of the first category of work, sailors were transferred to the second category of work. The condition to be retired was 57 years of age and an internship total of 1st and 2nd category 15 years, which fulfilled the requirement of the quoted text of art. 3 of Convention No 71. The requirement of that provision is categorical and imperative: pensions must be granted to seafarers who meet these two requirements and not operatively, i.e. according to the possibilities or the domestic legislation of the country. The placing of sailors in retirement conditions under art. 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the current Code of Social Security in gross violation of the requirements of Convention No 71 and in particular of the said Art. 3, para. 1 of it, since adding a 100-point sum and internship clause to a member of the International Convention can only be done if this is consistent with the International Labour Organisation and other Member States respectively. The Republic of Bulgaria may provide for exceptions as it deems necessary only for persons who worked on vessels not belonging to the category of sailor, similar to those listed in art. 2, para. 2 of the same Convention. The introduction of such a requirement in the adoption of the Code in force is, in our view, unlawful. The necessary legislative provisions have not been introduced so as to preserve the rights of the seamen as required by art. 3, p. 1 of the Convention, the problem in this case is not that the Bulgarian State has not walked according to national law the pension regime of sailors according to the requirements of the Convention, because the conditions for retirement of the working second category of work under the Bulgarian legislation until the introduction of the so-called... system.......................................................................... 3 of the Convention on the Pensions of Seafarers, and in that when the pension regime changes and the creation of the now-in-Office § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Code on Social Security the Bulgarian State has not drawn up and has not introduced the necessary legislative provisions to preserve their rights as required by art. 4, para. 1 of the Convention. Those legislative provisions are imperative precisely because of the requirement of § 4 in its part, a sum of age and service, which must be equal to 100, not having such a requirement in any of the texts of that International Convention, and no Member State of the ILO has expressed an opinion on changing the content of the Convention to that effect. The employment and employment relations of the seamen are determined by the requirement of the Code of Commercial Shipping, International Conventions ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria and given the specifics of their work, factors with which the legislative authority failed to comply with the introduction of § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code. For this reason, sailors of this category are disadvantaged in relation to the other professions in which workers retire under the rules of the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, thereby introducing a discriminatory regime. The following motivates us to offer your attention to this Law supplementing the Code of Social Security, which introduces the rules of art. 3 of Convention No 71 on Pensions for Seafarers of 1946, which will, in our view, create the necessary legislative provisions to protect the rights of sailors in retirement as provided for in the Convention, as well as introduce the requirements of the same Convention in the current Bulgarian legislation, with which Bulgaria will also fulfil the obligations undertaken by ratification and thus face this injustice which was admitted in the adoption of § 4, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security and the change of the regime under which seafarers retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. The bill with importers Maya Manolova and a group of MPs will be presented to you by the National Representative Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kalfin! With colleagues Dora Yankova and Georgi Gokov, we introduced this bill at the end of last year after meeting with miners in our electoral regions and at their request and insistence in order to adopt legislative changes to enable early retirement of the people who work under the most difficult conditions to continue. Now, 10 months later, this bill continues to be up-to-date, because after meetings with regard to the pension form of the ruling majority, we have heard from the underground miners that they continue to be worried about trying to reach out to early retirement opportunities. In fact, the most serious argument that underground miners are absolutely right was another incident that cost the lives of a young man that we encountered, meeting with underground miners in Madan City. I am pleased that as a result of our efforts and demands and the Deputy Prime Minister himself met with the underground miners. At the meeting he was able to hear their problems and eventually retreated from his initial firm position to make it virtually impossible for retirement under the conditions of art. 328 of the Labour Code, namely at the age of 45, in the presence of 10 years of underground service, 90 points and reduction of state or liquidation of enterprises, because this is actually the opportunity that all underground miners working under extremely difficult and risky conditions for their lives and health and their families. Agree, honourable Members, that when you have put the future of your children, of your family, of your life, it is normal to expect from the solidarity pension system, of the state, to give you at least an early retirement opportunity. So we continue to insist that the retirement opportunities of 45 years under these conditions remain a fact, and if Minister Kalfin and the ruling majority take any action, in no case will age be less than 55 years old, and that its increase in practice be in the smoothest possible way, so that there are no people like those we have met who say that, under the emerging perspective, time will run out if pension reform comes into force, and their retirement will drift away as a mirage forward in time. Meanwhile, other categorical workers also voiced their discontent and protest against cooked pension changes and sought meetings with us. I think that if Minister Kalfin bothered to hold meetings and talks with them, he would be convinced of the justice of their demands, although the ruling majority was persistently pretending not to see the protesting policemen who spent weeks in front of parliament. Each one of them, if he hears what policemen and workers in the sector want, including servicemen, will be convinced that what they want is fair and right to happen. Excuse me, do you think it's normal for a 55-year-old man who's on a mission to run through the desert with 45 kilos of military equipment and a gas mask to be effective? Because in the end, the changes that are being proposed and which will be adopted by this majority mean that. Moreover, these provisions apply equally to men and women who work in the sector. Imagine a 55-year-old woman wearing a 45-pound outfit and being effective. I think that all women in parliament should show solidarity with women who work in the security sector, first of all, because in the Bulgarian Army, service women are one of the largest rates in all of Europe - 14%, which will have to retire at the age of 55 years, proposed by Minister Kalfin. Dear fellow MPs, do you think it is normal for a woman of service to retire at the age of 55 and thus far perform her military service with all her burdens? What's more, do you think it's normal for a female policeman to patrol the streets in 55 years? Do you think it's right for a clerk sitting behind the DMV desk to retire at the same age as a female policeman or a female serviceman to retire? I believe that here the sense of solidarity should also speak to women who will retire under the conditions of category III labour. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I call on you between first and second readings to make common proposals with which to make it impossible to retire women and men of the same age, because we are all in Bulgarian conditions more men than men, because we work, we give birth to children, we raise them, we care for families and we are always on the front line when we have to defend causes and make difficult decisions, and at lower remuneration. I suppose Minister Kalfin knows as Minister of Social Policy that women in Bulgaria receive about 14% lower remuneration than men working in the same positions. Women much less often take positions from which they can participate in the decision-making process and discrimination with regard to their right to work is a fact, especially in transition countries such as Bulgaria. So another injustice to those working and struggling for themselves and for their families women in Bulgaria will be the equalization of the retirement age of women and men. I therefore call for a common front by women in parliament to oppose the political will of the majority, of Minister Kalfin and of the intention of adopting the reform in an intact form to stand up for the rights of many women who do not have this opportunity that we, namely to speak, to participate in decision-making, to defend causes and to fight for their rights. I also expect, as in the case of the miners, Minister Kalfin to rethink his intention of leveling the age of retirement of women and men in terms of category III, but especially with regard to those working in the sector of Security and in category I and II, where there are working women, because for them the same age and increasing age is a fact at present, which is extremely unfair in the conditions of difficult survival of Bulgarians in modern Bulgaria. I expect my call for solidarity from women to meet support, and immediately after the adoption of the bills at first reading, I will initiate a gathering of women MPs for joint action in relation to your pension reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. The word has the people representative Velizar Enchev, who will present his bill to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kalfin, ladies and gentlemen! I present a bill which, I turn to GERB party, in 2013 was submitted for discussion by Mr. Dobroslav Dimitrov. During a vote in plenary at first reading was approved by 50 MPs from GERB party. In the committee in 2013, chaired again by Mr. Hassan Ademov, this bill is defended by Mrs. Svetlana Angelova and Mr. Vladimir Toshev. After presenting the bill I will recall what they said in plenary, as I hold the transcript of the speeches by Mr. Dobroslav Dimitrov and Mr. Toshev. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. What are the reasons to introduce this important Bill, as I said, proposed and supported by GERB two years ago? The essence of the requirement of para. 1 of art. 69 of the Social Security Code is a typical example of discrimination against persons with the same contribution to the social security system, but with different rights to use retirement. There are three options for persons implementing military services or the categories of persons implementing military services. Listen carefully to these three categories to find out what discrimination we are talking about. The first category are servicemen who have entered the military service and are released from it and their entire social security service is 27 years under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The second group of people are soldiers who worked under the terms of the Labour Code and then joined the army as soldiers and also had 27 years of insurance service, of which two thirds actually served as servicemen. The third group of those in charge of military service were then made redundant in the many reforms in the Bulgarian Army, which deboned it, worked under the terms of the Labour Code and had 27 years of joint insurance service, of which two thirds actually served as servicemen. According to the current text of para. Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, Art. 1, 69 of the Social Security Code, it shall apply only to persons of group I and II. With this text................................................................................................ Art. 1, art. 69 of the Labour Code, the following rights have been violated: 1. The principle of constitutionality, justice and equality of citizens is violated; 2. The principle of equal treatment of insured persons is violated here Minister Kalfin should support me; 3. The principle of social dialogue in the management of the insurance system is violated; 4. The requirement of art. 6, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely that privileges are granted on the grounds of personal and public status to the persons of service and the rights of citizens of former servicemen are revoked. What's the conclusion of what I'm telling you? The conclusion is: it is obvious that for the time of active service, the reservers from the voluntary reserve of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria have the status of soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and it is appropriate to take into account in art. 69 with an addition at the end of para. 1 which, if done, will become equal, i.e. the reserves of active service and the soldiers of the first two categories. At the moment, the text of art. 69, para. 1 of the Social Security Code is unconstitutional, i.e. in the case of the same general insurance service for those performing military service, i.e. the servicemen and those performing military service, i.e. former servicemen with the same contribution to the insurance system, they are unequal as insured persons in their retirement, depending on whether they were military personnel, personal and public, or former servicemen. That is, with the change I propose and has proposed the GERB party two years ago on para. Art. 1, art. 69 of the Social Security Code, a level playing field will be achieved with the same general insurance internship to acquire the right to pension rights of the persons of I and II group of servicemen and persons of the discriminated against group III. And something very important from a financial point of view, as I suppose there will be objections to financiers. The proposed change does not require significant funds as it concerns a limited number of persons subject to retirement. I repeat, GERB, as I said at the beginning, supports this in 2013 and is voted by 50 MPs of the party. I recall the shorthand from 2013, when Mr. Dobroslav Dimitrov explained it, perhaps much better than I did. See what he says, arguing, bringing this bill to the plenary, I quote: "To say what is the difference between the persons and the servicemen. It will be so that people who have served the same number of years in the army, but some have served 25 years in the army first and then 2 years of something else, and others who have worked something else for 2 years and then served 25 years in the army will not be able to use the regime and others will not be able to use it. That is why he proposes to make the correction that I propose. Immediately after him, Mr. Vladimir Toshev said the following, replicating Mr. Aliosman Imamov, then Chairman of the Social Affairs Commission: Mr. Toshev, says Mr. Toshev, currently officers and sergeants, graduates of secondary and higher military schools, serve outside the system of the Bulgarian Army at the SANS, he says. Did you know that there was a whole structure from the army a few years ago, and in the Ministry of Interior a large group of Sergeant Officers, also in Foreign Intelligence, etc., and they will not have these rights. And continues Mr. Toshev, addressing the then minister Mr. Naydenov of BSP: "Mr. Minister, there is a problem because if a sergeant or an officer has served 26 years and now, at the moment, the last year before he is 27 years of service at the DANS or at the Ministry of Interior, he has no right to retire. I can further quote the speeches, a very good argument of the MPs from GERB party, but I will stop there because I believe that this is enough argumentation and you, colleagues from GERB party, and you, colleagues from the right, to support this law, as you once supported it in the management of BSP and DPS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u22	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank everyone for their interest in the subject of the proposals that have been made. Indeed, the state of the pension system in Bulgaria is such that I have not heard anyone say that it is good. It's obviously bad, guaranteeing low incomes for people. That's the result of a lot of things, I'm not going back. The fact is that currently the budget of the National Insurance Institute is 9 billion. 600 million. lv. In addition, there are private pension funds that are already entering the area of payment of pensions. The country's resources are great, the effect is extremely small. Something worse. If this trend is maintained, given the demographic characteristics in the country and if we keep the current situation and do not change it, then in just ten years we can expect even more serious results, even more dependence on the national budget of the pension system, depreciation in practice of the solidarity pillar and low pensions, as the funds in the budget are generated, we know, not by focuss, but by the economy. With great attention and interest I follow and listen to all the suggestions on how to increase this resource. There are different ideas. Mr. Siderov says if foreign chains are closed, 28 billion will enter the economy. This, by the way, is a third of the current economy. In the BSP project, which we will hear shortly, Mr. Mikov will present it, says to take another billion for next year from citizens and businesses and give it to the people. There are options. The question is whether these options are stable and how, when we look at the pension system as a permanent system and not year-to-year, it can be sustainable and withstand this demographic picture, which is obvious. We see that the Bulgarian population is ageing and in years there will be much more pensioners and much less people who produce gross domestic product. Yes, we will count on the economy to be much more efficient, fewer people to produce more product and it will be able to distribute. We also have capital accounts that will also interfere with the market. But again, I am telling you that anyone who deals professionally with this subject knows very well that maintaining the current situation guarantees a disaster with pensions in the future. I think there is no question about the need to change this system. It hasn't been done for many years, because in this change there are things that are not pleasant to voters. For one reason or another, this system and this architecture, which we currently have, have been introduced 15 years ago, in 2000, despite the obvious problems in the pension system, refuse to make lasting decisions. There is one § 4 at the end of the Social Security Code, with which a year per year is continuously taken interim measures and some of them have been temporary, annual measures and postponed for 15 years. This gives uncertainty, this gives the system instability, this gives people fear that the pension system cannot provide them with good income. When we started working on this system, we didn't start from scratch. From the first day that I came to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I received a development from experts who worked for a very long time from the time he was Minister Dr. Ademov, I do not know if before that I had been working during the time of Mr. Christkov. There are experts, academic representatives, people who understand pension systems, who instead of dealing with politics, had done a project. This project is largely accounted for in what we are proposing. We are talking, indeed, about a system that is important not to be political, as many governments will change and it is important that the system be permanent, it is important to be sustainable and expert. We have had extremely many conversations and consultations. Mrs. Manolova advises me to see policemen and other people. I have to tell you, we've been consulting for seven months. As of November 2014, at the beginning of this year, we included the political forces represented in parliament, at the end of March, we completed the main package and continued the discussions with the different associations. We've seen all the stakeholders who are concerned with the pension system, and they, believe me, are a lot. The working group, which was set up, listened to all the proposals, analysed them, were given over 50 proposals. After all, we have come to those, a little over 20, which we are putting forward today as proposals. It is not a coincidence, and this is really unique in one such area, we enter Parliament with the support of the social partners of trade unions and employers. I say this with gratitude to trade unions and employers, who then had meetings with most parliamentary groups, because they really showed responsibility, they showed common sense. This is not all that should happen in the pension system, but this package is supported as much as possible. Yeah, everybody's gonna want something more in some direction. But from employers and trade unions, and these are representatives of huge parts of the Bulgarian society, both of workers and of people who provide labor, there was this responsible approach and I am very grateful to them that they really showed such responsibility. Very few are the difficult, important bills that thus enter the National Assembly. I think this should be a sign to the Members of the National Assembly how thoughtful it is, consulted, balanced, accepted by society, meaningful and sustainable is the option we propose. What do we propose to change in the pension system? Changes have two goals. One objective is to ensure that pensions increase. The second objective is to ensure sustainability, which will give people perspective and confidence that the pension system will bring them enough good and adequate income once they are out of the labour market. Are we setting these targets? I think with this proposal, yes. Regarding the increase in pensions. What we are proposing guarantees an increase of around 40% of the new pensions, and that is within a few years of forecasting, and releases a resource of about 1 billion. lv. of the current ones given, which could help low pensions. Of course, this effect will be seen when the measures come into force. This is the second element. We could have suggested that from January 1st next year everything would change, but it would be very difficult for people. Indeed, people who have worked their whole lives... by the way no one has retired under the conditions under which they have started, unfortunately, work for everyone and every category of work changes the conditions, but not to make an unattainable goal of retirement. So some of the changes enter very smoothly and gradually, so that people will not de facto feel them. Tell me, what will men feel when one month each year will increase their retirement age?! This was a big problem, and now there is a proposal: "No, let's freeze it! " I'm telling you people won't feel this thing. It is not a load, but at the same time has an effect on the system. Our offer is short. In the budget of the National Insurance Institute there is an income and expenditure part. With regard to the revenue section, the Parliament is grateful for which I am grateful to you in December 2014 took the first step by criminalising the concealment of insurance contributions. The result this year is already seen with a much better collection of insurance contributions. What we are proposing further is an increase in 2017 and 2018 by 1% of the contributions made by employers. As you know, they split into 60% at the expense of employers and 40% at the expense of workers. If you consider them a proportion to the paid salary, it is absolutely bearable, I would say inconspicuous or not heavy for business and people condition, but brings a significant additional resource. If we do this next year, there is such a proposal, it means to withdraw one billion leva from the economy from 2016. We deliberately do not do it to give air, perspective, autonomy. Secondly, since we are talking about tightening control and increasing entrance contributions, we also need to talk about access to pension rights. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, the average effective retirement age is just over 57. " 57 C.E. and 4 C.E. " This is not because the mass group of people are working for so many years, but because there are so many exceptions in the system. Some of them are inexplicable, some are exactly the ones that are delayed from year to year. For the last 15 years, the age requirement has been increased by only 8 months for first and second category workers. However, the third category operating is significantly higher. There are extremely many injustices in this regard. What we're doing is a smooth increase in age. For the third-class workers, the men born in 1964 will be the first to retire at 65. All born before that will retire earlier. Women born in 1972 will be the first to retire at 65. For the first and second categories of work, we reduce the end goal, which so far is 62 and 57, and we are doing it for 60 and 55 years, but we are clogging up the process of increasing the age by 2 months a year to reach that age. For some special categories of workers, because it was about the miners, at the moment about a miner, starting work, I also asked the unions what they say to the young miners entering work, the age by law is 52 years and 8 months today, according to the laws adopted by the National Assembly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u23	Dear Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman, please allow me three more minutes to complete the general presentation. Then I'll get into more detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u25	Then, in the course of the debates, you will have the opportunity to proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u26	It is important that the right to retir early retiring is reserved for restructuring. But this is only in the case of restructuring, it is an exception. A lot of people don't understand that, but they do, and you need to know. Yes, we are introducing age for employees in the sector of security, but notice, we are introducing the actual middle age at which they retired last year. Many of them we have had conversations with do not want to go out, but to continue working, as long as they are guaranteed rights. We're introducing an opportunity for a year's early retirement when we're underage. We are introducing a requirement that will ensure that pensions are increased by increasing the coefficient by which they multiply each year internship. At the moment it is 1.1%, it will reach 1.5%. Here comes the forty percent increase in pensions, which will come gradually. We are introducing a number of mechanisms which allow for the implementation of what was adopted in December 2014. the free use of the capital accounts of the pension funds. The next step we will continue to work on is related to capital accounts. There are a lot of things out there that need to change. There was also a special committee in parliament for this. We are currently working on clarifying and making the wheelchair pension system much more transparent and understandable. That's what we're gonna do, too. There are employees to whom we also understand. In my opinion, agricultural workers, for whom last year we increased the minimum insurance income, should remain so that especially small producers in Bulgarian agriculture have the opportunity to take air and stabilize. There are exceptions associated with rare professions, such as pilots, fighters, paratroopers, rescuers and divers who work under unnatural conditions. There are exceptions there too, but these are few people and there is no point in talking about them. Here, however, we take the same and fair approach to all, fully in line with European practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The last bill with importers of the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs will be presented to us by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! With our bill, we set four goals. Three are targeted at different groups in society that cover the pension system, and one is a fiscal objective, but I put it last. The first goal that we set is aimed at the current pensioners and is to increase the current pensions, because for absolutely everyone it is understandable that by 200 leva. There's no way to live today. The second goal is oriented towards people who do not reach two years of internship or retirement age and who neither the labour market system covers because they are too old to hire employers or the pension system covers them because they are too young to retire. To a very large extent, these people are resorting to receiving the so-called disability pensions and this is part of the problem that we will also be discussing. The third objective is oriented towards the current young working people, to whom we want to give confidence that by importing their insurance, tomorrow they will receive predictable and clearly clear pensions and will not be constantly put in place when the requirements for retirement, increased internship and age are changed. Our fourth goal is that all this should not be at the expense of financial stability of the state social security budget, i.e. not deepening the deficit in the NSI. How do we intend to achieve these goals by the means we offer in our bill? We propose that the increase in the current pensions be done by multiplying them by a coefficient of 1,2.. instead of the previous 1.1 and that it be done from 1 January 2016. It really means that the pensions from 1 January 2016 will increase by 10%. This is an alternative proposal from the government. They propose this recalculation to start only in 2017, to be with the ratio of the Swiss rule, i.e. an uncertain coefficient, because in inflation at the moment there is no forecast of how much the Swiss rule will be, it may be zero, it is uncertain in time, they have not said any time until 1.5%. It can be in 2057. So hypothetically, when many of the current pensioners will not be alive to see this increase. Secondly, the second objective, we propose to those who are short of internship or two years of age, to be given the opportunity to retire early by 0.4% lower coefficient. This lower remuneration or pension, which they will receive for the rest of their lives, compensates for the revenue that the State makes up for earlier retirement. Here we do not concern the deficit in the budget of state social security. Thirdly, the current workers, to whom we want to guarantee and ensure that someday they will receive pensions and a changed majority in parliament, or another government, will not constantly put them to the test and to the uncertainty. Here we offer the freezing of internship and age. Mr. Kalfin, there's no way in all the expert evaluations you've made to retire at the age of 65 and have 40 years of internship. For the transition of 25 years many people this generation worked in the gray sector and you know it. What you're suggesting is that at 25 you get a job, and by 65 you don't have a single day of social security. That's practically impossible. With this increase in internship and age, you condemn many people, and from this generation, on which all experiments were done, you can never meet the conditions for retirement. That's why we offer the freezing of internship and age. Financial stability to ensure these measures. We have a proposal on the revenue side of the IPO budget, which will allow for expenditure on these 3 measures. The costs, honourable Members, are 800 million. This is the flexible retirement, the freezing of internship and age, and the increase in the pension will cost the state 800 million. We're pointing out where that money's gonna come from, even more than 970 million. We propose to increase the contribution to the Fund by 2%, by 1% the contribution to the Fund, and to increase the maximum social security threshold of 10 minimum wages. And this should be written in principle in the Social Security Code, not in the budget each year. Increasing the maximum social security threshold to 10 salaries means that people with higher incomes will make higher contributions. The increase in the contributions to the Fund is necessary because in the last 12 years these contributions have been constantly reduced, as a result of which the business has been saved around 20 billion. lv. Well, let's all appreciate it. We've all done it, we've all reduced in different governments. Let's say that's enough! That shows it doesn't work. This led to this deficit. Let's go easy on the payments. Of those measures that I have said will come about 97 million, that is enough to cover the costs that we offer and which are oriented, besides financially and human, and to ensure adequate pensions for the current pensioners. Finally, I would like to touch on a subject that we seem to be discussing on these bills a little bit. It is about the government's proposals which concern private pension funds, honourable Members. The government quietly in the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Bill cancels that stupidity that you did at the end of December with the Bill submitted by Mr. Goranov. And, as I recall, Mr. Kalfin, you were against it then, you were surprised, here you learned it in the gym. I remind you that this was about: if a person's contributions went to the NRA, but he did not mention within three months which pension fund to go to, the state formally transferred them to the NRA. And it was said that this would be settled by a decree of the Ministry of Finance. Such a regulation did not appear. As a result of this unthinkable change in December and to this day, the National Revenue Agency stands at over 100 million. lv. Their personal contributions, which were supposed to be in their accounts and to bring them income, are in the IRA. And someday these people are gonna find out and sue the state for not getting their income from their own money, and you kept it in the NRA. By the way, you put them in banks and profited from that interest. This is a state strike against these people. As a result of that change in December, the situation is now so. Now the government is proposing that we cancel that change, which is obviously stupid and not working and go back to the old model, if a person within three months doesn't tell himself which fund to go to, then this should be done by the NRA and they can transfer it there. First, this. Back to the old model. Second, however, the more dangerous thing that we do not share, and our bill gives the money from individual accounts to people who have decided to provide themselves only to the DEO to go to the Silver Fund. Colleagues, the Silver Fund is part of the state reserve. Yeah, going there, they can't be used for anything but pensions. But they increase the total amount of the state reserve, which allows the rest of it to be used for other purposes and manipulated. That is, the people's contributions, their private money will be used for fiscal purposes to demonstrate fiscal stability and increase the state reserve in Bulgaria. This is something a little more intelligent and more cleverly done, but it is series 2 of what Dyankov did with the Health Insurance Fund. That's more like it. Goranov made it more intelligent, but we're not gonna leave it that way and let people know that. It won't stay hidden. Dear people born after 1959 will take your contributions from the funds, will go to the Silver Fund, will not bring you income, will not be inherited if, God forbid, someone dies. The state will spin it around, and in the meantime it will profit from it, it will show high financial results. Someday you'll get back the same 50 levs they gave you. I hope that's guaranteed, too, I'm not sure. Mr. Kalfin, resist this. Even though this bill belongs to the Council of Ministers. This is a violation of the insurance rights of individuals of citizens of Bulgaria and we will not support it. I end up with the main difference. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please extend me the speaking time of the group. I end up with the main difference between our bill and the government. It's in philosophy and in purpose. Honourable Members, the government has set its goal with this supposed reform to ensure financial stability of the DVO budget and it is written repeatedly in the motives. It says: "The first increase in age and internship at the end of the growing period in 2037 will lead to a gradual reduction in pension costs by about 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product. Or the expected effect of introducing the retirement age of the persons under art. 69 is in a reduction in pension costs by about 4.1 million. The purpose, thought and philosophy of the government is to reduce the cost of pensions and this is achieved by changing the conditions for retirement so as to reduce the number of pensioners. There is no objective, there is no ambition to ensure growth of the economy, to have new jobs, to contribute more insurance to have a larger revenue portion in the budget. The thought is only about the outcome of these givens how to reduce the cost of the DEO. Well, how? ▪ By reducing the number of pensioners. That's their philosophy. Ours is the opposite "first," to the current pensioners to ensure adequate pensions that give them at least a small opportunity to live decently for the rest of their lives; to the future pensioners to make sure that by paying their contributions one day they will receive those pensions for which they have been provided; to the people in this transition category, who lack age and internship, to receive a dignified position in society and in their lives. And all of this without compromising the financial stability of the budget of the DVO and the state budget. So the philosophy of our Bill is not financially oriented, but oriented human. First, we must ensure that current and future pensioners, but then this guarantee is supported by financial measures. This is the main difference and I hope that I have convinced you to support our bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. In essence, the debates were opened with the statement made by Mrs. Ninova. Do you have any lines for her statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I allow myself to intervene so that the debate does not go in the wrong direction, as there were several speculations at the end of Ms. Ninova's speech. First of all, no one takes people's money. Ms. Ninova, you are given the right to choose every Bulgarian citizen, so those to whom you have addressed since 1959, and I am somehow among them, you have to tell them: you, my dear, have the right to choose. That's the truth. Nobody gets anything. Secondly, the difference between the two bills is there, only it's somewhere else. The NSI budget is a pensioner's budget. NOI doesn't return money to the state, doesn't keep money in cash boxes. What is imported at the beginning of the month, or one month, is paid next month with a supplement from the state. Then, when we talk about financial strengthening of the NSI, we talk about a resource that can go more to people than the state to save money from them. Except here's the difference. You say in your bill: "Let's take 1 billion, once we increase pensions and freeze everything else. " Frosting is not a change. Frozening is maintaining this poor status quo of pensions that has it right now. I wanted to take the floor to make these two clear distinctions when the debate began. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u32	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u33	Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u34	Mr. Kalfin, what you said was the right to choose the people born after 1959 is disproved by the motives written by yourself to the Bill. In the reasons it says so, a quote: The accumulated funds on the individual accounts of the persons who have chosen insurance only in the funds of the Ministry of Education, the State Social Security, i.e. the person has chosen to be provided in the Ministry of Education, in the NSI, will continue the sentence of the National Social Security Fund, which will be transferred to the so-called "Silver Fund." So the guy chose to get himself into the NOI, but you decided that his money would go to the Silver Fund. You don't ask him if he wants to go there. You transfer them automatically so you can make the fiscal targets the government wants. This one first. Secondly, you probably did not listen carefully to me in the arguments we are not proposing a one-off increase in those contributions that I mentioned. I said in the explanation that we propose to record that the maximum insurance threshold becomes 10 minimum wages and depending on how the minimum wage changes each year, to automatically grow and this. Not every year with the budget to say how much to be the maximum insurance income! Every year with the budget, you can freeze it and not raise it, and the minimum wage can grow every year. Why should the maximum insurance income not grow along with the increase of the minimum wage?! What we're proposing is not a one-time thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. National Representative Mariana Todorova has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of several of the bills, but, of course, I will speak in favour of the project proposed by Mr. Kalfin, as he is the best possible at the moment and is the only consensus. The other projects must also have some merit, but none of them agree with the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. When there is the approval of both trade unions and employers and executives, it is a good basis to seek political consent and political consensus. When you're a good speaker, it's easy to say that you open a common front against the pension system, but when you're a responsible politician, you offer some solutions. One of our colleague's bills proposes only freezing of age and internship for the first and second category until 2017, but no solutions are given. The presentation of the project went into attacks on Mr. Kalfin's project, so it really isn't professional for me. From the stands of the National Assembly to present measures and projects that are not real are not formally written, but are only wishful thinking, is not correct. One of the projects mentioned aims to index only the newly granted pensions by 1.2%, and Mr Kalfin's project foresees a 40 percent increase in the indexation, not only the newly granted pensions, but also the old ones. So when there are no arguments, when they are weak, use political propaganda, I would even say a lie to make false suggestions. From now on, I will pass specifically under the Law of the Council of Ministers. It has been discussed for more than five months in the retirement working group, but the measures that have been seen in it have been discussed for years. They are also discussed in the previous government's team, systematized during the service cabinet and now, within the working group, political agreement is found. But this agreement is very fragile and therefore our proposed Project is only possible. If we change only one of the parameters, the consent will break because either the trade unions will react, either the employers or some of the people in the labor categories. There is no way to compromise with the security sector when for years workers in the third category of work live with the feeling that the burden of reforms falls on them and that there are people who, by retiring at an early age, then have a double source of income. Secondly, I am speaking in favour of Mr. Kalfin's project, because it does not only aim at economic appropriateness, as was wrongfully suggested. It is not true that only pension costs are limited. On the contrary, it also aims to increase the burden of internship and increase pensions themselves, so these measures are taken so clearly and categorically. But it does have an economic effect. Currently, the dependence of the NSI budget on the national budget is around 2 billion. In 2023, thanks to these measures, the dependence will be only 0.9 billion. In 2037 it will be 1 billion. 200 million, but with the difference that really will then be felt the effect of increasing pensions. 2% of gross domestic product cannot go for pensions and deprive some of the opportunities to spend this money on health or education. And Greece has gone from 2 to 3 percent, and today its dependence on the pension budget is 17%, and the state is facing bankruptcy. Specifically on some of the parameters. On the revenue side, we support this smooth rise in insurance contributions by 1% from 2017 and by 1% from 2018, because this will be bearable for both employers and the insured persons themselves, all the more so that both companies and state-owned enterprises expected this increase as it was foreseen in 2017. 2% of these contributions go to universal pension funds. Yes, the difference now is that they are going to the NSI, but pension funds will not be harmed because the 5% contribution to them is one of the highest in the European Union anyway. With the 2% that will go to the NSI, we will stabilize the budget a little bit and release some of the national budget for other expenditures. Here I refer to the Bill of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Indeed, the 3-percent one-off increase in the contribution, with an increase of two per cent for the Fund, and one for the Non-working facility, significantly reinforces the insurance burden. That's about $650 million that needs to come out of people's pockets in just one year. This measure was not discussed in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and would not be supported. It is also controversial for the measure to bind the maximum insurance income to 10 minimum wages. Then none of the employers in the National Council will be willing to increase the minimum wage. As we know, it also has an effect on the ceiling of pensions and on the spending part of the budget. So it is very easy to make some calculations and propose, but to find a preliminary consensus on the National Council and then to seek political support is difficult. This is where I open the clamp, which is presented to us as an alternative pension reform bill by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, is something that has not received support from his own government in 2013! On 8 November 2013, this Bill was viewed at first reading. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy was not present at the time. I'm recreating from the transcript that this is probably an objection, but I don't want to put any other ideas into it. The opinions on this bill are politely negative! So to offer us something as an alternative with a two-year limitation, when your own government has not voted on it and has not reached a second reading, let us not give it to some consistency, but rather to idleness, but this is not our problem. As regards the right of access to pensions and to the income section, there is indeed an increase in age and internship to the age of 65, but it is done in both men and women quite smoothly. Men who are now 64 years old will be the first to retire at 65. They are now retiring about 63 years, even 63 years and eight months, and women are, indeed, more increasing, but, anyway, the average retirement age in women is 62 years and the increase in age and internship in them is done, so that they can have more decent pensions. In addition, women live longer than men by about seven years, so this can be allowed. And when we introduce this age, we must not think that there will be abuse in the system and that wheelchair pensions will expand. We must make it clear that one of the next steps of Minister Kalfin will be to really tighten the disability pension regime. He will also offer many employment programmes for people in pre-retirement age. And complexly all these measures will work. As far as first and second categories of work are concerned, it really increases the age of 3.8 years...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u37	Mrs. Todorova, you may request an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u38	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u39	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u40	...five and ten years old, but a number of privileges remain. The miners will be able to retire at 45 years, if their enterprise is cut short, they will be able to continue to work in a third category of labour. And as far as the security sector is concerned, and that retirement is linked to age there, the starting position is 52 years and 10 months, which is the current average age. And it will only rise to 55 years. And in order not to bleed out the system as worried as it is, there is a proposal that has been discussed for years as well. If a person has 18 years in the system and another 27 years of internship, even if he is currently in third category of work, he can retire under the terms and conditions of first category of work, but most importantly in what is offered in the draft of the Council of Ministers and Minister Kalfin is that he is actually thinking about an increase in pensions with one indexation, which will grow from 1.1 to 1.5% and this will be felt visible over the years. That is the goal, that is, we see that there is not only economic appropriateness, but there is also social impact in this package, and that is why we believe that it is the best and must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u42	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! BSP left Bulgaria does not use the thunderous pension reform to justify its bill, but I believe that we propose expected and necessary changes in the current pension system, expected and necessary for both pensioners and pre-retirement people. What the managers call the "reform" is an attempt to correct somewhere successful, elsewhere not, this model of the pension system that introduced the right a few years ago. Bulgaria needs something much more, but it will not happen now! In order to be objective, I do not deny some of the positives in the government bill: to increase the coefficient for years of service, to index all pensions, to cancel the planned increase in the contribution to pension funds, but along with this there are proposals that condemn especially the people to whom they are due to retire in the coming years, because this model of the pension system is indeed left within neoliberal thinking, here Mr. Siderov was right, including those professional funds, who had to start paying categorical workers showed their inability. I hope the universal funds prove their worth when the time comes to take their share in the pension system. I do not accept the allegations that these changes are the only possible ones. They may be only the possible from the point of view of the current participants in the process who have given their consent, but that does not mean that we cannot make other changes. What is mostly offered? Increases both the retirement age and the service requirement, reaching 65 years in the first case, and for certain cases even 67, and for women and men the required service in the cascade and relatively smooth increase of up to 37 and 40 years. I ask myself: especially in the last two decades, at these levels of unemployment, with this instability in the labour market for a large part of the people this only means a promise that they will never receive a pension for work and age. The fact that there is an agreement between the government, employers and trade unions may be the most serious issue to trade unions, as I know that the government has satisfied all the interests of employers and this is confirmed even by the opinion expressed by the government representatives.. note what it says:. Yes, the profits of the business will decrease from the proposal for 2 percentage points increase in funds in the fund What is even more interesting is that the same opinion was expressed by the National Insurance Institute that it does not support the proposal for that 650 million increase. BGN, due to the increase of the tax burden for employers and insured persons. At the same time, they say: maintaining the current retirement age will increase financial pressure on the pension system. Can you imagine that the heads of institutions who need funds such as the Health Insurance Fund refuse to increase the funds in order to carry out the functions that these institutions have that cover the costs of these important social activities? How could it not lead to the thought of some, otherwise considered to have grown up, productions of the state's cash character, only we need to recall that each country has its own common social purpose, which must be oriented, except in the interests of those who dictate politics, a simple narrow and favorable circle, with all the others who live in this country? I am giving you two examples of the experience of other countries that they are already beginning to reconsider. In Poland, where retirement age is from the highest age of 67, their representatives, our colleagues said: we need to rethink the age issue because it does not solve the problems of the pension system and stimulate the length of work. In neighbouring Turkey, a teacher who has 20 years of internship and has transferred 50 years can retire. What is this parallel? I had to take another route to introduce 20 or 25 years of compulsory service under the general working conditions, which would guarantee a minimum of at least a pension for service, which will receive the person and each year a greater service to significantly increase the amount of this pension. In today's conditions of Bulgaria this should have been the approach and already if you put one age around 60 years, it is enough for people to enter it and be able to receive for what they have earned through their work. This system is not to be viewed as inviolable, because some of its elements will complete their introduction in 2037. The fact that in so many years there have been changes makes it possible for the next parliaments to make important adjustments to what will most likely be adopted today. And the fact that some things have not been accepted in the previous parliament is a fact because we have not been able to raise a majority for the two years of flexible retirement for a shortage of service and age, we have only made these terms for one year. To the previous speaker who spoke, I must remind you that governments are not created to support parties, and parties support governments. If someone has another understanding of political life, the worse, because in the end, governments are about making the commitments that those who choose people support each other, and they already need in this dialogue and interaction to seek the necessary solutions. For this reason, I believe that today, apart from BSP's Bill left Bulgaria and some of the other bills that make certain adjustments, can be useful. If the government bill were more open, so it wants to be supplemented and corrected by some of these proposals, we could have achieved better results, but in the situation we are facing today, we cannot support the Government's Bill because it does not solve the deep problems of the Bulgarian pension system, and most importantly Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Mrs. Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u44	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Today our attention is one of the most important Bills in the work of the Forty- Third National Assembly, namely that of the Council of Ministers, related to changes in the improvement of the pension model and development of the Bulgarian pension system. Many were skeptical that this package of measures would be made by March 31st and, in principle, supported by the social partners. This bill, as has been said, is the result of several months of work by a working group under the patronage of the Social Ministry. There were trade unions, employers, experts. It does not matter that in this working group, MPs from each parliamentary political party were also invited to participate. At the meetings of the working group everyone had the opportunity to present their views, proposals for improvement of the Bulgarian pension model. A comprehensive review of social security legislation was carried out. Many analyses, actuarial estimates by the experts of the National Insurance Institute were presented. The idea was to seek maximum consensus from social partners, political parties on the problems of the Bulgarian pension system, to develop and offer long-term solutions and lasting model in our pension system, which can be protected from subsequent changes in the future, to achieve predictability, security and financial stability of the system. Indeed, in these few months there were different positions and opinions that were discussed, discussed, some of them violently, but ultimately over time these solutions were resolved. I will not dwell in detail on the main proposals that are made in this Bill, because we are all clear. They have been on the lookout for the last six months in the public domain, but it is more important to say the philosophy of change and what they will lead to. More importantly, these changes concern the following, namely what will be the effect on the system further. Three basic principles have been met with content, which is very important to emphasise: sustainability of the system, adequacy of pensions according to the social contribution of the persons, and last but not least, the need for measures. I'll focus on each effect separately. The stability of the system to stabilize the Bulgarian pension system, which in recent years has been faced with serious challenges and difficulties arising as a result of many factors such as demographic crisis, ageing population, serious deficit in the pension fund. These factors have a negative impact on state social security and, in particular, on our pension system. Demographic trends related to ageing, increasing life expectancy and reducing people of working age lead to negative consequences for social security. The big problem of the Bulgarian pension system is related to its instability and uncertainty. It therefore needs financial stability which will lead to an increase in revenue and a reduction in expenditure. It is in this bill that such measures are proposed, which lead to an increase in revenues in the insurance system, which in turn will lead to a reduction in its dependence on the state budget. In this regard are also the proposals to increase the contribution to the Fund by 1% from 1 January 2017 and by another 1% from 1 January 2018. The Bill proposes changes leading to optimization of costs in the insurance system by introducing stricter and fairer conditions for access to pension. The results of the long-term forecast show that after 2015, a substantial improvement in the state social security balance can be expected, with the deficit reduced to 0.4 per cent of gross domestic product in 2029. As regards the adequacy of pensions, the following changes are proposed. From 1 January 2019, a new method of determining the individual coefficient will be introduced when calculating the amount of pension for persons who retire under the conditions of a third category of work as an arithmetic average of the monthly individual coefficients. In this way, the contribution of each person to the insurance system shall be more fairly taken into account throughout the period when it has been provided. In addition, from 1 January 2019 of the formula for determining the amount of the pension, the income requirement of the person on whom insurance contributions have been paid for a period of 3 years of choice before 1997 is removed. From 1 January 2017 a gradual increase in the burden of one year of insurance in the calculation of the amount of the pension until 1.5 percent is achieved. In this way, the pensions already granted will also increase instead of being indexed, as so far, only under the Swiss rule. It is proposed that the maximum amount of newly granted pensions should be abolished from 2012 and that, for those granted by 1 December 2018, their maximum amount should be increased from 35 to 40 per cent of the maximum social security income. With regard to the tolerability of the measures, we provide for a smooth increase in age and insurance service for workers under third-category working conditions, equalisation of retirement age for men and women until 65 years of age. For the third-class workers, we give the right to early retirement by 12 months when they are underage. This would mean that for those who make this choice, their pension will be reduced by 0.4 per cent for each month of underage. With regard to the first and second categories of work, there the changes are more serious and more painful, but at the same time they are imperative, because the truth is that there has been significant delays since 2000 at the retirement age. The current changes suggest a second category to retire three years earlier, and a first category.. eight years earlier than before a third category. Yeah, some say the rock is steeper here, but it's inevitable. For years there has been no political decision to change these categories due to risk or political discontent. A minimum retirement age for employees from the power offices is introduced.. 52 years and 10 months. This age is not randomly chosen, but is comparable to the actual age of which employees in the sector of Security have on average retired last year. A smooth increase in this minimum age is envisaged by two months a year until the age of 55 is reached. This is one of the hot topics that has been discussed in recent months. I am stopping here and I want to stress once again the importance of these legislative changes, because everyone says that changes in the Bulgarian pension system must be there so that it can function reliably and securely. It was difficult, but you see, it was not impossible, despite the skeptical opinions of our opponents. These measures and decisions are an expression of much work, of many meetings, talks, consultations with trade unions, employers and political parties. Everyone made the necessary compromise to employers, trade unions, government for the sake of the stable future and trust of our pension system. After all, an acceptable and good balance of decisions has been achieved which will be protected from subsequent changes in the coming years, I hope. The basic agreement reached by the social and political partners is proof that in dialogue, good solutions are born in the work. I hope that you, colleagues, will appreciate these efforts that have been made to make changes in the Bulgarian pension system happen, you will put aside your political bias in the name of stability, security and predictability of the system. We all have a relationship with the insurance system, we interact constantly and daily with it. At some point, one earlier, another later, we will be users of this pension system. Our decisions today depend on the future of millions of current and future pensioners to be calm, secure and to have higher pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I won't. There's a word for that, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u46	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, the pension system is really in a miserable state, but why did it come to this so we could have a problem in the pension system? It should be started with one of the prides of the right-wing administration. The reform of Ivan Kostov's 2000 government, which they are hardly proud of anymore. After 15 years, we can say that as a result of the absoluteization of right-wing financial stability measures, limiting access to the system and the lack of a complex approach to changes over the years, the most important objectives of this right-wing neoliberal reform have not been achieved. The pension system is in a severe social and financial crisis, accompanied by a serious loss of confidence. The objectives are clearly not met: financial sustainability, increased level of pension protection, better material status of current and future pensioners. The reform has failed. Change is needed. And what are you doing now, Minister? You submit a bill amending the Social Security Code with your understandings and views on changes in the pension system. My assessment of this is that these are rather palliative changes, and all this work resembles the squeezing of the last remaining forces of people who have worked, who have labored dignifiedly, paid their legal contributions, built with deprivation of socialism before 1989 and who barely survive the extremely unfair and solidarity-deprived years of transition. You, the government, are pursuing a stabilization of the system at the expense of the rights of the insured. All proposals in the Law of the Council of Ministers are subject only to fiscal stability and not to the adequacy of benefits and pensions. And the main function of a pension system must be to ensure the protection of elderly people's incomes after their withdrawal from the labour market and to protect them from poverty. It was only then that the financial stabilisation, based on measures to increase revenue and not just to limit expenditure. It is obvious from your proposals, Mr. Minister, that you see only three options for overcoming the huge dependence of the pension system on the state budget. Sorry for the strong words, but this is either incompetence or demagogy, because the main problem of the pension insurance system is the insufficient revenue rather than expenditure. Isn't that obvious from the miserable pensions received by Bulgarian citizens?! And isn't it logical to direct the effort to change precisely to the revenue side?! But when I look at the proposals, it's clear to me that you don't follow that logic. You suggest increasing age and levelling the standard retirement age for a third category of men and women aged 65. Here, I notice, and everyone should notice it - a very exotic proposal that, at the age of 65, an automatic mechanism for increasing retirement age will be introduced for men and women compared to changes in life expectancy. That is, 65 years is not the ultimate goal of your reform to increase the retirement age. How many years are you planning on raising your age?! Tell them so people know. Maybe up to 75 years old. This is the first signal of the neoliberal nature of your proposed changes to have more workers working longer and longer, respectively, to pay insurance contributions, while at the same time fewer pensioners to receive pensions, and a shorter time. Raising retirement age without regard to the low average life expectancy in the country is cynical! The average life expectancy in Bulgaria is about 72 years and is one of the lowest in Europe, which means that if we assume that the average age for retirement in Europe is 65 years, the duration of the pension is about 15 years and in Bulgaria at the same age for retirement the Bulgarians will receive pensions on average 7 years. And you know what people say, Minister? I know because I meet hundreds of people from all regions of the country and I know what they say about the pension system. Maybe the words are strong, but they say, "This is genocide!" And if I allow myself to rephrase a few words there are pensioners, there are problems, there are no pensioners, there are no problems. And have you ever thought that by doing so, your decision to reduce the cost of the pension system by reducing the number of pensioners, leaving them in the labour market longer, would lead to an increase in youth unemployment, naturally. I therefore argue that this proposal of yours is neither economically nor socially, nor demographicly, nor morally justified. Next, your proposal to increase the retirement internship again to the third category of men and 37 women. And this is under the conditions of high unemployment. As a solution, it makes it difficult for thousands of Bulgarians to have access to a pension, but not only that, it also undermines the trust in the pension system. It's not so much an age problem, it's an internship. Age will not matter, because with this unemployment and gray economy, people will not be able to recruit the constantly increasing required insurance service. Let's do another bill. Assuming retirement age is 65 years and the required internship is 40 years, a young person must start working at 25 years and the next 40 years will not have a single day without insurance. So he must not have been unemployed or worked in the gray economy without insurance. Tell me, what is the percentage of Bulgarians who can meet these retirement conditions, and we are aware of how the Bulgarian economy works? The people who have not been spared in one way or another have not been able to accumulate the necessary retirement service............................................................................................... People will only acquire it if they're 67 years old. Thousands of Bulgarians reach the age required for retirement, but have no internship. The reasons are many, but for me the most serious reason is the permanent implementation of neoliberal market policy. Thousands of Bulgarians have lost their jobs and perspectives, and others, even if they work, do not provide them because of the carelessness of the state and the heavily grown grey economy. Most of them are waiting to be 65 years old to take offensively low pensions, from now on they will wait until 67 years that and up. From 1 January 2016, you are introducing retirement age for employees in the sectors of Defence and Security and you will increase it to 55 years. You also change the conditions for retirement of workers under the conditions of first and second categories of work. These changes are again in the direction of making access to the pension system more difficult for you to increase your age and internship. Early retirement of first- and second-class workers is not a problem in itself, so the proposed measures, in this case increasing age and internship, without setting out the scope and conditions for early retirement, are inadequate to people's expectations. No comprehensive solution has been found to the problem of paying pensions to workers under the conditions of the first and second categories, which, in the case of the available pension model, is necessarily going through rethinking the role of occupational pension funds. Those working under heavy working conditions. Miners, police officers, firefighters, all those whose lives are threatened and in danger of fulfilling their duties must not only be early retired, but must also continuously improve their working and working conditions. With regard to the costs of early retirement, there are significant reserves for optimization, without necessarily sacrificing the most vulnerable and working on the ground again. I'm moving on. You intend to raise your insurance of 4.5% for 12 years. In the past 10-15 years, we've reduced them by 14-15 percent, and now 12 years we're going to increase them by 4.5%. This will not happen either, because one of the achieved 'compromises' under the pressure of employers' organisations is this increase to be only 2%. I wonder what they have given up, what compromise employers have made in this case, such as the insurances under the current provisions of the Social Security Code had to increase by 2% from 2017 and you are retiring this raise by 1% from 2017 and 1% from 2018. By the way, this is the other neoliberal mark of the Bulgarian pension system. You offer solutions that are easy for you and difficult for people, for age and internship, for raising insurance, and you are running away from proposals to solve serious problems, such as disability pensions, taking out all the payments that are not available for the insurance system, and these outstanding payments in the pension system are the serious problem in the part of the cost. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] A little more. Another criticism of the logic of your proposals. You lack an integrated strategy and synchronized action with policies from other areas of governance and, above all, macroeconomic and financial policy, employment and income policy, health care and social inclusion, leading to a stabilisation of the system. A reform of the pension system would only make sense if it presented a vision for it in the long term and guaranteed a decent amount of pensions for the current and future pensioners, subsequent financial sustainability and independence, trust in the system to motivate people to pay their social security. The proposals for changes in the pension system of the ruling right-wing quadruple coalition do not show any signs of successful reform. These are temporary and palliative solutions in response to some negative phenomena such as the demographic crisis, the level of income of Bulgarians, the deficit in the pension system and others. Me and my colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will not support the changes you have proposed. We will not support something that people call "genocide." In our amendment proposal, the Social Security Code has proposed an alternative. You heard our motives. I won't repeat them. I would just point out that these are the really sensible left alternatives to the right neoliberal proposals of the ruling quadruple coalition. In the short term, they will not result in a sudden stabilisation of the pension system, but they will not disrupt the current revenue-cost ratio; they will lead to an increase in all pensions by a minimum of 10%, while not raising the already established retirement age. Of course, we are strongly opposed to increasing this age. You will, in all likelihood, reject our proposals in the first vote, but we will also do them in the second vote, on the only adoptions by the majority of the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers. For the finale, if in the majority of four parties formed in the National Assembly, and the four right-wing parties in their essence and actions, there is at least a shred of reason left, you will listen to our criticisms and suggestions. Otherwise, Bulgarian pensioners will not only be the poorest in Europe, but will become even poorer. Thank you. [[Private applause from PFF and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u47	- What's the line? Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u48	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, all this time you've been talking about neoliberal measures, about right, genocide and so on. What is left of your measures after you offer only an index of 1.2% only for newly granted pensions and not for the old ones? For the first and second category in the project where you are an importer, you say nothing, that is, you accept the current conditions of a steep increase of six months. If you had any intentions, you should have written them. Rely on factology and on what you really offered, not what you wanted or want to offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u49	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Gokov, in 1996 I did not participate in the department, but I have quite good memories of how much the pension was back then. I remember that after a really tragic management of BSP was about $3. That's what you had then left a three-dollar pension, and within a few days because there was hyperinflation, it wasn't even $3 on the fourth day. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question that we have put to BSP many times on the right and did not answer: where is the money of the people who spent 45 years saving up for retirement and suddenly turned out to be gone? Where are their savings that you took from them with hyperinflation and you didn't have them, either? Now you're going out to tell us how the pension model, which has been working for nearly 15 years and over, failed. Yeah, he needs changes, he needs improvements, but his pension isn't $3, is it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u51	Third line? A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mrs. Todorova, I doubt anyone in this room can say that these measures you are proposing are not neoliberal, are not right-wing and are not genocide. I don't think there's a guy like that. I don't think he'll deny it. I understand your statement because you want to legitimize your party as a left, but that is not going to happen because you are taking part in a right-wing government, offering right-wing measures and defending them, and voting for them. That's not gonna happen! We don't just offer indexing for new pensions. I can develop the whole theory for you, because in the current article. 70 There is no record that the increase in percentage is only for newly released pensions. But if it bothers you so much, between first and second readings we will make a transitional and final provision and you will understand. Because if it were clear to you, and if you had read carefully, you would have seen that the accounts were made in our motives so that all pensions would be increased between 9 and 10%, and so are the financial estimates in our motives. So speculation is not going to work on that either. Mr. Slavov, where's the people's money? Where's the money, Mr. Slavov, from the privatization of Ivan Kostov? Thirty billion of privatization where did that money go? I may not be able to do the math, but people do. Thirty billion, 30 billion! Where's that money? In BGA, in Kremikovtsi, where are they? I thought this money was supposed to go... Forty-five years, the people who built this socialism and paid their contributions in the total ball, with this money being built, developed the BGA Balkan. Therefore, we, when we were ruling in the triple coalition, created the Silver Fund so that the money from privatisation could not imperceptibly walk in the pockets of one of your people, but help pensions from this fund. But there's no such thing. So where's the money people have to answer for some other people. And when it comes to the fact that someone has done wrong for the Bulgarian pensioners, do you know whose name they mention first? To Ivan Kostov and the government of Ivan Kostov because it made this neoliberal reform. Let's go outside with you in the square and stop ten people retired and ask them who did the worst thing for their pensions? Not Jean Videnov, no, when the pension was $3 when people knew why their pension was $3 and then because Ivan Kostov's reform led them to miserable pensions without knowing why. Because they've worked their whole lives, paid what they were supposed to pay by law, and now they're getting miserable pensions. You can't blame someone who doesn't have one. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u53	Colleagues, I welcome the excitement in the debate and hope to continue at 12.15 after the break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u54	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Before we proceed with the debate, one message. Today, 2 July 2015, it was received and is to be distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code adopted on the first vote on 25 June 2015. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Before the break for speech, the people's representative Petar Slavov was enrolled. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will first say the bills that we will support from the Reformation Block. We will undoubtedly support the bill tabled by us, as well as the bill tabled by our fellow Patriotic Front Members. They, although small bills, are those that solve existing injustices, and I really believe that these categories of persons who look at them should also be supported in order to take measures to protect their social security rights. The main bill, which we will also support the Council of Ministers, will be a little more detailed here and I will mention a few things. First of all, we also welcome the efforts of Minister Kalfin and that our calls were heard, which we spoke at Christmas, when the dispute about the second pension and its transfer to the NSI, that this thing should not be done in this way and that at least after it was done then, it must be corrected. So we see here provisions that we believe solve the problem and really enable people to decide whether they want their second pension to come from the NSI, whether they want to be in a universal pension fund or, if they change their minds, they can fit between one and the other. But, as one colleague used to say, there is no permanent inability for a person to divorce the NOI for life. So this big problem for us sees that it is solved and we welcome this solution. We also understand very well that pension reform is needed and that things are really going the way they have been going in recent years, there is no way to go on. Pension reform obviously includes unpopular measures. I had the impression that, to a large extent, the proposed Draft by the Council of Ministers has achieved the reasonable balance that can actually be achieved between all stakeholders in the process. Obviously, there is no ideal solution that suits everyone 100%, but there is no way for this reform to be concluded and the pension system to work really normally without a smooth increase in retirement age, without a number of other measures that are laid down there without setting a retirement age limit for certain category workers and so on. Something that we have been very fond of and throughout the negotiation process, and on this bill we have said, this is not to increase the contributions to the current legislation. What we see is that one has been called, I will say again, a reasonable compromise, that is, anyway, the increase at stake since 2017 by two percentage points is actually carried elsewhere, and the actual increase in social security should not have the social security burden. These are largely the main aspects that I will mention under the Council of Ministers' Bill. As I said, we will support it at first reading. Between the two readings, of course, we will have our suggestions as well. What we cannot support is to undoubtedly raise the people's contributions to the left, I heard that there were similar calls and desires. Indeed, the situation is such that the social security and tax burden at all is very unreasonable. It could be extremely dangerous. It is hardly necessary to give you the example of Greece what is happening at the moment and such unreasonable management on this unreasonable approach if another and another skin approach is taken down by both self-insuring persons and employers, and so on, what can it lead to? Naturally, we can't accept what I heard again on the left, that not only do insurances want to go up, but they want to raise the maximum social security income, and as far as I heard, the offer was to rise by nearly £1,200. In relation to the current size of BGN 2,600, it will become BGN 3800. In other words, individuals who, I don't know how to put it, may have the indiscretion to be in the bright economy and pay insurance on real income, here there is a desire to be additionally charged with some nearly 400 leva. only from this measure. I don't have any increased insurance here at all. There is also no way to support purely populistic proposals to record numbers in legal acts with desire or with hope, or with I do not know what will happen tomorrow. Obviously increasing pensions and wages is possible when the economy allows it, when productivity grows when there are foreign investments when things are going. And 1,000 leva. Let's record tomorrow that it will become a pension, obviously it can't be paid. By the way, we see that this experiment was also done in Greece and we see what it leads to. I say we don't do it here either. So to conclude, once again, we will support the Law of the Council of Ministers from the Reformation Block, and we will support our bill, and our colleagues from the Patriotic Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Petkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At our attention are seven bills to amend and supplement the Social Security Code. A large part of these bills are primarily cost-oriented. There are also those who try to balance the social security system. This is the project of the Council of Ministers, on which I would like to stop your attention a little bit more. The objectives put in the proposed bill are, first of all, improving the financial situation of the system, and secondly, improving the adequacy of pensions or, in other words, the amount of pensions received depending on the contribution. We must commend the team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute and the social partners for agreeing on the expert part of the proposed changes. However, we must open a clamp and say that this agreement is based on concessions from a preliminary proposed option that leave the impression that they are at the expense of a third category. I am convinced that the team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of the National Insurance Institute, the social partners are convinced that such drastic changes are made with a character based on principles, which is extremely important. In this sense, the feeling that the proposed changes and retreats are more in the style of each person by something.. leaves a certain bitterness on the proposed bill. During the years of transition, the insurance system was put at the service of all other sectoral policies. Not only in the service of sectoral policies, but also in the service of generous political decisions. Now, the moment we report that the insurance system is in a state of waking coma, I use that term because at 9 billion. The 600 million state social security budget for this year, 52.5% or nearly 5 billion are at the expense of the state budget, which means that the insurance nature of our pension model is discredited. This is one of the reasons why more radical solutions can be sought if possible so that the insurance system can nevertheless rely on good financial health, because the proposed changes have a long horizon. I would like to say a few more words about the fact that the mass third category during the years of transition, and especially after 2000, carries the entire burden of reforms. Workers and employees from the third category of work were solidarity with miners, with metallurs, with all who work under conditions of first and second categories of work, with the sector of security and with whom not, and at one point in the foreground came out the feeling of supersolidarity, which cannot fail to become disappointed by the solidity of the model, because when there is supersolidarity, you are already starting to wonder if this model is fair. The feeling of supersolidarity is dramatically contrary to the justice of the system. In any case, this leads to a loss of trust. However, in order for this model to be time-resistant, which is proposed, and these are a package of measures to improve the pension model and develop the pension system, in addition to expert consent, it is very important that there is political agreement. Unfortunately, to date, this political agreement is particularly fragile, even within the four political forces that support today's Bulgarian government. Why am I saying this? Because the idea of the proposed package of measures is to be sustainable over time. Therefore, the horizon is long enough to 2037. If these changes are not now supported by a sufficient number of MPs or political forces, the sustainability of the proposed changes in the coming years is at stake. I know that in a parliament with eight political forces it is difficult to reach political agreement, but it is mandatory at least for the parties that support the government, and when that does not happen, dynamic majorities are imposed that shake the ruling coalition, and in order not to come to this type of support political parties that are in the ruling majority, they must be at the height of their responsibilities. I say all this because the proposed package has a long time horizon from 2016 to 2037. The characteristic of this whole period is that the system, despite a tendency to reduce the deficit throughout the period, will be in a deficit condition. Started at the beginning with a deficit of 2.4% of gross domestic product, as of 2023 is the best indicator -- it becomes 0.9% of gross domestic product, and by the end of the period is already 1.2% of gross domestic product or, in other words, expenditure is planned to be reduced by half a percentage. All that is proposed by the team of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, of the National Insurance Institute and social partners is generally in the right direction, but there are also risks. Risks are in the direction that this financial stability is extremely dependent on demographic characteristics, dependent on economic growth. Therefore, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have always stated that there is no such measure, or such a package of measures that can with a magic wand solve the long-standing problems of the insurance system. These problems can only be solved with serious investment potential, serious investments.. domestic and external, increased employment, increased income and income on the insurance system. Everything else has been proposed with risk potential. I would like to emphasise this specifically, i.e. the key to solving the problems goes through serious economic growth, through high incomes, high levels of employment and hence high revenues in the social security system with subsequent high levels of social protection. My fellow Members, there is one very important element in the proposed package of measures and it is the possibility of increasing the amount of pensions, i.e. improving the effectiveness of pensions by 40%. It is about measures that are offered through the coefficient, during the service, during the internship, around 2027 the amount of pensions to be increased by 40%. Here the question arises immediately that the dominant in this proposal is the insurance internship. It is true that the insurance income also participates in the formula for calculating the amount of the pension, but it seems that the two more important parameters are age and internship. The insurance income remains in the background. Again, it also has to do with calculating the amount of pension according to the formula. The main risks come from the gap between the scope and the horizon of the proposed changes. It is clear that a smooth increase in age and internship is justified in terms of social tolerance, because the same generation of those in the third category carry all the weight since 2000 on their backs. Mostly the changes are at the expense of third-category employees. Again, a smooth increase in age is socially acceptable, but in any case, if we proceed, as in the proposal of the Council of Ministers, then it is difficult to rely on a faster balancing of the social security system. Dear colleagues, I would like to give a few examples of real reality. They're very indicative of what I said. In 2014 the real retirement age in Bulgaria was 57 years and 6 months. The real age of all categories of work in Bulgaria is 57 years and 6 months. This is based on information from the National Insurance Institute. In the European Union, European citizens on average retire at 62 years old. However, when we remove the group of categorical workers from all pensioners, those who benefit from early retirement, Bulgarian citizens who retire under third category work, they have an effective retirement age of 62 years and 9 months, i.e. around the average levels for the European Union. This suggests that the measures proposed by the Ministry of Labour, the Council of Ministers, the National Insurance Institute and social partners are in the direction of balancing the system with sharing responsibilities between different categories. The next thing I want to say is a few words about the security sector. The actions and measures around this system have been extremely relevant lately, but we should thank our colleagues in the sector - Security - that after long meetings and discussions that began many years ago, they matured to the thought that there should be an increase in retirement age for them as well. Because it's in their best interest. Why is it in their best interest? They are now effectively retiring at the age of 52 years and 8 months. The minimum retirement age offered for them is 52 years and 10 months, which plan to grow planically by 2 months a year. What does that mean? This means that the greater their contribution as an internship and as an age, the amount of the pension they will receive will be greater. Notice, fellow Members, that when recalculating their insurance service, they will have the opportunity to benefit from a higher coefficient, respectively, from a larger amount of the pension they will receive. Of course, the price of this already accepted minimum age is extremely high. See what this is about. It is out of the question of retiring in this system if you have gained two thirds of your internship, even if you work somewhere in another system, you can benefit from the right to retirement. There is a grace period for those who by the end of this year meet the conditions for the next three years to be able to retire. Of course, here they also have another requirement that this grace period applies to everyone else. There is, however, another measure that applies to those born after 1960. It enables workers and employees in the sector of security to transfer the funds from their individual accounts when they have received an early pension, because the amount of this pension is 28% lower the pension they receive from the DEA, they have the opportunity to transfer the funds from their individual accounts once to the NSI, to the DCI's budget and to receive the entire amount of the pension and not to wait until the retirement age for a third category. This is a wonderful opportunity, but this opportunity, if in the short term it gives additional revenue in the DVO, and in the long term it has negative effects on the DVO budget. A few words about the categories of workers. For the first category, an increase in age is proposed so that it reaches 10 years less than the retirement years for the third category, i.e. 55 years and for the second category by 5 years earlier, i.e. up to 60 years. I'd like to say a few words here now. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! What is proposed for the first category is that the increase in age should be by two months a year. What is offered for underground miners and those who retire under the conditions of art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Labour Code, understand when reducing and eliminating the enterprise, when reducing the state, for them the increase in age, albeit up to 50 years, is by 4 months. That is, for the first category the increase is 2 months and for the underground miners and for those to whom it refers. 328 of the Labour Code, the increase is 4 months. Here we need to think, perhaps between first and second reading, to help people who retire in these difficult conditions. And a few words that I'm gonna finish with. From 2017, the rate for each year of insurance service increases by a percentage equal to or greater than the Swiss rule to 1,5%. This means that a 40% increase in pensions is planned, as I said just now, somewhere around 2027. With regard to changes in the second pillar. Honourable Members, what arose as an extremely serious problem at the end of last year, when the changes were adopted, the question was about the free will of those insured to be able to transfer funds on individual accounts repeatedly to the DVO budget and from there to be able to transfer them back to individual accounts. Now it is allowed for those who have rights under the second pillar to transfer funds to the Silver Fund and then, but no later than 5 years before retirement age, to be able to return to private pension funds. I end here with the hope and desire, although it is not part of this Bill, and to put your attention to the issue of providing farmers, because there, under the current conditions, if what is proposed for next year is being violated the labour paradigm. In other words, this means that the funds they receive from the production made, including the funds from European assistance, are not sufficient to cover their social security contributions. I hope that this issue will find its solution within the budgetary procedure at the end of this year. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u58	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u59	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u60	National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. Before his speech, let me inform you that upstairs, on the balcony, our guests are members of the Society of the invalid from the village of Rusalya, Veliko Tarnovo. Please welcome them! [[People's representatives rise up and applaud the guests.]] You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is nice when people who really understand this matter speak. It is bad, however, when people who understand this matter do not tell the facts as they are. The patriotic front, of course, will support some of the draft laws, we will support the bill of colleagues from the Reformation Bloc, we will support Mrs. Maya Manolova's Bill, we will support the bill of colleagues from.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The main focus today in this discussion is actually the legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, which is widely promoted in society as a pension reform. Dear Minister, we from the Patriotic Front have done a very serious analysis of this bill. We believe that, on such a really serious bill and with so much work being put into it, we should also take seriously and respectfully, with respect, at least to the expertise involved in this bill, with respect to the fact that there really was a working group, which for the most part was a speech that I left it for. However, there is one final product that is of our attention. But what is the reason why we are debating this bill today? First of all, it was an attempt at some strange reform and an attack on the second pillar. This is the truth. something that created an extremely public tension and practically at the moment we have a dead text in the Code of Social Security, a missing regulation and some money that is private property located in the accounts of the NRA and continuing to damage Bulgarian citizens. However, when we are looking at such a serious bill, which concerns the future of millions of Bulgarian citizens, we must say a few important things that I expected some of the speakers to say. The first important factor, honourable Members, is that there is no other country in Europe where the tax burden on citizens exceeds 70%. This is the first serious fact. This fact puts on the scales the attempt to balance this system and increase confidence in it. The second very serious fact is something that I don't know why no one is concerned about is that to date, 0.8% workers must withstand 1.3 unemployed. And don't believe the allegations that someone will tell you that this ratio is the exact opposite. That's not true. There are official data published by the NSI. They are eloquent and when you see that this system really accumulates a continuous deficit, you must approach with determination and find where the buffers are. I would be, for example, extremely pleased if I could see in parallel with these proposals of yours, Dear Minister, a determination by the Council of Ministers, which should have long ago, for example, introduced the so-called "power management." Hundreds of millions of euros have been invested in the cloud system. This system had, first of all, to unload the Bulgarian state from a huge expense, which is expressed in the support of a bloated administration - state and municipal, which, on top of everything else, does not contribute in any way to the pension insurance system. She thus had to unload the Bulgarian business from additional administrative expenses, apart from the tax insurance burden that the business must bear. However, not only do we not see such an approach, we even see that this topic has stopped talking. What are we doing today? We're taking on another absolutely traditional model. This model that you're offering us today, what is it? It is an exclusion of as many people as possible who have contributed to the pension system from the possibility of enjoying it in the future. Because, honourable Members, by increasing the internship to 40 years of age, with a missing system that she has archived, which she has collected, to have read this internship to a large part of Bulgarian citizens, I hardly need to remind you that a large part of those present before 1989 worked in state enterprises; I hardly need to remind you that these enterprises have long ceased to exist. However, how many of you know that payrolls, which are one of the main sources of proof of employment and insurance, are missing in the archives? They're missing. There are no such records created, and in some municipalities they still continue to burn their stoves with such important documents, as strange as it may seem. Sjec, with the increase of the insurance internship, you have already condemned a huge part of the Bulgarian population to retire under very different conditions. I'll give you an example to find out. If you have 34 years of service, even with the opportunity given to you to buy five years of insurance service, you will be granted the right to retire in 15 years of effective insurance service, and the remaining 19 years will be given to the system. So you're a donor. And whether you have provided yourself on two, three or 10 thousand leva income, you are just a donor who will get the opportunity to receive a pension in the size of 150-160 leva. Now that's unfair. On this occasion, this bill is not only not working. On the contrary, the distrust of the solidarity model is strengthened. But that's not the scariest part. It is a scary thing other than that in the years we have witnessed several attempts at pension reform. And with each of these attempts, it turns out that our fathers and mothers retired were getting more and more hurt. Unfortunately, this proposed Bill does not provide for the structure of the population, which suggests that after eight years this system, which is being offered to us today, will be a serious explosion, for the simple reason that the system will be unable to pay pensions. Eight years, remember that date. Eight years! In eight years, the system won't be able to pay pensions. I mean, people will be severely harmed. And here follows the other incomprehensible logic and approach, another blow to the capital market, on this market, called a private second pillar, which should give the only security to the people. Where people know how much money they have, they know it's their money, they don't get lost. They can be inherited. And more to bring extra income. What does the so - called choice offer today? The so-called.. choice offers another constitutional violation of private rights, that is to say, trespassing on private property, which is inviolable, transferring your money to the Silver Fund, where you will have neither income nor nothing. And here follows the thin approach. The five percent you are being paid will go to the so-called "Fund" "Pency," but you will never be able to get them back. Here we are already asking the question: is there a free choice, or is there no free choice? You can have a free choice if you have two or three things to choose from. In fact, if I ask you now: Do you know and can you calculate the amount of your pension, I highly doubt that much of the people present can do so. But Mr. Ademov didn't mention any other components in the formula for calculation, which allegedly predicts a 40% increase in pension! Not at all! Such a thing cannot happen with this formula, which is applied. This is absurd! I will give you an example that the insurance income for the country in recent months has decreased and it is one of the components for calculating the pension. The same happens with the average wage for the country, which is also falling. So how are we going to get that 40% increase? The mathematics is an exact science. It can't happen. That is, there are a lot of unexplained things here that are practically damaging the future Bulgarian pensioners. But let's go back to private pension funds. This debate started with them. I cannot understand, for example, what kind of approach will they have when this bill brings a cruel blow to private pension funds, cruel! Even an administrative approach to transfer funds into the NSI system is envisaged. Administrative approach! Which of you will guarantee how you will express your free choice employees in the state and municipal administration that something is not clear to me? They're gonna express it some other time! In addition, in the Bill, we are witnessing an agreement, we will take the two percent that must be given by law to the pension funds, and with them we will compensate the employers because they have to import them so that we can increase the insurance contributions. It's an extremely vicious approach, exceptional! I was in the first working groups, I saw with my own eyes the disagreement of both pension insurance companies and trade unions and employers. Interesting: what kind of bargaining was being conducted to achieve this consensus at some point? A bargain on the back of Bulgarian citizens! Unacceptable! Unacceptable! It is for this reason that we will not support the bill because it is against the Bulgarian citizens, there is no systematic approach, there is no economic analysis and in no way leads to so widely proclaimed and promoted pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! As colleagues have already declared, the Reformation Block Group will support the Law of the Council of Ministers. Since a significant part of the arguments that my colleague Bajraktarov put forward, we can share, and we cannot definitely share the conclusions, I have taken this statement in order to bring a little more clarity to the position of the Reformation Block and the merits of the proposed bill. First of all, I would like to strongly support Dr. Ademov in the part of his speech that the changes in the pension system should seek not a majority in the National Assembly, but a broad consensus as far as possible. When we opened the current session of the forty-third parliament, on behalf of the Group of the Reformation Block, we said just that in relation to the three major reformers' packages that enter the parliament and which we will consider in this session, and we are already looking at: the pension system, the health system and justice. Three spheres that must seek maximum broad agreement because they are not subject to rapid change in the inevitable change in democracy of majority and governance in parliament. For most right-wing voters, for most of the reformer bloc's sympathizers, I am convinced and often see it as an opinion, and I believe that for most of GERB's voters too, this project seems insufficiently brave. However, he is smart enough to ensure that those who are voting against him in this Parliament will not change him in the next, as, by the way, many times has happened in the pension system. The most under attack measures actually remain very lasting after a completely different majority and governance. I will remind you of the attacks on the notorious dot system, which was then stored for a period of 10 years by those who attacked it, and for which we are all regretting it at present. A compromise is good when the advantages are more than the disadvantages. We, after a very serious public, expert and political discussion, are offered a compromise bill where the advantages are much more than the disadvantages. First of all, a bill that provides for clear progress in each of the painful areas of the pension system, excluding one of those related to disability pensions, which is the subject of a subsequent legislative initiative and a public and expert discussion that is currently under way. Both in terms of retirement age and in terms of pension internship and in terms of equalisation of male and female retirement age, and in terms of the problem of disadvantaged treatment in a positive or negative way of different public groups in terms of their pension rights, and in terms of the chronic problem with categorical workers and the unsuccessful model in terms of occupational pension funds, the draft proposed by the Council of Ministers makes significant steps forward. I am deeply convinced that some of these steps are insufficient, but taking in the right direction, breaking the fear of changing anything at all will enable the present or subsequent majorities, the current or subsequent governments, if necessary, in some areas it will inevitably be found to take the next step in the right direction, without fearing that they are the ones who break the taboo. Because we have been living in constant fear for ten years and more in this area what negatives will be borne by the one who broke the taboo first. This in this case took over Minister Kalfin, took over the current Council of Ministers, and I believe he will also take over the majority in the Forty-third National Assembly. We will do the work he will use and will be continued by further governments. Several remarks that make our support very much conditional on the second vote on this bill. There are shortcomings that are difficult to overcome if they remain at second reading in their present form. First, as regards the second pillar of pension insurance and universal pension funds (UPPs). It's good to hear the sensible voices from December last year. It is good that that blocked text that we voted on then, together with the budget, is already unblocked and will be able to work in some form. It is bad that the solution that is proposed is long-term, dangerous and unsustainable. It brings meaning to people born between 1960 and 1970 with regard to people whose social security history in universal pension funds is incomplete, who suffer from the extremely low contribution to the RFF in the early period of existence of these funds and the overcosts incurred in the work of universal pension funds in the first years of their existence. I accept that those born through this decade must have the right to choose, and this choice is well formulated with both the right and the opposite choice, and by blocking the funds from their accounts in the Silver Fund, which will prevent their immediate spending of immediate fiscal targets, which was the great risk that we alarmed in December. It is true, however, that with regard to the Bulgarian citizens born after 1970 who will have a complete history of insurance in the second pillar, a more reasonable solution should be found, a more reasonable form of choice to guarantee the capital element in their social security rights while avoiding the risks and disadvantages of the system that we have faced at this time. I am calmly voting at first reading this Bill, as I have the assurances of Minister Kalfin that on the rise of the handicaps of the second pillar is currently actively working in his ministry. This means, accordingly, that, with the face of these problems, we can also seriously think about an option where citizens after 1970, without suffering from abuses and irregularities in the second pillar of their provision, are guaranteed, because this is also a guarantee for state fiscal stability, not only for them personally, that they will be protected from demographic processes that are constantly reducing the chances of a sufficient substitute income from the pension coming from the solidarity pillar. The same applies to the reduction imposed on the pension from the solidarity pillar on those who choose to retire through a universal pension fund. The overall philosophy of the changes in the Social Security Code that are offered to us, the overall estimate, which is a really indecently long-term and allows for a serious planning of public finances by 2037, makes it very clear that Bulgaria cannot even consider removing the 12-percent contribution of the state to the National Insurance Institute on the income of all working persons. Once we recognise that this is not a temporary subsidy but a permanent, necessary and in a 20-year period a definite inevitable contribution, we must think of the state as an insurance provider. This isn't a dotation anymore. It's an element of insurance. This automatically means that people born after 1960 who are provided in a universal pension fund, at the moment they retire, should receive not 28% but a maximum of 15.6% reduction on their pensions from the solidarity system. This is a proposal that we will submit between first and second readings, and we will hold an ultimatum, because the other means robbing 13% of the pension of every Bulgarian born after 1960 and taking away every element of justice in and anyway not too fair a pension system. So with the agreements we made with regard to first and second readings, we will support and believe that this is a bill worth the support of both the majority and the opposition in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. [[Applause from SG to RB.]] - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Kasabov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor on one of the proposals, which made a pretty strong impression on me. This proposal is the proposal of the colleagues from "Attack." It's about the long-stretched minimum pension of 500 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u66	By the bill, you mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u67	Yeah, under the bill. He's here, in front of me, there he is. I can read it to you. This is a wonderful offer and I ask: why 500 leva.? Why not 700, 850 or 1000 leva?? The Bulgarian pensioner deserves this pension. And from here on, I imagine the following picture, given that the Bulgarian Parliament voted these amounts was 500, was 1000 BGN.: Joyful Bulgarian pensioners together tighten the suitcases and leave for a holiday on Varadero, whether in Paris in Le Morris or in the hotel "King George." Why not somewhere else on the South Black Sea coast? Happy, happy something that we all want; something that some of the richer Bulgarians have experienced. What's more, we're going to support, say, the economy of brotherly Cuba, but from here on out, what's going on? It turns out that it has to rise by 76% and the ceiling of the pension, that is, there is 920 BGN, which means that people who receive a large pension should take about 3 thousand BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u68	Time! Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u69	And when we look at it, we'll see that a lot of people will be long, long happy for a few months.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u70	You're running out of time, Mr. Kasabov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u71	And these few months will be no more than 4-5 because by then the state will be bankrupt, because it will only take over 30 billion for pensions. And we enter the spiral of the Syriza. From now on, Sirisa left them without a shirt!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Naydenov, come in. You have one minute and twenty-four seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u73	Yeah, some kind of time race! I take the floor, of course, within these about 70-80 seconds, to say that I feel the moral responsibility to state my position that I will not support the proposal to introduce age as an additional condition to the condition of a certain internship for the retirement of employees in the security sector and, in particular, the servicemen. I have wondered many times since 2012 what drives specialists, experts, the initiators of this proposal to do so, and I find no answer to this question. Because if it is in terms of seeking equality with other categories of citizens, servicemen are required for age and this is the age of 27 years plus a maximum age of 54 to 62, i.e. they qualify for internship and age. If this is from the point of view of equality in terms of rights, me, see 12 are rights: civil and political, for soldiers who are taken or who are limited, that is, by definition, there is no such equality between the categories of citizens. And, of course, if you are looking for a model in other countries, tell me which country has such a requirement. I have explored and been a representative in plenary 17 countries.. 12 NATO and 5 NATO non-members. In only two there was a similar requirement as we introduce in Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. Then why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u74	Your time is up, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u75	Unfortunately, but, of course, at second reading I will do, I will present more arguments. I'm looking for the answer to the question: why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u76	At second reading, maybe you'll answer. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Siderov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, unfortunately, with this very important topic, in these very important debates, I have not heard a serious analysis and answer to the question: why is it called pension reform? With this pompous title are actually entitled a series of minor amendments, which are entirely in the style of the colonial rule of Bulgaria so far? Pension reform, Mr. Kalfin, would be if you abruptly, categorically and very strongly break away from the Chilean system in which Bulgaria was introduced in 1999 under the rule of the fellow parties, who will now support your amendments, by the way. In 1999 a model was introduced in Bulgaria called Chili, which was experimented in Chile, but, notice, after a few years in Chile it was removed. In 2008, he was removed, wasn't he? What does the Chilean model consist of? Private pension funds enter, start collecting people's money, start paying huge salaries and dividends and playing with securities. When it comes time to pay pensions, however, the state pays. I'm saying it most schematically. I can talk a lot of time about this model and criticize it, but now I'm saying the pattern we're working on. This scheme was invented by the so-called pygmy boys. The monetaryists of Friedman, and she began experimenting first in the backyard of the United States. Then another U.S. backyard opened up in Eastern Europe after the changes, and experiments began here, i.e. in Eastern Europe. However, what happens in countries where there is government leadership with the thought of their people, such as Hungary? How many times have I shown it to you, I give it to you again, take an example from there. In 1999 and there was introduced the Chilean model, now 10 years later they remove this model, remove private pension funds and pensions only go to the state insurance system. The same is happening in Poland and Slovakia. These are countries that we otherwise point to as an example as the same from the Eastern Block, which, however, had pulled more than us. Why did they pull more than we did? Because they have more determination. That is why pension reform would be called both me and my fellow Members, if it were really a reform. If you say, as has been said here earlier, that you are making a severe blow to private pension funds. A panty protector of private property before me came out and said you were hitting the private pension funds hard. Unfortunately, you don't. You'd get our support if you did, but you'd leave them. There you must leave the money to the Bulgarians, after which they had some freedom to return to the state system. In order for reform to be a real reform, it should be a state system in which every Bulgarian has his own individual account, which can monitor and see where his money is, how much he is and what pension to expect. What's hard about it, why don't you work it out?! Why should private pension funds take the money of the Bulgarians, with them to buy government debt, countries to enter into debt?! Poland raised its public debt by 20% after introducing private pension funds. Then he gave up on them, but it was too late. You can't get out of this cycle. I saw some timid attempts at the end of last year, but immediately you were pulled back, perhaps your coalition partners. They sometimes act as a weight on your legs and pull you down. Break away from them, take a more decisive step, take Orban's step, take the step of the Poles, give up the Chilean system and turn the Bulgarian pension system into a true Bulgarian pension system. We're opposition. A complete reform is offered when you're in charge. We are not in charge, so we are proposing separate amendments, which are symbolic, which are a base, on which we can step. I will pass with absolute contempt the ironic remarks on the occasion of our proposal to raise the minimum pension sharply the basis on which the pension is already set to be sharply raised because it has to start from somewhere really. What you're suggesting, and you said it yourself in your own exhibition, that in 10 years' time, the pensioners will actually be poorer. That's pretty much what you said, isn't it? At least there won't be any progress. Well, why do you call it a pension reform? What to expect after 10 years, after 15 years even lower pensions, even more impoverished layers and even more hopelessness, because things will have deteriorated? In order not to make things worse after 10 years, now you have to step on a solid basis. What is it? The question of where the money will come from for a higher pension base is not a question if you really make decisive reforms. They will come from where we have pointed out many times a reform of the economic system itself, exiting the colonial scheme. You said, "Let's shut down the foreign companies." It's not about shutting them down, it's about profiting them. They have to pay more than they do in Poland. To pay as much as it takes for the Bulgarian pensioner to have something to receive. Let's get our gold deposits back, because billions of dollars of profit are leaking out of there, and some of them can be put into the social system. Here are the ways, they are real and executable. I know it's hard, but it's easy to have rabbits, as the people say. The difficult decisions are for the heads of state, the rest is colonial governance, which seeks in no way to anger any foreigner, ambassador, owner of a large company or one who wins on the back of the Bulgarian people, but thus from a crisis and from a low standard is not coming out. From a low standard comes out with decisive measures, with the termination of the financial pyramids, which are called private pension funds, with the provision and construction of a state system behind which the Bulgarian state can stand with all its assets and guarantee the Bulgarians that it was born in 1959, 1960, 1970, that in the future it will receive what it will be able to monitor all the time. Only such a system would make people believe both in politics and in the state and in the system and in their own lives, let's put it this way. Everything else is a game of politics, everything else is a game of reforms. Mr. Kalfin, I know you yourself don't have the options, maybe the determination. I've seen you in other positions of the Foreign Minister who signed the humiliating treaty with the United States for free military bases. I know that you do not have this determination to really reform the pension system. Unfortunately, however, I do not see in this House any other political forces, as I said, and a serious analysis and determination to break up with the colonial system. Getting out of the Chilean system and moving on to European is our call. We have the idea of this, we have developed it in a very serious text. We have the idea, we have the energy and the opportunity to do it. The other is in the hands of the Bulgarian voter, who, by the way, also good and bad to live one day becomes retired. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Are there any lines from the groups that have time? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Before going to the vote, the word asked for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House, today's discussion has been indicative. The subject is important, there are different opinions on it. I am grateful to anyone who expressed his opinion in support and in difference with what we propose from the Council of Ministers. I respect anyone who speaks with arguments. Of course, I also heard a personal attitude, empty phrases and quite unargumented opinions, but this must be part of the parliamentary debate. I would like to ask the Council of Ministers before you vote, and I hope that we will continue to work on these bills, especially the one that brought in the Council of Ministers, to have one more time in mind that it is a product of agreement. Not in bargaining, but at seven months of open dialogue, in which all those who are involved could participate, in which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute made thousands of calculations on each proposal. Whoever had a proposal that brought it in, we tested it, considered it, evaluated its effect, discussed it in public and in public. So there's no haggling here. There is an agreement and a desire to change a system that applies to everyone and which does not work. Whether it's more radical or less radical here you're saying, "This reform is the same because it supports the 2000 system." Yes, but those who say that have had the opportunity to rule at least twice since 2000. And no one thought about changing it then. And I think we shouldn't change an important system in ten years, like retirement. It's better to fix where there are weaknesses, to look for flaws than to destroy everything and start doing it again. And if we are seeking consent, it should be sought on this basis. I have heard various proposals that claim revolution and a different approach. They actually come down to the same thing - reducing requirements, reducing from the current age to even lower, from the current service - even lower, and increasing pensions. Believe me, that's not gonna happen. I think I know something about finance, but you don't have to do this thing. I don't understand magic, and I don't know how you reduce the requirements of age, internship, and you increase pensions. Right now, because there's a lot of talk about internship, I think there's something very clear to be said. Currently the men's third category retirement internship is 38 years, today. On the offer we have, 40 years from now, it will be in 12. Last year at the end compared to this year the increase is six months. What we're proposing is three times less increase than what's going on so far. So when you talk about 40 years of internship for men, someone has to say why today is 38 years. And then let's recalculate who's how old they are, how many years they've worked and so on. Thirty-eight years! And I haven't seen a single proposal in the last 15 years to say: "Let's reduce the requirement for internship. I've seen requests for freezing, I've seen different things to postpone, but not one proposal to reduce. Suddenly this comes out as a magical solution. That's not gonna happen! Yes, there was a gray economy, but we can't take it as a fact and stimulate it. I assure you that the government is doing everything it can, and it is responsible for what it offers. It is not an easy decision, not by chance so many times has been avoided by different governments. We have our responsibility, we have our responsibility to collect revenue in the country. You see, since the beginning of this year, revenues, including in the social system, have been quite increased compared to last year. This means commitment, work and really showing results that can be measured with numbers. Once again, thank you for all your opinions. I hope when you vote, you don't think about populism. Every argument I've heard, I'm ready to come up with numbers and show why what we're proposing is reasonable, as long as, of course, there's a desire to hear. Society hears. The unions heard. The employers heard. The people I keep meeting with are miners, policemen, security people, hear and understand these arguments. They see that what we are proposing is much better for them than the current system, which guarantees further poverty for pensioners in its preservation, or some total change that no one is clear from where to start it and where to end it. So the proposal we're making, I think there's a good enough response in society. I hope parliament will show what each of the parties says when it comes to elections more important to the state issues to seek agreement. The effects of the change we're making now, name it however you want, will result in the next 15-20 years. They will start next year, but the full effects will develop in the future. We're not doing anything we can't see the result of. Appreciate it, think of your election promises, think of national issues to seek consent. Remember that over the last seven months each proposal has been discussed very carefully. Everything that came to anyone's mind has been judged. Then vote, I hope, in favour of this Bill, which is in the interest of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Any other MPs to take part in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importers Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. Vote 169 MPs: 26, against 88, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Switching to the vote of the second Bill of Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. Vote 180 MPs: 54, against 63, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importers Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. Vote 153 MPs: for 145, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the next Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. They voted 175 MPs: 63, against 22, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u81	Madam President, I want a revoting because there were colleagues who failed to vote and I think that not all colleagues from GERB understood that they should support this bill because it is good and does not in any way harm either the National Insurance Institute (NSI) or the budget. On the contrary, it introduces a justice which is under Convention 71 of the International Labour Organisation. It takes several votes to support the bill. Nothing bad's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u82	Revoting! Vote 173 MPs: 64 against 34, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. The next bill for amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code is with importer Mr. Velizar Enchev. We are voting on Mr. Enchev's bill. Vote 168 MPs: 47, against 76, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers. We are voting on the Law of the Council of Ministers. Vote 169 MPs: 115 against 35, abstention 19. [[Applause from GERB.]] The motion is accepted. Welcome for a negative vote on the Law of the Council of Ministers, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u83	Dear Madam President, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I understand the joy of the coalition, which is centre-right with a patriotic and left-wing taste, but I would like to share my great concern and objection on the proposal of the pension reform, so-called, but rather a package of proposals for amendments to the Social Security Code with the following arguments why I voted against. You all know that the 25-year transition gave an extremely wild labour market, an unfair labour market. Many people, including those you represent, know that they did not have the opportunity to work under labour law, legislation, and in fact they did not have the opportunities for internship and insurance. Along with this, you are certainly aware that what we have now voted on will be extremely socially unfair in view of their pensions and their pension support. Particularly great is the burden on the categorical workers, the underground workers and I think that here we underestimated the burdens that will be on the Bulgarian woman. The biggest pressure that has been reported by the trade unions, and you are all aware that in this period of time with the increase of age and with four months each year will be unfair to the Bulgarian woman. In a good economic time, in a good labour market, I think it could be good. I now voted against it with the clear conviction that these are currently additional social burdens.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u84	I put to the vote the last Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code submitted last at the time, to Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. They voted 149 MPs: 33, against 72, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We're going back to: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TROAD On yesterday, we voted on the change in art. 328, para. 1, t. 10. Mr. Ademov, §16 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u85	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Kanev, Georgi Gokov, Zhelyo Boychev and Cornelia Ninova, § 16 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u86	Statements? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u87	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, as importers between first and second readings, we have proposed that this text be rejected. It is in line with the opinion of trade unions, employers, mother organisations who disagreed with the text proposed by us. In general, their arguments that this text takes away the rights that have already been given to them. They disagreed, we took it into account and proposed to the importers that the text be removed. Please support our proposal § 16 to be rejected, as it takes rights, according to these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u88	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u89	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, in relation to § 16, on the day before and yesterday, we have had a lengthy discussion and we are inclined to support the proposal to dismiss § 16, as we believe that this protection in disciplinary dismissal should remain. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u90	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Kanev, Georgi Gokov, Zhelyo Boychev and Cornelia Ninova to drop § 16, which was actually supported in the Chamber by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 118 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 17 by importer. Before that, however, there is a proposal for a new paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u91	Proposal for a new § 24. That's a reference. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 402, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 404, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u92	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 24 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u93	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 404 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. A special sign indicating the enforcement measure applied shall be added at the end and administrative liability shall be held in the event of its unauthorised removal. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall lay down by regulation the rules for placing and graphical representation of the sign under para. 1, t. 3.................................................................................. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words speak. 1 of the preceding paragraph. 1, t. 1.................................................................................. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it, the words "the previous paragraph' shall be replaced by "al'. 3.................................................................................. 5. The so-called al. 4 and 5 respectively become paragraphs 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u94	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 25 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u95	According to § 18 there is a proposal of the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev, § 18 to drop out. The proposal in the course of the discussion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made on...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u96	It was withdrawn in writing by letter No 554-00-625 of 24 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u97	It's withdrawn in writing. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 26. But with this withdrawal, there's got to be a redeployment?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u98	That's right. Do you have a new edit?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u99	The new version is in the text of the importer. Isn't that right? Once the proposals have been withdrawn, the text of the importer remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u100	The text of the importer remains. Colleagues, on Mrs. Angelova's proposal in the meeting and the report of the Commission, it is supported by the original version of the importer for not applying the text of art. Art. 136a, 138a and Art. 136a. Article 181 shall not apply. Art. 138a. 181, which was Mrs. Angelova's proposal. Once it withdraws this proposal, I will put to the vote and the Commission's version, which cannot remain in the case of a withdrawn proposal, and from an argument to the contrary, it follows that we should support the importer's text. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] Okay. I put to the vote the proposal for amendments to § 18, which becomes § 26 in the Commission report, I repeat, which was then in line with Angelova's proposal, which has been withdrawn at this time. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 17 against 60, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Since the Commission's version has not been adopted, I should put to the vote § 18 by importer, which will become § 26. We are voting in the version of the importer. Vote 92 MPs: 82 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. [[Relations from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] Where does this offer come from? The debate is closed. [[Heckling]] Two groups of proposals have been made by text of the importer. One proposal is Ralitsa Todorova and a group of GERB § 18 to be dropped. This proposal has been withdrawn. There is no support in the Chamber for withdrawing your proposal, which you have writtenly withdrawn! If there is no proposal on the text, the text of the importer remains! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u101	We are voting against the Commission's proposal. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u102	That's what we did. Watch what we vote, Mrs. Angelova! We voted against the Commission proposal and supported the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u103	"Seriously, I'm In "Transitional provisions' § 3h is repealed. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 19 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u104	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the rejection of § 19. They voted 104 MPs: 92, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ademov, I expect final provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u105	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u106	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the division. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time until the vote on this bill is concluded. Colleagues, there's only a few more paragraphs, so there's no point interrupting him today. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u108	A reverse opinion? I put to the vote the procedural proposal made to extend the time to vote definitively at the second reading of the Labour Code. [[Reply from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] I can't run a third re-vote. You may ask for an end to the debate, but a third re-vote cannot be launched. Vote 101 MPs: 94, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u109	Proposal by the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev for § 20. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: The Social Security Code shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 10: The persons referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall be entitled to receive the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be entitled to receive the information referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code is subject to disability insurance due to general illness, old age and death and for occupational accident and occupational sickness. (b) the current para. 10 becomes para. 11. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4a, para. 5 words................................................................................. 4, para. This appropriation is intended to 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 10, t. 1 is added at the end of the 10th. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 is created. 13: The social security contributions for the persons referred to in art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code shall be imported in advance on no less than the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income under art. 6, para. 2, p. 3. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1, t. 1 after the words. 4, para. 1, t. In addition, paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 42 is The temporary disability benefits due to occupational accident and occupational disease of the persons referred to in art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code shall be paid for the period of incapacity, but for not more than 90 calendar days. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54a, para. 1, t. 3 after the words under this code, a comma shall be placed and added with the exception of the persons referred to in art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54d, para. 1, t. 1 after the words under this code, a comma shall be placed and added with the exception of the persons referred to in art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70a, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 4, para. 1 and para. 3, p. 5 and 6 and 6 shall be replaced by the following: 4, para. 1, para. 3, p. 5 and 6 and para.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u110	Statements? I won't. We vote § 27. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u112	Anblock, we vote paragraphs 28 and 29. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u113	Proposal by the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev for the creation of a new § 23: In § 23. The Civil Service Act makes changes. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In the Law on the Civil Service in art. Paragraph 51 is created. 3 and 4: In administrations where the organisation of labour allows this, working hours with variable limits can be established. The time during which the civil servant must be required to work in the administration shall be determined by the appointing authority. (4) In the cases of para. 3 outside the time of mandatory attendance, the civil servant may work the day-to-day during certain days on the next or other day of the same working week. The method of reporting the working time shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure of the administration concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u114	Statements on the proposal to create a new § 30? I won't. I put to the vote the amendment of the new § 30. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u115	Proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Milena Damyanova. On the basis of art. 81, para. The 2th sentence third of the subscribing proposal has not been discussed and voted on. Proposal by the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Milena Damyanova to create a new § 23a. On the basis of art. 81, para. The 2th sentence third of the subscribing proposal has not been discussed and voted on. Proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva and Milena Damyanova. On the basis of art. 81, para. The 2th sentence third of the subscribing proposal has not been discussed and voted on. ..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u116	Statements? I won't. We vote § 23, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 31. They voted 106 MPs: 105 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u117	Paragraph 24. Proposal by the MP Rumen Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ralitsa Todorova, Claudia Gancheva, Galya Zaharieva, Valentin Vassilev, Dimitar Gechev, Ruslan Toshev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-07-02.u118	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 24 by importer. Vote 109 MPs: 103, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control announcements on 3 July 2015, 11:00 p.m., Friday: First will answer the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to four questions from the MPs Dragomir Stoynev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Slavcho Atanasov, Maya Manolova, Kiril Dobrev, and Atanas Zafirov. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva at one request from the National Representative Angel Naydenov. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer seven questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Maya Manolova, Petar Slavov, Dragomir Stoinev, Svetoslav Belemezov, two questions, and Dimitar Gorov and one question from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Ercan Ebatin, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Petar Kadiev. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmedov. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MP Volen Siderov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and two questions with written answer from the MPs Lyubomir Hristov, Bjunymin Hassan, Aidoan Ali, Hamid Hamid and Ivan Ivanov, and Lutvi Mestan; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva to two questions from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of two questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov, and Zhelyo Boychev and a question with written answer from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Irena Kotseva, Galya Georgieva and Petar Bekov and a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 4 and art. 97, para. 3 of the PSC for the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons the responses to: - four questions from the National Representative Slavi Binev to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelova, and the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev; - four questions from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin, to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, two questions, and to the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev. - two questions from the MP Stefan Kenov to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. Due to a preliminary commitment, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Minister of Health Petar Moskov, Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment with international participation, the meeting for parliamentary control will not be attended by Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
