ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Several messages: Mr. Atanas Merdjanov, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, by letter of September 10, 2015 informed me that on the same date on September 10, 2015, the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. 26, para. 3 of the Rules of Organisation and its activities with 37 votes of 37 voted unanimously decided to exclude from the parliamentary group of the MP Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev. On the basis of art. 13, para. 2 in relation to para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure requests that the change in the composition of the parliamentary group be entered in the register and declared. The register has been entered and the procedure on this matter has been completed with the announcement. On 9 September 2015, by letter from the President of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly received Final Audit Report No 0660100415 with an opinion on an audit and opinion on the Father for the implementation of the State Social Security budget for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. By my letter the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission. Members of the National Assembly may meet him at the Library of the National Assembly. On 10 September 2015, by letter from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly received a Report on the cash implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme for the half-year of 2015, adopted by Decision No 686 of the Council of Ministers. By my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. Members of the National Assembly may meet him at the Library of the National Assembly. According to our weekly programme, we are to be the first to discuss and vote: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND FOR THE PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES, AND THE COLLECTION OF COURTS IN THE CONSTITUTION COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FROM THE QUOTAL OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. A report has been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs with a draft decision. Please, Mr. Kirilov, let us know the report and the draft of the decision of your Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I present your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly At its meeting held on 4 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the issue of the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. The need to conduct the public procedure stems from the termination of the term of judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, elected from the quota of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 148, ) (a.k.a. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In order to implement the provision of art. 147, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Committee on Legal Affairs, on the basis of art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, proposes to adopt procedural rules for the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 11 votes in favour, without the votes of the National Assembly, proposed to examine and adopt the following draft: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and choosing a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 147, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly: I. Offering candidates for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and submitting their documents 1. Proposals for candidates for Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the National Assembly quota shall be made by Members of the National Assembly and parliamentary groups in writing through the proceedings of the National Assembly within 5 days of the adoption of these rules. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: - written consent of the applicant according to the template - detailed CV; - a declaration concerning the fulfilment of the requirements of art. 4, para. 3 of the Constitutional Court Act according to the model "Annex No 2 to the Decision'; - a copy of a diploma for completed higher legal education; - documents certifying the required service.. a copy of the work or service book, a reference or a service note from the institution concerned and others. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals, together with the documents referred to in Section I, t. 2 shall be published within three working days of their entry into the special section on the website of the National Assembly. The names of the MP or the name of the parliamentary group that proposed the candidate shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions on the applicant to the Commission on legal issues and issues to be submitted to it no later than three days before the hearing of the applicant. The media may send questions to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. ==References===External links==* Knyaz Aleksandar I: No 1, Commission on Legal Affairs, or the Commission's e-mail. Opinions and questions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Verification of admission of applicants for a hearing 1. The Committee on Legal Affairs at a separate meeting prior to the hearing shall verify whether the proposed candidates meet the requirements for the appointment of Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Where the Committee on Legal Affairs finds that the applicant has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform him that it may submit them within 2 days of notification. 3. Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to be heard. 2 or do not meet the requirements for taking up the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court. 4. The Commission on Legal Affairs shall, after carrying out the verification, draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing in alphabetical order, in accordance with their own names. IV. Hearing of admission candidates for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria 1. Before conducting the hearing, the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs shall announce the list of applicants admitted in alphabetical order, according to their own names, in accordance with which the order of the hearing is determined. 2. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which shall be broadcast in real time to the special section on the website of the National Assembly. 3. The importers of the proposals present the candidates in an exhibition within 3 minutes. 4. The applicant shall present himself personally and may supplement his professional biography data and present his views on the powers and activities of the Constitutional Court in an exhibition within 15 minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs shall present in summary the persons who have received in accordance with Section II. 2 opinions and questions to which applicants may answer in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 6. Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates at an exhibition within 3 minutes. Once a question has been put to the candidate, he shall be given the opportunity to answer in an exhibition within 3 minutes. 7. The stenographic minutes of the hearing shall be published on the special section on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit to the National Assembly a report from the hearing of candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft model for a decision to elect a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. V. Election of a Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. Candidates shall be submitted according to the order defined in the list under Section IV, item 1. 8. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall provide a summary of the report submitted for the hearing. 5. The deliberations on the nominations shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 6. The vote shall be evident through the computerised voting system by taking the order set out in the list set out in Section IV, i.e. 8. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present MPs, the candidate shall be considered to have received the most votes for. 8. In the event that more than two candidates receive an equal result, a runoff shall take place. 9. If necessary, a third vote shall be held under the same conditions. Annex 1 and Annex 2 are annexed to the draft Decision. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The debate is open. Please the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in the draft decision! Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor basically to make a proposal which, I think, can also be defined as editorial. It seems to me that the deadline laid down in Section I, t. 1 s of five days for nomination is quite short, even, I would say, overly short, and I suggest that we stick to the deadlines that we have adopted in earlier procedures. Here I refer to the procedure for the election of the governor of BNB, of the Ombudsman and so on. Let it be here for seven days, too, because if we accept it as proposed at the moment, it means that it will expire next week on Wednesday, which is usually the first plenary day. This means that perhaps the parliamentary groups themselves will hardly have time to gather and discuss their own nominations, and the point of this period is really to have good proposals, to have a real competitive fight and to choose a quality candidate in the Constitutional Court. I am making the remark and the proposal is dictated by what I heard yesterday at a forum of many civil society organizations. They specifically made remarks regarding this excessive short term, as they expressed themselves, but in general that, unfortunately, although in art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure we have signed requirements for publicity and transparency of the procedure, usually the time limits laid down in the procedures, by adopting these rules, are quite short and simply do not allow this to happen. Including not allowing civil society organisations to make proposals to the MPs and to parliamentary groups that they will adopt and possibly propose in the procedure itself. I suggest the deadline is seven days. I don't think these two days are gonna be that big of a deal for the whole procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, I generally accept the note you make. We could have discussed it at the Legal Committee meeting. I would like to protect this deadline, because in recent procedures, even those you have quoted, there was a much shorter deadline for proposals. We have proposed this period in view of the possible timetable for the procedure. We don't usually object to it being seven days, not five days. I would say that this is in the phase of preparation of documents, which would make it more difficult not for civil society organisations, but for candidates, in so far as they should be more efficient in preparing their papers. Madam President, I am using this case, if I may, to propose an editorial change to Section V. 8. Please drop the word "two" and do the text: "In case more candidates get an equal result, a runoff is held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u8	Thank you for your reply, colleague Kirilov. I think there are reservations in the procedure, and in practice these two days we can compensate them from the time limits that are set for the removal of irregularities in the documents. I am almost prepared to wager that the candidates who will present documents, given the position they are fighting for, will be fined at the very time they are presented. If we give them seven days, perhaps this would further guarantee, as you said, that they would offer and submit proper documents to the National Assembly and there would be no need afterwards for additional deadlines, additional meetings of the Legal Committee to re-examine them, and so on. If you accept the seven-day deadline, I think it's a good decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other MPs? Anyone on the Project of Solutions? I can't see. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's editorial proposal: in I, i.e. 1 instead of within 5 days of the adoption of these rules, read it within 7 days. They voted 133 MPs: 61, against 1, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u10	I'm asking for a re-vote, Madam President. And right now, there are colleagues coming in and they couldn't vote. I think that colleagues have understood... only two days practically, which, I would say, we are moving within the framework of the procedure. In other words, the whole procedure will probably not be affected, but they will be foreseen within the initial nomination period and not within a subsequent period intended to remove irregularities in the documents. My expectation is that if we do this, there will be no problem with the entire period of the procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u11	It's a re-vote. They voted 127 MPs: 56 against 7, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal in Section V. 8 drop the text by two and the editing to be done: In case more candidates receive an equal result, a runoff shall be held. We vote on Mr. Kirilov's editorial proposal. Vote 126 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the entire draft decision, with the editorial amendment we have just adopted, together with Annex 1 and Annex 2 - an integral part of the decision on the Commission's report. We vote, fellow Members. 135 MPs voted: 121, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL An article was reported yesterday. 43 by importer, which the Commission proposes to become art. 44, and the proposals to him. Discussions on the reported text and the proposals to it are pending. This is page 59 of the report. Colleagues, are there any speeches under art. 43 who's setting up special schools? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! These provisions, as you can see from the reported texts, concern special schools and their regulations. In our proposal, we have given a more comprehensive opportunity to validate these good practices that exist and to comply with modern conditions. This includes an opportunity for health schools to exist. In recent years in Bulgaria they have been minimized and are almost on the threshold of extinction, and according to the proposed Law this will be finally formed. We also offer something that is unknown to Bulgarian practice, at least in the form in which we offer it, but there are periods in which similar forms have been used in the history of Bulgaria, and such are still present in a number of countries today. We've called these schools a second chance and I'll explain what it's all about in a moment. Schools are also arranged for the places of imprisonment, because where there are those in which juveniles suffer punishments, conditions for their training and socialization must be provided. We also insist that schools, known mostly as auxiliary, are preserved because there are children with certain degrees of disability who cannot be fully overcome. This cannot be done within the framework of the general educational process, cannot be done through resource teachers or other accompanying forms. This weakens the attention to the problems of these children and the care for them, on the one hand. On the other hand, it troubles the training of most children in the class because the level of training is different, the reactions of the children are different and this is both to the detriment of the pedagogists and the general level of training in the relevant classes. That is why we believe that diversity in the educational system, without leading to any closure of individual forms, should not be eradicated. Specially for the schools, we believe that in years when early school dropouts increase when we already have individuals close to the age they have suspended for a long period of their education, they need to be able to continue their education again. Training for students of compulsory school age who have suspended their education for more than one year, as well as for persons who are 16 years old without primary or secondary education. These schools organize training for the acquisition of primary and secondary education and professional qualifications. For students at compulsory school age, schools are of boarding school type 2 with full-time organization of the school day and with food and dormitory provided. This is a great chance, which, within the current schools, if we perceive them as a building fund and dorms, can be created so that, with not so many additional funds, the school plays a much greater role in terms of such category of persons. For children who need special care, there should be therapeutic complexes in which activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, their professional orientation, counseling and social inclusion are organised. I must also warn that if these opportunities are rejected, we will face the same problems as the mass closure of boarding schools. Yes, it is good for children who can find foster care to be brought out in conditions that give them opportunities to have greater independence and another social environment, but for some of them their removal from social institutions is almost a disaster and a lack of any opportunities for future development. In this case, this analogy should also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u13	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Vigenin to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! By solidarity with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's statement on the proposals that have been made more fully, I will say a few words about my proposal, which the Commission also does not accept. It is about special schools for children with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development. The overall philosophy of the Law that you are adopting has already been discussed. This is a Law that will deepen the differences and division in Bulgarian society, but that is your ideology and when Bulgarian citizens realize to whom and most of all what they have given a majority in parliament, the damage will probably be irreversible. However, I appeal to you within this philosophy to show at least a little compassion and support to the children who were born or in time have acquired the need to receive specific care. Think of their parents who struggle daily to give at least a slightly better chance in the lives of their children. With the decisions you will make, children with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development will be forced to attend ordinary schools. I understand you're doing this under the pretext of increasing their chances of inclusion. But you'll get the exact opposite effect. Firstly, because many simply cannot receive education without specialized care and pedagogical support. Secondly, because it is no secret that the level of tolerance in the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian school is not at the necessary level to make these children feel at ease. I am convinced that many will become subject to various forms of harassment, which will lead to additional isolation and isolation of these children. Thirdly, because a number of purely logistical problems will arise, for which you have no idea how to solve them, and as a result many of them will drop out of the education system. I do not know how many of you have had contact with such children, I do not know how many of you have attended auxiliary schools of this nature, but I would say that the level of development of a society can be judged by how it treats its most vulnerable members. I appeal to you not to punish these children and their parents who are already dealing with heavy lives. Do not destroy anything that already exists and works well. I know what are the ideas with which you will try to make up for these changes, but I can guarantee you that they will not work, will not lead to money saving. The only thing you will achieve is that I stress again that you punish these children and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u15	Any lines to Mr. Vigenin? I won't. Mrs. Boyadjieva has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are discussing one of the most important texts in the Law. I believe that the Members of the National Assembly have come to know the proposal and see that this text is really shutting down the existing auxiliary schools, which have a decade-long tradition in Bulgaria, but not only in Bulgaria, but also in a number of European countries. Some of them took such a measure, but years later they had to recover them. We have repeatedly set such an example in both the Commission and here, from the parliamentary tribune, for example, for Italy. However, I am addressing you today, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps you had the opportunity to talk to teachers and parents from the electoral districts. I have also done so, and in a number of regions in the country, along with my colleagues in Dobrich, Veliko Tarnovo, Plovdiv, Blagoevgrad. We have heard the suggestions and concerns of teachers and parents who work with such children. I must say that in addition to BSP left Bulgaria, you see that there are texts in the proposals to preserve and modernise the auxiliary schools made by the other parliamentary groups. In this sense, I think it is necessary, in addition to everything that has been said in support of the proposals made by us, for texts in this Law in order to preserve and modernise auxiliary schools, to add several more arguments. The main change proposed by us is the preservation of an opportunity for children with special educational needs that cannot be integrated into the general education school, to study under the special conditions necessary for them by preserving and modernizing the previous secondary schools. The practice has shown over the years that there are children and students in which the integration process requires preliminary preparation, special conditions provided precisely in special schools. Modernization of current support schools can enable these children with special educational needs to develop in special care and, most importantly, I think, to give an opportunity to choose the parents who, if they choose to be in the mass school, their children according to the degree of disability to train there and those who do not have such an opportunity to stay in these specialized institutions. I've got 15 e-mails from teachers who have been working in auxiliary schools for decades. They have expressed not only at these meetings, but will not quote names in writing and have said their opinion. However, I will allow myself to read two brief texts to you from these teachers. One of the letters reads: "Practice in mass schools shows that only for a small part of children with special educational needs, only for the lightest cases is integration possible. That is why much for children with mental retardation and with multiple disabilities and disorders of the autistic spectrum will remain invisible to our educational system. They will attend the mass school, but they will actually be out of it. I will read a short excerpt from another letter: The Helping Schools have their place in our education system. Their site is the most vulnerable part of our society. Children with specific needs and peculiarities in their intellectual development and their families. The new Law provides to deprive them of their ability to train in specially established schools under the protection of the state. The targeting of children with disabilities in the general education school for integration is nonsense in the bill. I believe that the quality of education and the safety of the students at the general school will inevitably suffer from the saturation of the classes with children with specific educational needs. This may also result in a negative reaction of parents and other children. Of course, many more such examples can be given, but I believe that we, based on our responsibility as MPs, must carefully reflect on this text, and even though proposals are being made by the opposition, they are based on proposals from parents and teachers. I appeal to you to support something that is useful and based on experience can be modernised and developed in the future in the interests of children with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u17	Replices to Mrs. Boyadjieva? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u18	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will allow myself to say just a few sentences in relation to the text we are looking at, as the subject has been discussed very seriously for months as I go on discussing the draft at second reading in the Commission. Colleagues on the left, the anchor points we heard today, you blew them very high from all the places where you succeeded. Your support points are also evident in the proposals made by several groups of MPs. All this time and at all these meetings you have failed to understand one thing: the change of philosophy of this Law. It is not enough that you fail to understand it, but on top of that you allow yourself to inspire both the people who work in this system and the families who have a serious need for support in this system, concerns, pain, bitterness, fears that their children will not be dealt with. This is absolutely unfair and inhumane to this particular group of people. As you repeat so much and say that we have to rely on good experience, on good practice, that we have to treat these children with other care, I want to ask: why do you divide them and call them helpers? For us importers of this text and importers of the entire bill, it is very important to put children on a plane. Every child is different, every child is special. In this way, we want to give the opportunity to work, firstly, on preventing training difficulties and deficits that children have inside, at school, at each level to reach the support that we have defined as additional, to the least populated place through the different levels of support and the different additional institutions that we leave behind. You know how this is going to happen because we've discussed it and commented on it a thousand times. Further in the texts of the Law we will also comment on details about all additional support in the direction of inclusive education and the principle that we want to apply from now on in the system. This time it's extremely difficult, extremely slow, we're aware of that. Since you are quoting different letters from schools or principals from auxiliary schools, I will tell you that these letters came precisely as a result of your negative campaign in this direction. All the texts that we have produced and which find their place at the second reading of the Bill in the Chamber, and concern this activity from the education system, we have prepared them together with colleagues from the auxiliary schools. From this tribune I would like to thank them that despite the pressure and the press they had from you, they found their professional, expertise, came and sat down with prepared proposals that we discussed, accepted and arranged, and prepared a good enough start to realize this new philosophy in education. In conclusion, I will read you something that has not been said by a director or is not invented: "If we want to improve the lifestyle of children with special educational needs and of adults with disabilities, we will have to put even more targeted efforts into developing sufficiently well funded inclusive educational policies. Communicating education is not an extra but an essential necessity. It is our duty to give the most vulnerable groups a central place in our actions for a better life for all, said Androla Vassiliou, European Commissioner for Education, Culture, Multilingualism and Youth between 2010 and 2014. Colleagues, if we really want to stop the isolation of vulnerable groups in society, because it is a fact, then stopping this isolation should start at school. Right at school is where we will learn not only the children, but we will also teach us the older ones, the parents, the adults, we will all learn to live together because otherwise it will not work out. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Madam President, I would like to use that I am on the stand to make a procedure to end the debate, as these texts will also be commented in further texts that are available on this occasion. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u19	The lines, first. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov left first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u20	Mrs. Zaharieva, don't worry about ending the debate, you'll have the last word in your jacket anyway. The slogans you read us don't disprove the arguments we gave you. These are practical problems and concerns. You answer if Mrs. Marinska wants, for example, in Pazardzhik with such a school of faith, hope and love, what will happen? How are you going to involve these kids? In these schools there are created certain special conditions, there are parents who rely on greater time for their children in school. If you think that a few hours with resource teachers will do wonders, and you are fooling around here, because for some of the children there are objective barriers to their full integration. The educational process may reduce this distance, but there are difficult cases in which, unfortunately, it can never be completely overcome. Those are the real problems. You say someone wrote about their worries, driven by here and from there. If so, would it be better to bring such children with their parents to parliament and this debate to lead him before them, and in their presence to convince them that what you are proposing is for their own good?! And not with this policy that you conduct in other areas, under the slogan "All be in the same conditions and all children are special to us, in fact putting them in an even more difficult position. So putting, as I told you, in a more difficult position and other children, because the needs and opportunities of different children are objectively different... that you cannot, and you do not want to understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u21	Second line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u22	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! This question cannot be approached dogmatically. Every society, and here there is no doubt, owes humane treatment to its members who have suffered and damaged by nature. It seems to me that this great power of nature is absent in your entire approach. You are really confessing the classic understanding of Jean-Jacques Russo that all people are born equal. I share it, too, but they are born equal when nature has not harmed them at their birth. You are trying to amend the laws of nature with your unconsidered legislative proposals. You will try to make the rivers in Siberia flow from north to south; you will try to change the landcraft. I respect your revolutionary audacity, but every such thing borders on stupidity, and that has been proven over the years. I would like to draw your attention to the following fact: 20 years ago in the Republic of Italy these centres and specialized schools were closed. For three years, the Italian state has been trying to rebuild them. There are children with needs whose families insist that these schools be maintained. Finally, the BSP did not run any campaign. All the time you were discussing the bill, you purposely suppressed with the means of power all public reactions. [[SIGHS AND CALLS FROM GERB]] All public reactions to this madness. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] So please withdraw the text, accept the legislative proposals of the left to accept you and the Bulgarian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u23	Third line, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Zaharieva, first of all, I urge you to respect the opinions expressed by the teachers. I said I wouldn't quote names, but people have signed and expressed their opinion in these letters. I want to tell you that we, like you, have talked to a lot of people, both from the system and the employees. We therefore offer modernization within the support school system because there are indeed children with a lighter form of disability who can be in the mass school. Our argument for preservation is to give parents a chance to choose for those children who have a more severe form of disability who need an individualized program to stay in these schools. In your project you have left a single form for specialized schools only for children with sensory disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u25	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u26	In these discussions, it has been repeatedly said that children who will go to the mass school with heavier disabilities when in a class with more children will not have enough time to pay attention to them, and working with the resource teacher is also insufficient for the work, training and upbringing of these children. Something that was also quoted by colleagues in the lines that they did just now to be modern, let us still take note. That's what you're offering to upgrade the system. Let us also consider the fashion that is still in Europe. You have heard what is happening and that if any experience is denied, if it is really proven as a practice that it is not working well, but in this case it is also about European experience, because you are quoting the opinion of the European Commissioner, who, however, has shown that in a number of European countries, the example was given with Italy that they are returning to forms that are good and which are really aimed at better working with children with special educational needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u27	A hole, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u28	Thank you, Madam President. We're deluding Mr. Zablyanov. If anyone's fooling around in this room, it's not me, and it's not my coworkers. Firstly, because there is no one to deceive, because this bill is not only a Bill of GERB. It is made with the help of hundreds of colleagues, parents, organizations that protect the lives, health and education of these families and these children. These people are the parents you say you will invite to attend here, so they were on strike outside the National Assembly building when the Forty-first National Assembly could not reach its acceptance to the end. We've made thousands of dates with enough people to know we're going the right way. Yes, again, it will be difficult, but if we do not start a real inclusion of people with disabilities and people who need additional support, we will not be able to do this. It will remain a serious minus for our society as our civil society. I want us to stop talking once and for all about shutting down auxiliary schools and destroying good practices. Nobody in the law talks about it. On the contrary, based on good practices from resource centres, from auxiliary schools, from work on the project, including training and education, using these good practices, we have applied the additional support at different levels of the special education support centres, regional centres for supporting inclusive education and resource support, which will be in place in each kindergarten and school. So, I'm very much asking you to stop making these delusions, because you're the one who's making them. [[BSP LB lines. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u29	Please, no lines! You had the opportunity to clarify all three lines. Please come in for a procedure, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u30	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I am doing a procedure by which I call on Minister Tanev before the vote to express his opinion on the issue, as there is currently a closing of schools in the education system for which he is responsible and it is appropriate to hear what his opinion is on this subject. Thank you. [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u31	Mr. Mirchev, at the second reading of a bill in plenary, it is the MPs who have the opportunity to express their position on the texts discussed. There is no such practice as to oblige the minister present to comment on the matter. Procedure Mrs. Dukova. [[BSP LB.]] Yes, there are suggestions. It's just that there are procedures in the way that I'm supposed to give right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u32	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! I break my omerta in the soul to remain silent, but this temptation cannot be overcome. It's not the first time you've shown, colleagues, it's at the 40th National Assembly when we discussed...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u33	The procedure, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u34	Yes, Madam President, because they allow themselves to call the MPs stupid. So I'm going to remind them that we're not stupid, we're thinking. For we remember the seats which ye have destroyed: [[Applause from GERB]] We remember the closed schools that you made hundreds in your management alone; we remember the debates that your colleague from the parliamentary group said shyly that you did not read the Law but commented. And this is where you come out three o'clock. [[Applause from GERB]] To cheer me up with incarnation incompetence, because nowhere in the Law does it say we shut down schools and we won't do it. We transform them and never such care that this Law, in all its philosophy...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u35	Your objection to me... [[The President and the People's Representative Snezana Dukova speak simultaneously on microphones.]] And I remember them, Mrs. Dukova, and I remember them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u36	It will not happen at the Bulgarian school. Don't divide, don't segregate the children...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u37	To me, Mrs. Dukova! To me, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u38	By the sign, Madam President, they are doing it... [[Laughter, cheering and applause from GERB.]] ... of whether they are helpful, whether they are additional, whether they are involved or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u39	Mrs. Dukova, we understand your point. I'll be stricter.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u40	Don't make me all three who are, Madam President, none of them are involved in the professional education system. [[The President and the People's Representative Snezana Dukova speak simultaneously on microphones.]] To one of the colleagues in our parliamentary group are directly related.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u41	Mrs. Dukova, I'm giving you a sign! Mrs. Dukova, don't make me take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u42	Don't make me ashamed of you today of this Law. This Law brings perfect philosophy and we will fulfill it. [[Happy tidings, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u43	Colleagues, please apply the Rules precisely. Do not put me in a delicate situation to make public accusations and then, in the form of a procedure, to take opinions towards me, which could safely be expressed in the form of a statement. There's been a procedure to terminate...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u44	It was in the manner of conduct, Madam President, and now there's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u45	Procedure for the termination of the deliberations. Inverse opinion of the termination procedure? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u46	Madam President, honourable Members, I understand that you feel self-sufficient in Parliament, and when one of you makes a speech and considers that it has reached the summit of the speech and is indeed obliged to make a proposal to put an end to the speeches so that this truth cannot then be vitiated.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u47	So were you in the previous parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u48	It is at least unethical, at least, from the one who is speaking, to propose that there be no more speeches after him. This once again shows the way you rule the country and the way you feel in this country as one-powerful masters.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u49	That was you in the last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u50	That's why I'm making a reverse offer. The issue is extremely important, it concerns people, it concerns children, it concerns something called compassion, something that is foreign to you. Therefore, please do not vote to end the speeches and continue the topic not with demagogy, as you have done, Mrs. Zaharieva, but with professionalism. Thank you. [[Reply by National Representative Galya Zaharieva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u51	Please don't shout from the ground! Colleagues, let's control our nerves! I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to put an end to the discussions on the text under discussion. Vote 128 MPs: 99 against 27, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Debates terminated. We're going into voting mode. First, I vote on Mr. Stanislav Stanilov's proposal. The Commission does not support this proposal
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u52	Which part?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u53	The part where it's unsupported. We are voting on the unsupported proposals. These are sub-paragraphs one to four, including. Fifth to eighth are backed up. Vote 128 MPs: 31, against 73, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 35 against 41, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 128 MPs: 29, against 75, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn under para. 10 and supported by paragraphs 5 to 9. I shall put to the vote the proposal under para. 1 and 4, which is not supported by the Commission. There is support in the other texts. They voted 124 MPs: 26, against 25, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 27, against 73, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr Christian Vigenin's proposal, which the Commission does not support on this. 1 and 4 and under paragraphs 5 to 8 is supported. We are voting in the unsupported part of Mr. Vigenin's proposal. Vote 128 MPs: 23, against 70, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to amend art. 43 by importer, which becomes art. 44. Vote art. 44 on the report and the Commission's version. Vote 127 MPs: 103, against 18, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Negative votes, Mr. Ermenkov, after him Mr. Zablyanov. They didn't really speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u54	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Since we are talking about professionalism, I am currently speaking as a long-standing head of the management unit of the Project for raising the well-being of children in Bulgaria from 1999 to 2003. I would like to say to you that I voted against this text because although it is not explicitly written here that the auxiliary schools are being closed, a prerequisite is being created with their absence in the text, their lack in the Law, to be closed. Because, colleagues, the policy of inclusion of children with specific educational needs is indeed a European policy and it is the right policy, but even you know that there are children who cannot be associated with the system of a general education school. They can't even be put there, purely from the point of view of their physical safety. And if you really, Mr. Minister, I address you, take advantage of the fact that these schools are not in the Law and close them down, you will commit a crime against these children. I warn you, we will not remain silent in this case. That is why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u55	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I voted against these texts for nothing but because, under the hollow cliché of inclusion, divisions are being created and, among other things, the prerequisites for uneven treatment are being created for the children for whom we raise slogans here that special care will be taken. Because, honourable Members, inclusion, humanism, equalisation of inequalities in a society cannot be done on the basis of hollow legislative texts. This is the result of both the work of teachers and from the overall understanding of the public of the place of these people, of the conditions that have been created, technically, so that they can receive the same or approximately same degree of education that people with normal, I would say, opportunities and physical needs. And when you're trying to transfer an experience that obviously doesn't function, which will create more unhappy people than you expect, thinking that you're changing something right now and moving along the right path, as a colleague from the stands put it here, just to tell you that even the party of the right path sometimes changes its path. Think straight, watch what happens in society! Inequality in Bulgaria is growing! And with these fictional, imported empty clichés, non-working practices, you discredit the good ideas that are laid down in this Law, and you are creating unnecessary tensions right now! That's what I say best. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Third negative vote? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, which becomes Art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45, which becomes art. 46. Proposal from MP Boyka Marinska and group. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 2, para. Art. 5 and art. 97.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u59	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer to art. 44, which becomes Art. 45, supported by the Commission, the same for art. 45, which becomes art. 46. We vote in one article. Art. 45, Art. 46 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u60	Under art. 46 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by MP Yanaki Stoilov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following changes are made: (a) para. 2 is deleted; (b) para. 5 is amended as follows: To primary and secondary schools and to vocational high schools classes for vocational training of students VI-VII and/or IX-X class may be revealed in order to acquire primary education and vocational qualification (VI-VII class) or professional qualification ( IX-X class). Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Georgieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 46, which becomes art. 47: Art. 47. (1) All schools shall provide general education and extended training. (2) Unified schools may also provide professional training. (3) The secondary schools shall also provide profiled and/or professional training. (4) High schools also provide profiled and/or professional training.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u61	Statements? I won't. Just a second, since the text that is for the President lacks page. 64. We are voting on Janaki Stoilov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 22, against 50, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the version of § 47 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 84, against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u62	Under art. 47 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 18. Proposal by MP Yanaki Stoilov and group. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para is being created. 1. The other paragraphs shall be renumbered. Art. 47. (1) The persons shall provide general education, specialized training in the field of mathematics, informatics, information technology, humanities and natural sciences, and in the average degree of education, and profiling training in the respective profiles. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, which becomes Art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u63	Statements? I won't. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 18, against 54, abstention 25. The proposal is not supported. We shall vote on the text of the importer under art. 47, which becomes Art. 48, supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u64	Under art. 48 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and group. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Borislav Veliev and group. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: In para. 1, t. 4 to be amended as follows: "4." support the training of children and students with special educational needs 2. In para. 2 to finally add as well as the children's complexes. 3. In para. 5 to create sentence two: the Children's Complexes under para. 2 can only see the activities under para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 4 after the word "planetariums" a comma is placed and the expression of the student dorms whose activity is not organized by schools is added. There is a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 1, t. 3 after the correctional period, add the compensator. Alinea 7 to acquire the following edit: The structure and activities of the centers for support for personal development are governed by rules adopted by the relevant municipal council, agreed with the RIO. Proposal from the National Representative Irena Kotseva and group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 para. 1-4 are amended as follows: Art. 48 (1) The extra-school centres shall be state or municipal and shall be: 1. extra-school pedagogical centers; 2. out-of-school specialized centers. (2) Out-of-school pedagogical centers shall carry out training and education activities, skills and competences development and science, technology, arts and sport performance according to the needs and interests of children and students. (3) The extracurricular specialized centers according to their activities shall be: 1. for preventive, diagnostic, rehabilitation, corrective and resocial work with children and students; 2. to support children and students with special educational needs; 3. for career guidance and counseling; 4. Student observatories. (4) The structure and activities of astronomical observatories and planetariums shall be governed by regulations adopted by the Minister of Education and Science. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 "5 " 7" is cancelled and para. is created. 5, 6, 7 and 8: The structure and activities of the extracurricular centers are governed by regulations adopted by the Minister of Education and Science for the State and the relevant municipal council. (6) Out-of-school specialised centres may carry out one or more of the activities under para. 3. (7) The extracurricular specialized centers under para. 3, p. Two and three are state-owned. (8) Out-of-school and specialized centers are also the student dorms. They're state, municipal or private. Student dorms may exist at school or group of schools. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 48, which becomes art. 49: Art. 49. (1) The support centers for personal development according to their activities are for: 1. development of interests, abilities, competences and expression in the fields of science, technology, arts and sport; 2. career guidance and counseling; 3. preventive, diagnostic, rehabilitation, corrective and re-socializing work with children and students; 4. Resource support for children and students with special educational needs; 5. pedagogical and psychological support; 6. implementation of support and training programmes for the families of children and students with disabilities. (2) The centers for support for personal development shall also be the centers for special educational support established under this Law, which shall carry out: 1. diagnostic, rehabilitation, correctional and therapeutic work with children and students for whom the assessment of the regional centre for support for the inclusive education process has established that, according to their educational needs, they can be trained at a special educational support centre, under conditions and in order set out in the state educational standard for inclusive education; 2. pedagogical and psychological support; 3. implementation of support and training programmes for the families of children and students under point 3. 1; 4. Training of children and students under the heading 1 in compulsory pre-school and school age and vocational training to acquire a first degree of professional qualification and/or qualification by part of a profession. (3) The centers for support for personal development are also the student dorms whose activities are not organized by schools. (4) The centers for support for personal development are astronomical observatories and planetariums. (5) The structure and activities of astronomical observatories and planetariums, as well as the student dorms under para. 3 shall be governed by regulations adopted by the Minister of Education and Science. (6) The support centers for personal development may carry out one or more of the activities under para. 1 and 3, except for special educational support centres which can only carry out the activities under para. 2. Special educational support centres may also carry out activities under para. 3 where necessary and where a material base is available in accordance with the state educational standard for the physical environment and information and library provision of kindergartens, schools and centres of support for personal development and the state educational standard for inclusive education. (7) The centers for support for personal development shall be municipal, except for the centers for special educational support under para. 2 which are state and municipal. (8) The structure and activities of the support centres for personal development shall be governed by rules adopted by the relevant municipal council. (9) The structure and activities of the special educational support centres shall be governed by regulations issued by the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This text was also one of the most disciplined in the Committee on Education and Science. This is also evident from the number of proposals made not only by BSP left Bulgaria, but also by the other parliamentary groups. In our opinion, support for the personal development of the child, of the student is the main goal and function of the Bulgarian school. It is associated with the need to individualize the learning process and upgrade the knowledge, skills and needs acquired in school. This is, in our view, well written in the motives of the importers of the Bill, but in the Project itself, including the text we are looking at at at the moment, it is not conclusively developed and will not be effective and the way in which this is intended to happen. [[People from the DPS commented on a proposal on the bill with the rapporteur Milena Damyanova of the rapporteur's bank.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u67	Colleagues, please, silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u68	Our main objections are to the so-called 'Personal Development Support'. The very concept of "Personal Development Support Center" contradicts the declared concept and refers to as a support center for personal development outside a school institution. In our opinion, it should be the school. In the text of the Law in the so-called "Personal Development Support Service" all extracurricular activities are taken out. [[The consultations with the rapporteur Milena Damyanova with MPs from the DPS of the rapporteur's bank continue.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u69	I will ask my colleagues to do not in front of the stand. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u70	The centers can be for the support of talented children, for the support of children with lighter and heavier disabilities, for sport, for counseling, for professional guidance; resource centers in the system, united children's complexes. Part of the centers are intended to occur through transformation and of auxiliary schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u71	Mrs. Damyanova, would you please stop the dialogue?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u72	All of this, however, depends on the municipalities to which these centres will function. Therefore, the envisaged transformation of the current units in our view poses the danger of another closure of institutions that have been proven necessary. In the absence of clear criteria in the Law, units of problematic efficiency can be counted. It is necessary for the Law to provide greater clarity on extracurricular centres. Therefore, in our proposal, we have reflected the minimum necessary for the separation of two main types of extracurricular centres. We propose that these be centers of creativity and capacity development. These are the current extracurricular pedagogical institutions, and new ones that practice will require. The second type of centre are centers for supporting the training and development of children who will work with children who have problems and special educational needs. With their proposals that we are discussing today and other parliamentary groups are practically putting this issue, obviously they are also worried about the vague outcome of closing institutions and replacing them with new ones, where, in all likelihood, NGOs will have a major role to play. Our proposals are more precise and clear.. clearly define the two types of centres that I have already mentioned, which essentially carry out different activities, require different conditions, different specialists, different methodologies, different controls. Determined in this way, the centres clearly meet the public interest and objective needs, retain the most important public-proven activities, and allow their development and modernisation. Finally, I think they will reassure the public because there have also been too many negative opinions on this issue in discussing the Bill and worrying about the closure of existing institutions. In addition, these are institutions that have proved to be useful for both children and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u73	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u74	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Indeed, in the so proposed article of the Law by importers is expressed the understanding of what to do Bulgarian students in outside school time. Speaking outside the language of experts, in the language of the society of the meetings we had with both teachers and educators in children's institutions and with the public, it became clear that one of the great pains of Bulgarian society, of Bulgarian parents, is the question of what children do outside school. Soon months ago, if you remember, there was a debate about violence at school all the time. Here and the Minister was directly involved in this matter. This has become a public scandal. The question of violence in school. For us, the educational process as a philosophy of the Bill should be inseparable from the issue of raising children, receiving and developing additional qualities.. was in the field of arts, natural sciences and so on. We therefore do not question the need for an extracurricular training network to exist. We also dispute through our proposal trying to clarify what extracurricular centres are. The proposal of the importer at the moment, in the case of colleagues from GERB, provides for the creation of simply extracurricular centers. In our proposal we clearly regulate that they are state-owned, financed by municipalities and cannot function simply as centers for personal development, where it is not clear who teaches, what he teaches and what he does, and this is the commitment of the Bulgarian state through the institutions, the commitment of the municipality and in these centers the children will learn to play, sing and dance, to solve tasks, but there will not be others to teach them anything else. As the debate is going on right now, I urge you to look at what is happening in the world and look at our proposals. According to the wonderfully described proposals of colleagues from GERB tomorrow can enter to teach anyone because the centers will be created by the engiota (non-governmental organizations), buildings will be rented, the existing centers will be reorganized now. And then what do we do?! Urgently, we'll have the minister check the center of the center of who, who, and what does he train and which section of the Qur'an, is that it?! And the TV stations will be running around these centers to tell us what's going on out there! Please read the text we offer and do not approach it so lightly! It's not just about training, it's about national security!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u75	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 99 MPs: 19 against 21, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 97 MPs: 20, against 54, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Milen Mihov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u76	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u77	Revoting?! I have already announced the vote on the next text, Mr. Zablyanov. Hurry up and react! We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Mihov and a group of MPs. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 98 MPs: 20, against 8, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. 90 MPs voted: 16, against 57, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u78	Madam President, colleagues! Take another look at the text and pay attention, and tell me what you mean by extra-school centers being state and municipal?! Whose are they gonna be tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u79	Just extracurricular centers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u80	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u81	Besides the call to consider another proposal, do you have Mr. Zablyanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u82	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u83	From the aisle, a proposal for a re-vote. Colleagues, we're overreacting. Vote 95 MPs: 23, Against 56, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for art. 48 by importer, which becomes art. 49. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. This is where we're gonna make a break. At 11:00 we continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u84	Colleagues, please take your seats. The sitting continues with the scheduled for the day and the hour PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New inquiries concerning the period from 4 September 2015 to 10 September 2015 There has been a question from the MP Petar Slavov to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning a policy of the Ministry of Finance regarding the amount of VAT and opportunities for the reduction on medicines and foodstuffs by introducing a differentiated rate and Romanian experience. The reply should be made in writing by 23 September 2015. An inquiry was received from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the facilitation of procedures for issuing Bulgarian birth certificate and identity document for children born abroad. The reply should be made in writing on 24 September 2015. A request from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova to Ivaylo Kalfin was received from the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy on the compliance of professional and educational-qualification requirements for occupying positions in the field of social spheres laid down in the classification of positions in the administration with the specifics of the activity assigned. The reply should be made in writing by 24 September 2015. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on seven issues by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on six questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on seven questions by the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on seven issues by the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question by the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Dubov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a request from the National Representative Evgenia Angelova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on two issues from the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Borislav Veliev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MP Mladen Mihov. Written response supplement from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u85	On behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u86	They had also declared a wish from the Patriotic Front. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov, Mr. Karakachanov doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! We're on the threshold of our first day of school. This day for generations has been associated with joyful emotions in parents and children because the people's education is part of the pride of the Bulgarian spirit. This year it won't be like this anymore. For many Bulgarian children and parents this year, September 15 will be a day of sad reckoning about their lives in a country that does not think especially of them. This conclusion is not the result of interpretation of facts and events, but a matter of figures and objective statistics, because if an event can be interpreted both from the left and from the right to derive a political dividend, then an impartial figure can hardly be presented for success to anyone unless, of course, behind it is indeed such a success. Whoever thinks otherwise underestimates people and their ability to distinguish demagogy and political laboratory PR from the essence of politics. September 15th will be the day 13,000. children will not go to school in Bulgaria because they will be abroad or not enrolled. A few more tens of thousands of students will not be able to continue their education for the same reasons because they believe that we lack perspective and will seek their chance outside Bulgaria or because their parents have no money to prepare them for school. Today, 20% of preschool and school children do not go to school at all, and illiterateness grows. We welcome September 15th with a study that shows that in Bulgaria the preparation for school will be the most expensive in Europe. It takes 338 BGN for the originals, and for the upper classes not less than 488 BGN. How will they afford this several hundred thousand working poor, to whom you have taken away the opportunity to recover their income tax? The trend is clearly outlined. Less and less Bulgarians have access to the system of folk education and less and less of those who have access to it manage to take advantage of it. According to statistics, our nation is down by about 40,000. people per year, and access to education is increasingly expensive for the average person. What does the state do on all these endlessly worrying issues? This year's budget will be remembered above all with frozen social payments, including first-graders' aids and child rearing. The surplus, if at all, will clearly be used for the election campaign of the government, but not to conduct a targeted and meaningful policy in education and demography. And the $16 billion loan is being absorbed and spent. And if it is unclear exactly where the money is going, it is ruthlessly clear where they are not going.. do not go to stimulate the birth rate; do not go to ensure the calm and sustainability of economic relations so that young people can give birth; do not go to education and qualification of young people; do not go to policies that will limit poverty and social exclusion of millions. The product given annually by the Bulgarian people is not spent in a way that will ensure the future of this people. In this bleak perspective, we call on the government to take urgent and adequate measures to provide accessible education for all Bulgarians. This cannot be done by redirecting resources from public schools to private schools. You, in the ruling majority, supported and imposed the deepening of the social disunity between children. The rich citizens of Bulgaria should receive new chances, this time with state support. Changes leading to the collapse and privatisation of the national education system are being adopted. Unlimited number of textbooks per subject, closure of schools and educational institutions, as well as the auxiliary, of hospital schools. The transfer of basic responsibilities and activities to municipalities, the introduction of home education, the absurd decentralisation leading to a lack of a single state policy are only the part of the reformist innovations that destroy the decades of achievements of the Bulgarian school, the Bulgarian people's education. We call on the social minister in urgent order to propose an increase in the amount of social payments that will stimulate birth rates and make it possible for the Bulgarians to receive quality education. Even if this means less money for infrastructure, Bulgaria's future is more important than public procurement and percentages. We call on the MPs to support our bills on progressive income taxation, reducing VAT on children's food and equipment and returning the opportunity of hundreds of thousands of poor workers to recover 10% income tax. That's the money these people are sending their kid to school with. We will continue to uphold this minimum standard of justice in the name of Bulgaria. Part of this House may not believe our socialist ideology, you may not believe me, but I share with you basically statistical information, which, among other things, is also publicly known. I expected the government to be responsible enough to deal with all these issues and take concrete measures. They come up with proposals in the laws, with an update of the budget without us from BSP leaving Bulgaria to urge, but apparently the approaching local elections and the redistribution of access to public resources for public procurement are more important. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the visible results for Bulgaria. We from BSP left Bulgaria are not proud of them and want to change them. You could be in on this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, Mr. Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u89	DECLARATION on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The patriotic front strongly objects to the intention by European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker of mandatory square distribution of illegal immigrants on the territory of the Member States of the European Union. The idea of mandatory square distribution contradicts and violates the national sovereignty of each Member State of the European Union, to decide on its own and to decide who to allow and who to settle in its own territory. As is well known, justice and internal order are matters of the exclusive competence of each national state and are a matter of national sovereignty. Absurd and unfounded idea of a necessary settlement will clearly discriminate against asylum seekers and social aid citizens of North Africa and the Middle East. Due to the significant differences in living standards in Member States, immigrants will be placed at a drastic disadvantage if they are necessarily settled in Turnu Mugurele and Batanovtsi instead of Paris and Berlin. Absolutely vague and indefensible are the criteria for this future square distribution of immigrants, even more clearly the desire of the vast majority of economic immigrants is to reach the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and Sweden. We do not see any grounds or right to restrict these people's rights and wishes to receive German or Swedish social aid, housing and health care. On the other hand, it is completely unclear and indefensible that the number of immigrants that will be allocated mandatory by quotas in the future. The original offer was for 40,000. Man, the new one's for 160,000. Man, tomorrow's probably quiet could be for a hundred million, as much as half the population of Africa and the Middle East. In the proposal of the President of the European Commission, Juncker has no clear criterion, no valid proposal what will be the number of immigrants that will be allocated squarely and necessarily in the Member States of the European Union. The clashes of recent days between immigrants and security forces in Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary, Austria and Denmark have clearly demonstrated aggression and incompatibility with the values of European countries and traditions, as well as with the value system of emerging economic immigrants. The bankruptcy and omissions of the Dublin and Schengen agreements have clearly shown. The failure of the concepts of control and management of total immigration, which flooded Europe in the form of a new migration of the peoples of several hundred thousand people, has also been clearly demonstrated. The patriotic front does not accept the idea that anyone who wishes to move into a Member State of the European Union is entitled to this. We do not accept the idea that anyone who wishes for social benefits, free housing and free health care has the right to receive them at the expense of taxpayers, citizens of the Member States of the European Union, even more in the social difficulties and hardships of the population of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is difficult to experience today with the lowest pensions and salaries in Europe. Every ordinary and sober-minded European is clearly threatened by the invasion of hundreds of thousands of young men on the European continent. The threat is economic, demographic and mostly valuable because these immigrants carry other traditions, another culture, other values incompatible with those of the peoples in the Member States of the European Union. Moreover, the current practice in the Western European countries has shown that these people do not want to integrate into the local societies that offered them their hospitality and, on the contrary, they define themselves in their communities and impose on Europe their religious and public ways. The example of several thousand European citizens of African and Arabic origin, who are currently fighting on the side of the Islamic State, is indicative in this regard. Let us not forget who were the people who carried out the bombings on the London subway, the Madrid station, or the editorial of the French magazine in Paris. The European Commission's proposal lacks the main cause of the invasion, namely decay, wars and violence in this part of the world. There is no proposal to resolve the main cause for immigrants, namely the suspension of military conflicts in Syria and Libya. Without this proposal, quota distribution can and will continue until the population of Africa and the Middle East is exhausted. The proposal of the President of the European Commission is without prejudice or commenting on the decision of the rich Arab and Islamic countries in the region, such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, not to accept any immigrant or refugee from the region, although they are also Muslim countries and border with countries where there is conflict. The proposal of the President of the European Commission is without prejudice to the most sinister terrorist organization of our time, which is the main reason for the mass migration of the population of North Africa and the Middle East, nor does it reveal the widely known facts about the security services and the governments that support it, some of which are neighbouring Bulgaria. Every Bulgarian is crystal clear why Bulgaria cannot afford to accept more immigrants, including the quotas offered. The patriotic front insists that the Bulgarian government clearly and clearly rejects the proposal for mandatory quantum distribution and insists on a lasting solution that prevents and eliminates the causes of emigration, namely a common European decision to support secular and non-Islamic forces in the Middle East and Africa. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. We move on to the questions and questions addressed to Mrs. Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. The first question will be asked by the people's representative Christian Vigenin about the lack of reforms in the state administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u91	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of this year, with little delay after the establishment of the government, you announced your management priorities. You have promised a full audit of administrative services and registers, optimization and revision of processes, so that the administration can facilitate citizens by communicating better with each other. As a focus in administrative reform, you promised to carry out an impact assessment of legislation in partnership with the National Assembly in order to reduce overregulation and frequent changes of laws. You have stated that you will look for wider involvement of civil society organizations and businesses in policy-making and decision-making, you will better structure public consultations, participation of more stakeholders in the decision-making process. You have developed a roadmap for the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of the State Administration 2015 - 2020 on the basis of the adopted by the Government of the Oresharski Strategy 2014 - 2020. You stated that it was prepared for public discussion a roadmap for e-government 2015 - 2020 although the Oresharski government adopted one in 2014. From the first days of your government spoke about the need for cuts in the state administration, which was generally laid down in the state budget for 2015, but was not implemented. Moreover, a reference to 1 July 2015 shows that most ministries have either maintained their numbers or increased them, and in some cases the increase is significant. These are just some of the requests you made for your work as a portfolio deputy prime minister. Now more than almost a year later, I would like to ask you the following: which of your intentions has been fulfilled to date, what measures you have taken have given tangible results and does it have a measurable effect for the benefit of citizens and businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u92	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u93	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, you obviously don't have enough time to keep track of what's going on in the government. I will therefore allow myself here in front of everyone to repeat some of the measures that the government has taken since the beginning of its mandate. As soon as we were elected, we focused our efforts on finalising the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" something that was abandoned and had the opportunity to lose the funds. Therefore, in a very urgent order within literally three weeks, we have revised the entire programme and managed to prepare all documents, plans and strategies in order to obtain the funds. The programme for good governance was one of the first approved by the European Commission. It is the basis with which we finance from now on all our activities and reforms.. there is funding for e-Justice, reform of the judiciary. In July, the first application procedure was announced with a project. I personally monitor how the projects are going and I participate in their prioritization on logic to create conditions to develop the base on which to continue to work from now on. The areas in which the requested reforms will be carried out: increasing the efficiency of the administration, introducing an impact assessment and involvement of civil society; something that we believe is over as far as government powers are concerned; because two weeks ago the project was adopted and I hope it is already in parliament for consideration; improving administrative service, developing e-government, publishing information in an open format. I hope you know, and if not I will remind you that one of the government's first decisions was to be published in an open format of 119 databases. At present, we have achieved 70% of this task. Regarding the increase in the efficiency of the administration, the state number was reduced by 1811 stats as of July 2015, with the number of the state administration without the municipal number of 115 848 stats. In July 2014, it was 117,659 after an increase which was registered during the previous term of office. In the central, regional and specialized territorial administration for one year the numbers decreased by 2558 stats and reached 58 344. I have a reference. I can give it to you after we're done. With regard to impact assessment, the Bill has been adopted. It pays attention and solves the following problems: increasing the period for public consultations from 14 to 30 days; creating obligations for executive bodies and local self-government to carry out online public consultations; creating obligations for executive bodies to prepare feedback and publish on the internet the answers of the comments and proposals received by the public consultation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I can see I'm running out of time. I'll fill you in later. I can also provide you with the written version of the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u94	The line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u95	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would like to say that I closely monitor the activity, the actions your own personally, and the government with regard to the reforms in the administration. Yes, indeed, my question is from the end of July, meanwhile at the end of August you adopted changes to the law you mentioned. We will discuss it in the National Assembly, so there is already something concrete like a Bill. On the basis of my questions to each of the ministers, the answers are on the website of the National Assembly. There you can clearly see whether it is really true, what you say about reduced administration. Perhaps in general yes, but specifically in the central departments it has practically increased, again I say, by the beginning of July 2015. In practice, I have to say that everything that has come out of your office so far is rather in the future time and you continue to talk: It's been a year since the government was created. I hope your mandate does not end before there are really any concrete results to leave a visible trail. It is clear that the quality administration requires an objective assessment of the entrance, payment to keep the young and prepared staff, to ensure continuity and to neutralize corruption temptations, conversion of thinking, I understand, a difficult process, but it needs more effort there. The administration owes the citizens, not the other way around. A quality new level from the point of view of services for citizens can only be achieved with accelerated electronization. The so-called government of power over the last 15 years has become a bottomless pit in which hundreds of millions of levs have sunk, and while we are barely moving along this path, the advanced countries have greatly increased the distance. I understand that there are new ideas to create a state agency this time to monitor these issues. I wish you success in this venture, but I fear that the stated intentions to save a billion leva annually from the establishment of such an agency and its activities will again remain far away in the future. I would say that cuts in terms of savings in themselves do not make the administration more effective. Often, the pursuit of cheaper administration only on the basis of reducing numbers can be costly to the State, as far as there is a level below which it could not, purely physically, fulfil its objectives. I hope that this analysis will be done very carefully and when the forthcoming 2016 budget is formed, because from now on we are hearing requests for cuts in some ministries where further cuts will virtually make it impossible for these administrations to exist. One of them is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I say again: I wish you success because your success will mean a better environment for business, better service to citizens, but also you personally, and the government are still in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u96	A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u97	Dear Mr. Vigenin, thank you for your wishes. We are all interested in the success of the efforts we are taking. I specify: two very important legislations are ready and are in the public discussion phase "The Law on Electronic Identification and the Law on Electronic Governance." I hope for their quick examination in Parliament so that we can start the process from New Year. With regard to the state administration, the project for functional analysis of the administration is launched. Whoever has reformed knows that without such an analysis, any effort can be compromised. It is funded by OPSP and I hope that soon we will have its results so that we can functionally optimize the administration. I also do not share the view that the reduction in numbers is the only form and manifestation of administrative reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question to you is from the MP Velizar Enchev on the different treatment of employees in the public sector with regard to the payment of additional remuneration for acquired work experience and professional experience. We're listening, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u99	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I will ask you a question which directly affects tens of thousands of civil servants directly discriminated against by the first term of your government when the Finance Minister was Simeon Djankov. I am sure that now these thousands of civil servants are listening carefully to understand what discrimination was done to the state apparatus in the Republic of Bulgaria. On 1 July 2012, on a proposal from Simeon Dyankov, a new model was introduced in the Law on the Civil Service and the Labour Code to pay employees in the state administration, which basically removed the supplement for professional internship and service in the state administration, but not for all civil servants, Mrs. Bachvarova. The supplement for professional internship and service time, which varies to 2% and is a serious financial resource, does not apply to employees in the National Security Service, to employees in the Ministry of Interior, to employees in the State Agency of National Security, who receive up to two percent on the basic monthly remuneration. This does not apply to civil servants in the Ministry of Defence who are directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence, another additional discrimination, which is unacceptable. This also does not apply to judges, prosecutors and investigators who receive an additional remuneration for professional service of two per cent for each year of service. Adding that administration officials, political cabinet members in ministries, advisers, experts in these offices also receive this remuneration, but it is not received by other administration officials, I can safely talk about discrimination that must be eliminated by your government, as you introduced it three years ago. If he adds that all of us, the MPs, are getting professional experience supplements and time served, he shows that we are primarily thinking about our interests and not about the interests of the employees, and it is in the National Assembly that employees in the National Assembly are subjected to this severe discrimination. My question is: will this policy continue in the public sector? Shouldn't this policy of discrimination end, of course, with legal changes proposed by the current minister of finance?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u100	For an answer Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u101	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, in the argument of your question you are referring to laws. The imbalance you are drawing up is legally regulated at this time. The government has a legislative initiative, but I think nothing limits the legislative initiatives of the MPs. As far as the Government is concerned, yes, we are looking for mechanisms to take due account of the professional experience of the administration. The pay model is the government's attention and is among our priorities. The examples you presented while developing your question can be changed entirely through you. We do not support imbalance policy and that is why the Council for Administrative Reform was established as an advisory body of the Council of Ministers in coordinating government policy in the field of state administration. In the Council's 2015 work programme, we have planned to discuss the existing pay model in the public administration and the effects of its impact after its implementation as of 1 July 2012. An analysis of the pay model has been prepared under a project that is from the "Administrative Capacity" Programme, which means that its implementation is complete. It contains research into the implementation of the model, identifies the positive effects, problems, weaknesses and opportunities to solve the identified problems, which are a useful guide to improving the payment system. We are aware that the change must cover all legislation, and in the longer term, as it is constantly changing, we have provided for periodic analyses in the State Administration Development Strategy 2014-2020. On the one hand, we aim to ensure that the pay model in the Bulgarian state administration responds adequately to the environment and, on the other hand, to identify the shortcomings identified in the process of its practical implementation and to improve its effectiveness. The analysis is currently being reviewed by the permanent working group on human resources development supporting the work of the Administrative Reform Council. Both members of the political cabinet and leading experts from the state administration and NGOs are included in the group. They are currently preparing proposals, including for regulatory changes aimed at improving the payment system. The changes relate to limiting the differences in remuneration of employees holding equivalent positions in different administrations, which is in line with the principle of equal pay in the case of equal work. In addition, the establishment of uniform rules for determining and increasing individual remuneration and strengthening objectivity and control in increasing remuneration. We are about to look at in the Administrative Reform Council the texts of the Working Group on Change and if they are voted by the Council of Ministers, they will be offered to the attention of the National Assembly. Through analysis and precision on your part, I believe that with joint efforts we will be able to offer standards that will take account of fairer pay. It's a big subject, a lot of effort, we haven't given up on it, we're working.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u102	The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u103	Mrs. Bachvarova, thank you for your understanding. In fact, you're giving an idea that I'm thinking about. It should be made in the National Assembly by us, the MPs, proposals for amendments to the Law on the Civil Service and the Labour Code to eliminate the imbalance of pay in the state administration. Once again: this imbalance is extremely humiliating for public administration officials who are not members of political offices that are not close to the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Interior who do not work at the SANS or the National Security Service and the National Intelligence Service. First of all, let me say, as we work in the National Assembly, let the officials in Parliament understand that they are discriminated against by this same National Assembly. This National Assembly, which employs hundreds of employees and does not receive these supplements on their professional experience and time served, but we receive them, which is extremely unfair and unethical to our colleagues in the National Assembly. Once again: I believe that you, as a ruling party, can also initiate such changes, because it is tens of thousands of civil servants who are not party dependent are not party subordinates and in no way serve the ruling party, whoever it is. If we want to be fair, let us also eliminate these additives to the MPs. I know there's gonna be a murmur in this room right away. Thank God the room is empty and, thank God, the ruling and right-wing majority is gone, as they will immediately react...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u104	Thank God, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u105	Yes, thank God, because you'd react right away. Thank God you're not so many. But let the Bulgarian people also know that the public administration in Bulgaria must know that social justice must be obtained precisely, I hope, proposed by you, and if you do not, of course, as an independent MP, I will propose that this imbalance in the state administration be immediately eliminated, as it is about favouring party assignment staff mainly in political offices, regardless of who controls you or the left part of the room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u106	Madam Minister, you have the right to the back of your head. You don't want to. Thank you. The next question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Bachvarova is from the National Representative Krassimir Hristov Jankov on the additional organisational measures introduced to optimize police presence in small towns. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, colleagues! In relation to the adopted Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 "2018" priority 20.6 is the measures for limiting domestic crime, police presence in the settlements with increased concentration of crime, video surveillance in critical areas. What are the additional organisational measures to secure police presence in small towns and in which settlements? My question is for the last one year, in which you, as part of Borisov's office, are also involved with the Ministry of Interior. The issue is very serious, it concerns all Bulgarian citizens, if they are not personally affected, they are affected by thefts, robberies, arsons, breaking and entering of property, illegal withdrawal of vehicles. Since you denied measures taken by the previous cabinet regarding the legal possibilities for patrol-posting activities of specialized police forces, the use of extracurricular collaborators, please answer me specifically about the new measures you have taken as Minister of Interior and as a government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u108	Madam Minister, please come in and answer Mr. Iankov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u109	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, you must remember that I have answered several times from the parliamentary platform on this subject and I can hardly surprise you with anything unexpected now, but I am taking this opportunity to repeat so that it is clear to everyone who listens to what we are doing. It's good to have a political memory and to take into account the things that have happened before, but that I can't ask of you imperatively, so I'm going to try to mind my own business.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u110	You'll never be able to demand it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u111	I'll look forward to it. This is one of the main priorities in the work, not for another, but because we are aware of how difficult this problem is, how long there have been accumulations on the topic of limiting conventional crime. We therefore do not justify ourselves by the fact that it is usually governed by a series of side factors that have a fundamental social character. I'm skipping this part, and I'm going to tell you that the analysis we've done since the beginning of the year shows that there's a reduction in registered criminal offences by 6.62%, compared to the same period last year, with 66,000 registered. 768 crimes now, compared to the same period of 2014. seventy thousand. 498. $25,000 has been discovered. 426 crimes or 38,08 percent, compared to a detection rate of 32,48% over the same period. That is, the effect of our efforts can obviously be shown and quantitatively Against the background of such a public phenomenon, I think there is a significant reduction in crime and an increase in disclosure. The statistics are in two favorable directions. The other directions we are working on must have a longer-term effect. This is: building video surveillance systems. We have audited, we know where they exist, where they are to be built, what the difficulties are, where they need to be repaired or improved. So this is one direction in which we are working, but unfortunately, it has to do with a lot of money and we cannot take action that quickly. We have prepared criteria in accordance with which the sites for the construction of these systems are defined, we have given recommendations, and we have set standards.. something very important so that we can integrate all the information. We have restored the active role of the National Council for Crime Prevention. This is where all the institutions participate. Unfortunately, we're still working on the analysis phase, but, as I said before, if you don't have a good analysis, you just don't have any guarantees that you'll do your job. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Day-to-day monitoring. We have a redistribution of employees based on optimization of individual structures, mainly in duty units, and I expect those posted at the moment in connection with the tourist season and the preservation of agricultural production to be more actively involved in the coming months. We have other administrative measures, but then, when I finalise their proposal, I will be most pleased to present them to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u112	Line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u113	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! My question is very specific: what are the additional organisational measures to optimize police presence in small towns and in which settlements? Did you answer this particular question? No! Otherwise, the statistics you are quoting, what you are reporting, are there also in brackets. show how many applications are submitted in good faith by the Bulgarian citizens? It's a question we can't guess. Going into the rhetoric with which you handled the answer, I can think of a few questions. Number one. Is patrol-post activity secured by the relevant units of the Ministry of Interior in all areas and in small towns? Is there a prevention against domestic crime that is also associated with local authorities? Are the order and tranquility of the citizens secured? Do you use all possible measures under the Public Order Protection Act, quick investigations, quality collection of evidence to trust the people of the Ministry of Interior, or the law and the court hinder you? Questions I am convinced are asked by the Bulgarian citizens and the answers they give themselves are: No, no, no! Responsibility is not only political, it is moral and it concerns all of us. Running away from a specific answer to me is nothing but that you simply have no measures taken, even though you have recorded them as government commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u114	A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u115	Mrs. Tsacheva! Mr. Iankov, I haven't had a chance to finish the answer to my question because I have a lot to say on this subject. I can point out figures: at least 307 police officers are currently being reassigned to small towns. The biggest problem we have with securing in Vidin, Montana, Vratsa. There's a shortage. We are trying with the forces of the gendarmerie to redeploy ourselves, as well as filling the places with competitions, but there is some delay.. We have included additional 27 inspectors who are related to the specific areas. As far as prevention is concerned, yes, we are. We have prepared lists of all persons who have been found to carry out such attacks and carried out preventive activities with them. I can't name them, and I don't think it's right for me to do it here, from the stands. Yeah, we're using all the options. I personally tour the district directorates and discuss this topic in order to assess where the best decisions can be made. If there's anything in my way, it's not the law, Mr. Yankov. It's the pointless bickering.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u116	There is a question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the analysis of the traffic situation and the increased number of traffic accidents. We're listening, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u117	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In connection with the analysis of the country's traffic situation for the first six months of 2015, the number of traffic accidents, the increasing number of people killed and injured were found. A complex of new additional measures on road control in the country was officially presented. Some of them were expressed in a partial return of cases and the conditions under which police officers could stop road vehicles in a clear violation of the Road Traffic Act without video recording or conducting the method of wide-ranging control. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is as follows: how do you evaluate and analyse the high number of road accidents and in this regard what complex measures, rather than violent ones, are taken by the Ministry of Interior to improve traffic conditions and to build a higher driving culture, which, in my opinion, is extremely important in which motor vehicle drivers manage their vehicles predictablely, namely with care for other road users? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u118	For an answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u119	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Belemezov! I share the concern about the state of the road situation in the country and daily follow its development, statistics which, with its accumulation, show many interesting phenomena and causes of the state we are in, about this high traumatism to the greatest extent. My personal opinion is that this is a long time absence of systematic control measures. It turned out that for a very long time, for one reason or another, they were not carried out in road users and there remained a feeling of impunity. Quite a lot of blame is on some of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who for one or another organizational, personal or any other reason, have not handed out the penal decrees. That is, not only has control been reduced, but also sanctions have not reached the specific offenders. So, starting at the end of July, our strategy, I would call it, the idea of continuing and changing the system that controls the state of the roads in a new way. We started with very clear statistics to monitor day by day, week by week to direct our efforts in this direction. About August 15th, I issued an order to introduce special control measures. We've strengthened control in small settlements. We have gained control during the movement through removals and, of course, on the high-speed roads we also remained in control, but this time in cooperation with the DAI. I can tell you that the order was fined to a specific settlement. The guidelines we have provided are such that the specific measures are implemented according to the analysis of the specific situation. We've strengthened control activities in general. What we find, which may be my biggest concern, is that it still continues driving after drinking alcohol, but more importantly, much more people drive without being able drivers. That's what I call unacceptable. That is why we are currently developing strict criminal measures so that we stop this practice, which is clearly once again reflecting this large deficit of control measures in recent years. Because the main part of the most severe road accidents is committed by incompetent drivers, and it is in those roads on which there has never been control. These are the roads between small towns. Another emphasis is the reduction of traumatism and the number of road accidents in the settlements. What I had the opportunity to see yesterday in Plovdiv after the change in the management of the district directorate encouraged me, because after just three weeks, by changing the internal organization in the directorate there was no major traffic accident with many victims. That is, the efforts of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior can produce results when they are applied as they should, and that will be our efforts from now on. With regard to the races, the intolerantness of this phenomenon, of course, and reaction when it happens. But, first of all, what I particularly care about is prevention, that is, we have pre-registered the places where they are carried out. Wherever possible, we do prevention. I think there is still more to be done in this regard, as well as in relation to the possible sanctions and penalties to be applied. I'll be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u120	You've been talking for over a minute, Mrs. Bachvarova. A line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u121	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, this is an extremely difficult problem for Bulgaria, which I must tell you, in most cases does not correspond directly with the criminal measures that have been established so far, which are subject to the various road intruders. In general, in my opinion, the preventive mechanism is an extremely important one, which somehow changes the culture of road traffic. If all the people who are involved in this movement do not give a clear account, we do not try to create a clear idea of how important we are on the road, then believe me, whatever measures are being taken, things could hardly be changed in the short term. I personally suffer from such a situation as I have an extremely close relative lost in a car accident. I must tell you that such ridiculous incidents give rise to the need to take short-term measures - solid and clear measures that will solve the problems literally today for tomorrow. We have all had the opportunity to travel outside Bulgaria and to observe people's culture not only in European countries but also in other countries. There you can see that the main mechanism is prevention. I mean, this guy who got a driver's license and who drives a motor vehicle, has the opportunity to be involved in traffic, to think and to think preventably and to know that he's not alone on the road. I wish you every success in these measures. In general, what I've heard from you, personally, pleases me. Hopefully, with consistent and firm action, we will be able to achieve them. And just one more nuance. It will be extremely important to carry out constant analyses on the effectiveness of road safety controls, which are currently a major focus in the Ministry of Interior, which are taking place in the respective territory of the regional governments in the country where the smaller settlements are located. This emphasis also gives rise to two others, which, in my opinion, need to be brought to particular attention. One of them is that in most of the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorates in the country there is not the necessary number of junior executive posts of the so-called "Junior Auto Controller" for the appointment of the daily, permanent, 24-hour independent road control teams. It's an operational issue. I believe that it can be overcome and that the necessary measures can be put in place. The second sub-account is in fact that the assigned shifts in road control at the country's district governments should be used only in the control of road safety and commit themselves to securing this particular process and not be involved in securing and maintaining security in terms of public order, as there will be a decentrisation of the forces that the Ministry includes in the fight for road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u122	A minute more for the Deputy Prime Minister and a minute more, respectively, for the MP. Would you like to use the backrest, Mrs. Bachvarova? Thank you for your participation in this parliamentary control as well. We move on to the questions and answers of Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first will ask his question Mr. Ivan Penkov Ivanov about the construction of a bypass of the town of Dimovo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u123	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My question concerns the construction of a bypass at the town of Dimovo. In 2014 the Road Infrastructure Agency (IAI) announced a tender for the construction of a bypass of the town of Dimovo at a value of about 10 million. lv. with VAT and implementation period of no more than 210 calendar days. The funding of the project is under the New Construction Programme, of the Road Infrastructure Agency and it was intended to be implemented with funds from the Republican budget. The road is part of the Total European Transport Corridor No 4. It provides transport connections between Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey and the Middle East, which determines its national and international importance. Four candidates appear on the announced order, but the actual start of the construction of this site is not given due to lack of funding. Currently, the construction of a bypass of the town of Dimovo is essential mainly due to the increased traffic from Danube Bridge 2, which passes through the town of Dimovo and the villages of Bella, Skolja and Medovnitsa. The current pavement is heavily worn and broken, and in the district of the town of Dimovo the pavement is dangerous. At the village of Bella the existing road is crossed by the railway line Sofia Vidin, with a crossing under extremely dangerous conditions. The current state of the road determines a low speed of traffic and increases the risk of traffic accidents. With the construction of the bypass, the movement will be carried out outside the settlements, which will increase traffic safety, improve living conditions in the settlements and protect the environment. My specific question to you, Madam Minister, is this. Is it expected in 2015 to launch a new procedure for the award of construction on the surrounding road in the town of Dimovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u124	For an answer Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u125	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! As you rightly pointed out in your question, for the construction of the bypass of the town of Dimovo there is a public contract announced at the beginning of 2014, but there are two important nuances, I would say, two important elements of this public procurement that we need to know. The first is that this contract is announced without secured funding in the budget of the Road Agency. The public procurement was announced with an indicative value of this project. The construction of this perimeter, 10 million. lv. During the opening of the bids of the candidates companies, it was found that the lowest offer of all candidates submitted exceeds the indicative value of the announced procedure, namely the lowest offer is almost 13 million. BGN, so 3 million more than planned, although also not available in the budget of the Agency. This is one of the reasons why the complete termination of the announced procedure is motivated. The second motive of the Road Agency and the Evaluation Commission, respectively, for the termination of the procedure, is that in the tender procedure itself it is laid down that at the date of selection of the contractor and the start of the construction works, the alienation procedures of the terrains, which will affect the new perimeter of Dimovo, should be completed. These are about 145 acres of agricultural land, as well as lands in the urbanized territories of several settlements, except in the land of the town of Dimovo, in the village of Kostichovtsi, Long Pole, Bella and as a whole part of the municipality of Dimovo. What is the situation with these alienation procedures to date? To date, they have not been completed because, in relation to the EIA decision issued on the perimeter in question, which was issued in March of this year, a positive EIA decision has been appealed. This appeal has been examined by the court and we expect the scheduled meeting, which is not until November this year, to decide whether to adopt the EIA decision or to reject or return to work. Only after the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, which we expect in December, will it be possible to proceed and examine the plot of land from the Council of Experts, and only after it is established will we come up with a decision, I hope, in early 2016 and will start real alienation procedures. After their completion and, of course, when providing funds in the budget of the Agency, we will be able to reconvene the procedure. Otherwise, we are prepared to announce one when securing the budget. Whether partially for the tour of Dimovo only, which I confirm is extremely important to be made, as part of the overall direction we are working on, you know, we have finished Mezdra Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u126	The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I am partially satisfied with your response, realizing the administrative procedures that are linked and which are pending in relation to the alienation procedures, but the lack of funding can again slow down the real implementation, the actual construction of this site. I assure you that the situation there on the field is indeed extremely severe. The road is in an extremely difficult state, it is broken down in this area, again, as I said at the beginning of my question, the movement is very difficult, so I would like to make an appeal to you to make this site a priority for the next 2016 because one whole region cannot be cut off from the capital. We're talking about $13 million here. I don't think it's that much funding. I would like to compare it with the repair of the NDK fountain, which is worth 10 million, and here we are talking about the connection between the capital and the Vidin region, we are talking about the connection between Danube Bridge 2 and the capital, which basically puts a strong priority on this site. This question has also been asked by other Members of the National Assembly, and I reiterate its importance. I hope that you as Minister will work as a priority next year to secure the funds and for real implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You won't use the hole, Mrs. Pavlova. We move on to the issue of the National Representative Slavi Binev on improving infrastructure as a measure to counter possible natural disasters. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, dear colleagues! The construction of modern and stable infrastructure is an integral part of the policy of reducing damage, such as the catastrophes from Dobrich, Varna, Haskovo region, Miziya and others, which we have witnessed in the past year. Taking concrete action is essential to avoid new tragedies. Part of the checks carried out shall signal dozens of cases of illegal construction, waste of equipment or the absence of such serious consequences. I received a letter from the mayors of Haskovo region who alerted the high risk of flooding vulnerability. It is necessary to clean the troughs of rivers, fix the dikes and take other measures. I would therefore like to ask you: what projects are being prepared? What preventive measures were identified by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to deal with these problems, on which the lives of the Bulgarians depend directly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, an undisputed fact is the need to ensure and improve the infrastructure concerning not only the road infrastructure of municipal and urban infrastructure, in the territory of the whole country, as we know that Bulgaria is characterized by a high degree of geological risk. This is the reason at present in the territory of the whole country that we have registered over two thousand landslides. Only by the end of last year we have a very detailed database developed by a team of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which showed that we have registered 1865 landslides, and already by the end of this year they have increased, unfortunately. Of these 60% are located in urbanized territories, which means in settlements. With the largest percentage of these almost two thousand landslides are landslides in northern Bulgaria. Thanks to the development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences team I presented to the Council of Ministers and a National program for prevention and limitation of landslides on the territory of Bulgaria was established, including the effects of erosion along the Danube and abrasives along the Black Sea coast. This National Program was endorsed by the Council of Ministers. It includes three groups of measures.................................................................................................................... What are the main sources of funding that we foresee? They're in three categories. Of course, the first category is the state budget, the budget of the Ministry, the budget of municipalities and the budget of the Road Agency, and everyone in their competences has a commitment to strengthening landslides, depending on the terrain and where it is located. The second and one of the main sources at present is the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents, which provides funding, as in emergency situations, when, of course, it reaches the budget, and for the prevention of some of these landslides, especially those active by them. As of this year, with the approval of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" we are counting on a resource of 56 million. lv. under this operational programme, which should be primarily targeted at measures relating to the strengthening of landslides and the improvement of infrastructure. The beneficiary of this budget line of the Operational Programme is both the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Road Agency for landslides, which activate and compromise the road network, and they are indeed many, and respectively each of the municipalities, which is also a beneficiary and has a commitment to strengthening the infrastructure. So that's it. We are currently in the process of finalising the negotiations with our colleagues from the Ministry of Environment and Waters, who are the managing authority of this programme, so that they can open the negotiations as quickly as possible with the possibility of funding and more infrastructure projects to start their implementation as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u132	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here you are, Mr. Binev, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I would ask you only in your reply to have a little more specific, because the people, and the mayors with whom I correspond, are from Haskovo region, but I think these are problems for the whole country, asking me about specific things. I mean, what are the measures that will be taken specifically? When is funding expected to be possible to launch these measures that will be made? Most importantly, how will it be ensured that there will be no more selected beneficiaries and to wait for them to be, for example, and so on? I mean, really have transparency in procedures. The most important thing in this case, by the way, is to really ensure that the measures really secure the routes and we will not put citizens' lives at risk. These are questions to which I should be able to return your answer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Binev, what I can assure you is that thanks to this National Program all landslides on the territory of the country are not only analyzed, but are prioritized in four groups, those who are most emergency and emergency for strengthening, and are ranked by priority or those who need only observation. This prioritization and separation of landslides will enable an objective assessment, including the Interdepartmental Disaster Commission, and funding under the The information is public and every mayor can see the appropriate landslide on the territory of his municipality, where it is identified and registered in which group, which category he falls and thus can justify the need for urgency of the financial resource. Speaking of mayors, you'll allow me some important information. Since you asked me what measures we have taken, what I have first proposed to the Council of Ministers and already in parliament for consideration, are changes in the Law on Structure of the Territory. I hope that they will be admitted to parliament in the coming weeks. In these changes, I propose that we tighten the regime precisely by issuing building permits and the ways in which it is built in landslide areas. What we see on the Black Sea coast and on the Danube coast, and not only is there a mass building permit in landslide areas without plumbing, without sewerage and without prior measures to strengthen the infrastructure. I'll tell you a statistic. We've checked every construction site in the landslide area. In the case of registered and verified 699 landslides, 5354 construction was carried out. Of these 5077 constructions are allowed by mayors of municipalities. The verification shows that almost 4,000 of them, or 3987, did not comply with the law [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That is why I propose that amendments to the Law, which concern tightening the regime, should not be allowed in landslide areas to be built without plumbing and sewerage, which further activates these landslides so that this process can be better controlled and regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u136	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. The next question is from the MP Gunay Heusmen Hughesmen about the Republican road 2306, along the section Todorovo Here you are, Mr Hughesman, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Republican Road III-2306 is a third-class road, part of the Republican network of the Republic of Bulgaria, passing entirely along the territory of the municipality of Isperih, Razgrad region. Its length is 6.3 km. The road is diverted to the right at the 92nd km of Republican Road II-2323 in the center of the village of Todorovo and is headed south through the Ludogorsko Plateau. Passes through the villages of Pechenitsa and Sredoseltsi and in the center of the village of Kipinovtsi connects with Republic road III-702 at its 15th kilometer. The current condition of the above road section is in very poor condition All this affects the safety of the movement within the municipality of Isperih and endangers the security of traveling citizens. In this regard, as a citizen and as a representative of the National Assembly, I ask you the following question: within what deadlines will you take the necessary action to reconstruct Republican road III-2306 in the section of Todorovo Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u138	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Hughesmen, it is an undisputed fact that this time on the territory of the municipality of Isperih, as well as some of the third-class roads not only on the territory of the district of Razgrad, but also on the territory of the whole country are in unsatisfactory condition. There are several reasons. The main budget is the insufficient budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency for investment throughout the road network. This is also the reason why when prioritizing the small available resource for investment in improving the road network, starting from the highest road class and then taking into account the places with the largest traffic and serving the largest number of settlements. That's the reason, not that we somehow ignore smaller settlements. For the three settlements we are talking about, this is certainly the only way. A total of 1,000 people live in them. It's a six-mile stretch, but it's only a small part of the third-class road network in the area that's in bad shape. To repair this time is not an investee since 2001. This is the last moment when it is an investee. In recent years, no repair activities have been carried out in the period 2013 - 2014 - 2015. We should note that the most intense traffic on this road section during the summer months, when heavy combines and agricultural machines are used, which further damage already the bad pavement. Let us not forget that this time is not designed for the gauge and scale of these machines that pass through it and destroy it the most. Not to mention that the precipitation last year and this year further compromised the condition of the road. I can say that the Agency's budget, as it was at the beginning of the year, is still equally limited, and for this time no complete repairs were foreseen. The calculations show that more than 840 thousand are needed. BGN, so that it can be brought into good condition. However, I can make a commitment before the start of the winter season to make at least partial patching and preparation of roads for the winter so that a partial patching and preparation of the road for winter conditions can be made within this year. Depending on the budget available next year, it will be possible to think of more serious repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova. Mr Hughesman, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u141	Madam Minister, I was prepared to say that I would be dissatisfied with your response, but in this case you really impressed me. Thank you for your answer, you've been very correct. During the period of developing socialism in places instead of billboards on the roads of Bulgaria there were slogans of a prominent statesman. Todor Zhivkov, who used to say: The roads of Bulgaria are the arteries of the country on which the living blood of the Bulgarian economy flows. In my youth, it made a very strong impression on me. The fact is that in Northeastern Bulgaria, however, especially in Ludogorie, neither arteries nor capillaries remained. [[Radio.]] I'm serious. It's a tragic question. I wanted to ask again about the Zdravets section, but I can't ask you any further questions. Indeed, the situation in our regions is tragic. Thank you for this step to at least partially patch these capillaries. Madam Minister, there are not 1,000 people living there, there are about 2,500 people living there, but there may be about 1,000 voters. This will enable the inhabitants of five villages to travel. If I have to rephrase the words of Comrade Todor Zhivkov, I will say that the asphalt is not eaten, but without asphalt there is no delivery of food for the municipality and for the people. That's why I think the roads are very important. There's a sad tale, Minister, that the forests have disappeared in Ludogorie and only the crazy ones are left. I say there are a lot of serious people in Ludogorie, working and hardworking people who make a living. Let there be these combines, let them be heavy to deliver to Bulgaria gross domestic product, and it is our duty and your duty to make the roads of Bulgaria passable in order to have a real economy! Thank you very much. I want to shake your hand for what you said. Thank you. [[National Representative Gunay Hewesmen shakes hands with Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u142	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. After that handshake you probably won't have a douche? A hole, Madam Secretary? Of course not. The next question is from the MP Stefan Georgiev Kenov about an illegal plant. Mr. Kenov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I asked an up-to-date question on 11 August this year with the following content: Directly to the town of Karnobat for four months, to this day, an illegal fertilizer plant has been operating for five months. The smell in the city is unbearable. As far as I know, employees of the RDNC Burgas have carried out an inspection of this facility. Please answer me what are the actions taken to end the activity of this site and what are the sanctions imposed? Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u144	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kenov, in connection with the question you submitted in August, I ordered an inspection of the RDNC Burgas. The regional department carried out this inspection on 24 August, both in the municipality of Karnobat and on site, on the site of the installation. I must stress that it is located in two land properties in the northern industrial zone of the town of Karnobat. It's owned by Agrochance Commerce. The on-the-spot verification in the municipality of Karnobat found that the municipality had not issued any works or documents and consent to install and install this installation. During the on-the-spot verification in the industrial area it was found that the two properties were actually commercial yards, there were previously built commercial buildings that were intended for cow shops. Change in the purpose of either the property or the buildings has not been requested and has not been made. For the installation of the plant for the utilization of bird manure and its conversion into organic manure has not been granted a permit for installation nor is there a co-ordinate file. I can say that, according to the Law on Construction in the category of construction, this does not comply with the definition of construction, as this is installation installation. For this reason, we can only establish what I say before you, with a report that we have provided to the municipality and the owners, but we cannot issue an act to punish and sanction them, as this is not a construction within the meaning of the Law. Apart from that, I would like to inform you that there is also a signal from RIEW Burgas, which has been received and examined due to the unpleasant smells that you mention. An order of 28 July has been issued to impose a forced administrative measure suspending this installation to stop the process. To date, from the data I have, the installation has been shut down and dismantled, so the smell has already been reduced, the construction has been prevented. At the moment, I think the problem has been prevented by all the orders to stop and the checks you have asked, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Kenov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Indeed, after the checks you have carried out, the production and utilization of bird manure has stopped at the site. There's been no smell over the city for about 20 days. I hope that the employees of RIEW in Burgas will do their job, because as soon as the installation does not work, there continues to be a cluster of bird manure that piles up there at large tables. At the moment in the region, which is closer, cannot be compared to what was smell and huge populations of flies. I sincerely thank you because after your intervention this installation has been stopped and eventually a whole city can relax and ventilate its dwellings because it has been impossible all summer. Thank you, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. A hole, Madam Secretary? No. We move on to the next issue by the MP Desislava Valcheva Atanasova on the National Energy Efficiency Programme in multi-family residential buildings. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Dear Minister, The National Energy Efficiency Programme is not only an opportunity for Bulgarian cities to look differently, for Bulgarian business and job opportunities, but also for Bulgarian families, first, to extend the life of their panel homes, and second, to benefit from the energy efficiency of their homes. My question is related to the process of realization of the National Energy Efficiency Programme in the multi-family residential buildings in Montana Municipality and it is provoked by a recent event in Blagoevgrad Municipality, which already has visible results from the functioning of this program, where over 150 contracts have been concluded, where they have investigated and applied for more than 380 buildings. This program will give quality of new life to the homes of more than 25 thousand people in Blagoevgrad municipality. I am interested in what is the situation in Montana Municipality, as municipalities are of great importance in the realization of this project. First of all, that they award public procurement, on the one hand, for an energy and constructive audit of buildings and, on the other hand, for construction and installation activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u151	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, honourable Mrs. Atanasova, yes, it is an undeniable fact that the established National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings has started its activity since February this year and to date we can say that we have over 2300 registered associations of owners throughout the country and over 1600 contracts concluded between municipalities and respectively the owners' associations. Already over 1555 of them have approved real financing and procedures for carrying out energy technical audit and already completed construction. The first building began on June 23rd and August 23rd was opened. So depending on the activity and desire of citizens who live in this type of building and, on the other hand, it is extremely important the activity, the establishment of an organisation in municipalities, because this programme is established on a fully decentralised basis. It is the municipalities that have the leading key role to create good teams, to help wishing owners to form an association and implement their project. It is very important, of course, to conduct open tender procedures for the export of contractors, because through this programme we are looking for the effect and to create work and employment of small and medium-sized companies in the territory of each of the districts and municipalities in which they are realized. With regard to Montana Municipality, what I can say is that from the entire Montana Municipality building fund, the buildings that are eligible and can apply under the programme are 76. Of these 76 buildings, 13 owners' associations are currently registered, and these 13 have already concluded funding contracts with the bank for eight of them. In July the municipality of Montana announced the contract as required by the Technical Energy Audit Programme with six separate positions. This will be an opportunity for all the buildings in question 76, when they register their associations and apply for technical and energy audits. The deadline for the submission of tenders was the beginning of September 3 September and I hope that the municipality will select performers to carry out these activities as soon as possible. However, after carrying out these activities, of course, it is very important for the municipality to take as quickly as possible measures to announce a design and construction procedure as we have given the opportunity under the programme, so that these buildings that are ready, have energy and technical audits, go into the next phase, namely design and construction activities as quickly as possible, because ultimately we need to provide opportunities for these buildings without delay and, hopefully, the winter period, when in winter conditions, it is very difficult to put insulation, roof repair, so that the earlier autumn would be good if they had the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u152	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here's a line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. I am somewhat surprised that only 13 associations of owners of such multifamily residential buildings have decided to renovate their homes. I don't know if it's the lack of enough information. I doubt it, because both you and we as MPs, and everyone on your team made it possible to have an exported reception, round table for the public of the Bulgarian municipalities, and not just the administration of the Bulgarian municipalities to be aware of the benefits of this national programme. I also regret that until September the contract was announced or examined, because this means that these few months by the beginning of 2016, and the first of 2016, which are winter and the conditions do not allow construction and isolation to be worked, will be lost. I hope, however, that in this period the remaining 76 buildings, which have the opportunity to apply for this national programme, will really be included, because this opportunity, on the one hand, will give another very friendly look of Montana Municipality, will save significantly from the heating funds of these Bulgarian families. And, of course, not least, it will create work in Northwestern Bulgaria, which is traditionally held for the poorest region not only in Bulgaria but also in Europe. I hope that the statistics will be changed and as next year was announced for the year of Northwestern Bulgaria, the efforts of the local authorities and the executive will be in this direction. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. A hole? You're giving up the duvet, Madame Minister. With this, the questions to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, are exhausted. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer 5 questions and one question from Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water. The first is a question by the MP Dora Ilieva Yankova about the construction of a geothermal heating system in the town of Zlatograd. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question is extremely important for the economic and economic development of the municipality of Zlatograd, for the perspective of the municipality as the center of balneology, tourism, and for changing the quality of the lives of those living in Zlatograd. The question itself, as the President said, is related to the construction of the geothermal heating system. The project for this system was commissioned in 2008 by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within the frame of the PHARE Programme. Subsequently, following the problems under the PHARE Programme, funds are envisaged under the state budget in 2009 and the first stage of the project begins. This first stage is the geothermal plant in the center of Zlatograd and 40 m pipes. In 2009, with the cabinet Borisov 2, Minister Djankov asked for a resize and redesign of the project itself, which is divided into: - Lot 1, including the water-based facility, which is now being built under the PUDOS, may actually be built; - Lot 2 - the bringing infrastructure from Erma to Zlatograd, which is the most expensive.......................................... from Erma to - Lot 3 - I said, built in 2009; and - Lot 4, which represents the distribution network to public buildings in Zlatograd, to citizens' homes, so that their lives can be eased. They have a priceless wealth of warm water with a temperature of 92 degrees. And to tourist sites, including medical sites, as the water has other characteristics, it is healing. The local community itself is very motivated about the fact that it can change the quality of life, reduce unemployment. Together with the current color, as an ethnographic center, and with many activities related to the presentation of Zlatograd, as one of the most beautiful towns in the Rhodope region and in my constituency, people associate their perspective with this geothermal heating system. Therefore, Madam Minister, please inform me: how will the Ministry in charge of the project support the overall implementation of the project "Development of a geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd"? And if you could, in your response, specify deadlines, resources and partnership with the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer to your question within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, and I begin with a brief chronology complementary to what you have said. The development of the project is based on the hydrothermal resource of the mineral water field, Erma Reka, which is public municipal property. In 2005 a project under the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between Bulgaria and Greece was completed. The Ministry of Environment and Water is a beneficiary of this project and at all stages has supported its development. As you mentioned, the overall project for the thermalization of the town of Zlatograd called "Development of a geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd" is of the total value of more than 18 million indicated by the municipality of Zlatograd. lv. and includes four sub-units: water-based facility, 13 500 m long pipeline, geothermal power plant and urban heat transfer network. The construction of the site started on the basis of a contract concluded between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Public Works. On 18 June 2012, an application for the financing of the project was made in the Environmental Management Company for the construction of a geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd. The application was submitted at a meeting as a result of the discussion by the Governing Council on the grounds that it was about the implementation of an energy saving project. In the scope of the 2009 priority, an area of energy efficiency through the use of a geothermal source for heating of administrative, social and health establishments in the town of Zlatograd, as well as that it is co-financed under a European programme, has been decided to grant up to 3 million grants. 990 thousand. lv. for the construction of an 800 m deep exploration drill, this is the water underground facility, and the above ground construction of the geothermal water supply in the village of Erma Reka. In accordance with that decision, two contracts were concluded. On 7 March 2014, a contract was signed between the PDOOS and the Municipality of Zlatograd to finance the project, sub-unit. The contract is worth nearly 3 million. lv. and is in the process of execution. The construction site was opened on 14 May 2014 and, according to the schedule and two interruptions, completion was foreseen for 3 June 2015, but construction had to be stopped by Act Model 10 on 11 May 2015 due to a defect in the autonomous ground pump management system of equipment arising from poor weather conditions. According to a signed annex between the PDOOS and the Municipality of Zlatograd, implementation is planned to be extended by a little more than two months. At this stage, no model 11 for the continuation of construction has been presented in the PUP. According to the contract, nearly 2 million were accounted for and paid out. lv. The second contract between the PDOOS and the municipality of Zlatograd is to finance the rest, which concerns the conduct of hydrogeological tests and the preparation of a report to assess the operational resource of the newly built water-based facility. This contract amounts to up to 74 thousand. £400. On 7 July 2015, the municipality of Zlatograd deposited an application for grants for the implementation of the project "Development of the geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd", sub-unit 2 "External thermal pipeline from a water supply facility" to the geothermal plant in the town of Zlatograd, amounting to 18 million. 670 thousand. lv. VAT from which it is intended to be received in 2015. 15 million. 251 thousand. lv. With VAT and for 2016 3 million. 419 thousand. lv. with VAT. As you all know, an undisputed priority of the Ministry of Environment and Water is the support of the initiatives of municipalities, which are related to the utilisation of the resource of geothermal energy and mineral waters, geothermal waters in our country. Undoubtedly, this is a project that is important for both the municipality and the economy in the region for the development of local economic activities, of spaturism. Of course, it meets the principles that are related to energy efficiency. As regards the financing, the municipality and the municipality have had talks. What we believe needs to be done is a detailed economic analysis given that the project is revenue-generating. In this sense, available financial resources can be sought through European funding and, in particular, programmes that enable the use of European funds and private resources. These are the programmes that will be available through the Fund Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u158	Thank you, Minister Vassilev. Mrs. Yankova, two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u159	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. In fact, there is a delay in the implementation of the first TPOA contract that you have understood and actually supported. I ask you to specify in the second application of the municipality is nearly 18 and a half million. Will the PUDO allocate additional resources? Since the PDOOS is a collective body, you could make an announcement. You have more members in making a decision. In the local community and in the whole area there are people who speak for you. They say: "This will be done, so will be done, distributed financial resources. I wouldn't want anyone in this way institutionally giving orders except for you and besides the collective body of the PUDOS. On the second question, you have said the European Union's opportunities and other financial instruments that are available. In a conversation with the mayor of the municipality and with business representatives, we debated that once it could be through the PDOOS and other funds of the state to obtain financial resources for the distribution system to public buildings and schools, hospitals and others, where no income and profits were generated. The second time, the preparation. And it is extremely important with the mayor, perhaps in partnership with the state, to create practices to prepare the population for the fact that it will generate natural resources through the municipality. It must be prepared. There's no such company at the moment. Please support the mayor and guide him in this activity. Third, which is economically important.. the development of balneotherapy. There may be a public-private partnership, but in the end, as you are committed to it, I am addressing you on these two issues to clarify and support the mayor in order to be more serious about what he is busy with because it is a serious business initiative.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Madam Minister, you have the right to respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, undoubtedly, as shown by the history of the project, the Ministry supports these initiatives of the municipality. The Ministry supports all municipalities that are willing to use the available resources, either through the opportunities of the municipal fields they exploit, or through the use of the opportunities that we have provided with the amendment of the Water Act and giving the municipalities a chance to exploit the state mineral water fields as well. As far as the specific project is concerned, it is already at its final stage in terms of the preliminary readiness of the municipality. A lot of effort and work has been made in years for this. It is certainly also supported by the local community and cannot be helped by the citizens and the state. As regards the provision of funds, as you have noted, it must be taken into account and analysed from the point of view of the possibilities and eligibility criteria of the various programmes and financial sources. As regards the PUP, as I mentioned, it was submitted for consideration by the municipality, the overall documentation, which is currently under ex ante control. Technical experts are reviewing the paperwork. Grants and national funds can be used to meet public needs, but as far as a broader application is concerned, where income is possible, other financial sources, including public-private partnership, European funding, available through the programmes, as was in the previous programming period, can also be used through the "Jessica" Fund. It's a conversational matter. We have regular meetings with the city. There is also a joint meeting between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the municipality to seek the best option to ensure the support of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u162	Thank you, Minister Vasileva. Mrs. Yankova, please express your attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u163	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! A few principled things have become clear. First, in the project, which is on four modules, module 1 My insistent request to you is on behalf of the Zlatograds, Rhodopeans and of all those who want economic development................................. when considering the request to support Zlatograd to receive by module 2 compulsory resources. This is the largest amount of about 14 million from Zlatograd to Erma. In the fourth module, the distribution unit, I hope that you will once again support at least two modules - one related to public buildings and the other - with the population. It cannot generate profit for itself because it is a cost. There will be very few financial resources left that could be sought further. Since you are acting in principle towards public funds - European and national - it is clear, and perhaps gold towners should understand what is happening in the two governments with the mandate of the government - we have had opportunities to support Zlatograd. Now it's your turn. I take it seriously to you because Dyankov said: "Let's resize it, but now, hopefully, you have raised more money as it manifests. Give them at least for the economic initiative of the municipalities, give them to Zlatograd. They will be necessary. A municipality will strengthen socially and economically and will also change the quality of people's lives. The cabinet of Borisov 2 is on the move. I ask you to give this resource, but when it comes to the resources of the PUDOS, to speak to the Minister, and not to others to give you the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. The following question is from MP Cornelia Petrova Ninova about the water supply of the town of Miziya, Vrachan region. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u165	Madam Minister, one year ago, one month and nine days ago, an unseen wave took the city of Miziya. People lost their homes, their possessions, their crops. One year a month and nine days later they are not compensated even by what is due to them by law. The amount that corresponds to the tax assessment of their houses. They were left at the mercy of fate. These woes are not enough for them, but for the whole period a year, a month and nine days in the city or no water, or if there is, runs black from the taps. There was a period during which the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection informed the residents of the municipality not to use the water for drinking or washing or bathing, as it contains poisonous substances, to put it in general. My question to you is: what is the problem, so that the water supply of the municipality can not be provided for a whole year? Who is responsible for this problem and when will it be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For a response Minister Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, perhaps at the beginning of my reply to make a statement that, according to the order regulated in the Law, the removal of discrepancies from water supply organisations and the limitation of drinking water is carried out by the authorities of state health control to regional health inspections rather than regional environmental and water inspections. You know that under the Water Act, the state policy related to operations, construction, reconstruction and modernization of water systems and facilities is implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the monitoring and quality of drinking water are within the competence of the Minister of Health. The national policy for supply of drinking water is applied on site by the water company. In the case of water supply, Vratsa, as the holder of underground water water permits, has an obligation to carry out its own monitoring and specific requirements for the monitoring sites and water supply monitoring programme used for the water supply of the town of Miziya. The provision of information to the Director of the Swimming Directorate from the carried out own monitoring is a condition for the granted water-use permit. With regard to the requirements of Regulation No 9 on the quality of water intended for drinking and household purposes, water supply organisations shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the population is supplied with safe and clean drinking water. The Dunavski Region Basin Directorate controls the condition and proper operation of the water-based facilities for the use of surface and underground waters and water-based measuring facilities, compliance with the conditions of the permits issued under the Water Act and compliance with the bans and restrictions within the sanitary zones. In April 2015, the locality of Gerena is flooded for nearly 10 days by the high waters of the Skott River following the events that you have also quoted. In May 2015, the drinking qualities of water from drilling wells deteriorated. In this context, a complaint has been lodged at the Pool Directorate of the Dunavski Region (Pleven) for the deterioration of the quality of drinking water on the territory of the town of Miziya. On 15 June 2015, a check was carried out on the Water and Canal Vratsa, by experts from the Swimming Directorate. It has been reported that the water supply has taken action to improve the quality of drinking water, such as the installation of filters on the drawing tank, cleaning and disinfecting of a pressurised water tank and internal plumbing network, replacement of pipelines from the water sources on which the water is fed to Miziya. An order has been issued to the manager of the water company for daily sampling for carrying out an analysis of the quality of drinking water together with RHI Vratsa, and the established Public Council in the city of Miziya. On 28 August a check was carried out on the state of the water supply of the town of Miziya with drinking water by experts of the Swimming Directorate together with representatives of the water company and RZI Vratsa in connection with subsequent control of the complaint. During the verification the representatives of the water company and RZI Vratsa performed a test of the water quality. No deviations from the quality standards have been reported. In conclusion, according to the company's data, there was a breach of water supply mainly during the night due to repairs. With effect from 31 August 2015, according to data from the water supply company, the water supply has been restored 24 hours continuously and the drinking-bit needs of the population are provided. In carrying out its control activities, the Swimming Directorate has taken measures. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Maybe in the back, I can explain what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. In response to the reply in your duplicate you will continue the clarification. Line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u169	Madam Minister, I asked the following questions: who is responsible for the problem? It is clear from your response that these are at least four institutions in the country. You know, outside the conversation we've been having for at least six months, I've been trying to establish the origin of the problem and solve it. The Ministry of Environment and Water says: "The Ministry of Regional Development has responsibility because it is responsible for the pipeline. The Regional Ministry says: "The responsibility has health care because it controls the quality of water. The health care says: go to the water and water, Vratsa, who have to make projects, to apply to replace the system. Vratsa says: The Mayor must provide us with information to solve the problem. So eight months. This is just absurd! If we have to put together a joint effort, a legislative, executive, what, but to align the regime, responsibility, because this transfer from one ministry to another, except that it took us eight months to resolve the issue, left these people in the summer months, in the big heat without water. I'm surprised you didn't catch an epidemic there. To my second question: when will the problem be solved? You say he's determined. There's water and it's good for using the quality of water. I say the opposite. I was in the city three days ago, there is water mode and at least the colour of the water shows that it is not quality. Please don't underestimate this question! The city was depopulated due to the flood. A lot of people left. Those who remain are struggling with some handy means to restore their lives and their houses and their families. Let's at least not put this on their heads. Something that is absolutely necessary for their daily lives to have at least water to drink, let us resolve this, and from now on, let us stop arguing about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u170	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mrs. Ninova, I do not think this is about a dispute, it is about, as you mentioned, good partnership and coordination between the authorities, each of which has legally regulated powers and responsibilities. As regards initiatives related to improving the water system in the territory of the town of Miziya, I can assure you that in the previous period there have been opportunities, unfortunately unused by the municipality, due to the fact that mostly the lack of sufficient readiness has prevented the realization of a project and the use of financial resources under the Operational Programme. A technical assistance project has been launched, which regardless of the financial resources provided, the Municipality of Miziya has failed to fulfil the planned activities and has been terminated, and has accordingly applied with incomplete documentation and incomplete project readiness for implementation of activities related to expansion, rehabilitation and modernisation of the water infrastructure. As you know, during the new programming period there is a clear framework at national level and opportunities for use of the financial resource available under the Operational Programme. They are based on regional pre-investment studies prepared by water companies and beneficiaries, municipalities, water associations. These are the structures that must work jointly under the leadership of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which have already launched the initiative to award the development of these documents. These framework documents will draw up the priority investments that can subsequently be financed through the available funds under the Operational Programme of the Environment. You know that Vratsa District is an area on which a water operator operates. In this sense, this is a eligible beneficiary and a project for the modernisation of the facilities can be prepared. As regards the current operating activity, it is controlled by the authorities, I am referring to the activity of providing quality drinking water, according to their competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u172	Thank you. There is a question from the National Representative Nevin Hassan about the measures the Ministry of Environment and Water will take to protect against the harmful effects of the waters and to prevent floods in the village of Dolec, Dulovo Municipality and the agricultural land in the village of Paisievo, Dulovo. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Vassileva! In 2014 the flooded village of Dolec, the municipality of Dulovo was flooded and several houses collapsed completely and many others were flooded. The Ministry of Environment and Water is informed about this flood. In February 2015, the village of Dolce was flooded again due to heavy rainfall. At present, the village is flooded with a continuous stream of water with different intensity. This water comes from the village of Kara Michal, the municipality of Samuil, Razgrad, passes through the land of the village of Paisievo, the municipality of Dulovo and reaches the village of Dolec, the municipality of Dulovo. As far as I know, the source of this continuous water stream is the water gathered in a locality in the village of Kara Michal, the municipality of Samuel, about 250 square meters. km. Near this lake there is also a dam given on concession. After the great flood in 2014 this water bay constantly as the agricultural land in the village of Paisievo, Dulovo municipality and the road between the village of Kitanchevo, the municipality of Isperih and the village of Paisievo, the municipality of Dulovo, and also the agricultural land in the village of Dolec, the municipality of Dulovo. It goes through the territory of the village of Dolec. The water on the road is over half a meter, reaching up to 70 cm, and under water are about four kilometers from it. Currently, the following farmers from the village of Paisievo, whose fields and orchards are entirely under water, are affected as follows: Rafed Suleiman, Mehmet Arif, Sadak Efraim, Erdinch Sulejman, Baytic Emile...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u174	Ask the question, Mrs. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u175	Mesru Ahmed, Lutvi Rufi, Hamid Necdet, Ephraim Arif, Tanner Basrin...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u176	Ask the question, Mrs. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u177	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. It is a great concern to the inhabitants of the village of Dolec, Dulovo municipality that at the beginning of the autumn season and associated rainfall the houses and streets of the village will be flooded again. The village has not recovered from the flood in 2014 and this is from the beginning of 2015. The constantly flowing water creates more than reasonable fears of a new flood in its inhabitants. In this regard, my questions to you are as follows: What actions have been taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water and its regional structures since 2014 to address the problem? What actions will you take to end the flood of the agricultural land in the village of Paisievo and Dolec village, Dulovo Municipality; on the road between the village of Kitanchevo, the municipality of Isperih and the village of Paisievo, the municipality of Dulovo, and also the village of Dolec, the municipality of Dulovo? What measures will you take to avoid another flood in the village of Dolce again? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. What are the time parameters of these actions and measures with a view to approaching the autumn season, which is traditionally linked to heavy rains in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u178	I ask you very much that the honourable Members do not feel obliged to read everything they have written, because there is a regulation on which a question is asked. Time is two minutes. You've delayed it considerably three and a half minutes. Please keep the time, because there will be colleagues, they will not be able to ask their questions in today's parliamentary control. Madam Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hassan, the main reason for the flooded part of the agricultural land in the lands of the village of Paisievo and the village of Dolec, Dulovo, are the fallen precipitation with great intensity in a very short time, which has contributed to the rapid formation of large quantities of water masses. The data and statistics of the National Institute of Metrology and Hydrology (NIMH) of BAS show that in February this year the precipitation was significant for this period of the year. The drain formed on the country's territory in February 2015 exceeded 45% of the drain formed in January 2015 and is five times the drain formed in February 2014. I inform you that in relation to the specific case for which you are making the question, by order of 25 August 2015 of the regional governor of Silistra District has been appointed Interdepartmental Commission. It includes representatives of the regional structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW), as well as representatives of other responsible institutions. On 27 August 2015, a flood survey was carried out, a road section linking the villages of Paisievo. The view was attended by the district governor, the mayor of the village of Paisievo, representatives of the municipality of Dulovo, of the municipality of Razgrad, It is found that there is a flooded road section and agricultural land around it. The road is from the fourth-class road network and is managed by Dulovo Municipality, Silistra District. The road connecting the villages of Paisievo is not fully completed. About two kilometers from flooding road section there is no pavement laid, but only crushed stone pavement. The water flowing from the village of Kitanchevo to the village of Paisievo passes through agricultural lands, where it has made two large spills due to the small slope of the terrain. A prerequisite has been created for sweeping the land, the road is impenetrable, and farmers do not have access to their land. On the basis of the analysis and evaluation of the experts of the committee, conclusions and recommendations have been made to solve the problem, including taking urgent action to drain the road; as a temporary measure, a gravel dump; for a lasting solution to the problem of flooding to start building a drainage channel. For prevention of floods it is necessary District Administration.Silistra to undertake activities to prepare a project and implement a correction of the ravine in the section from the road village of Kitanchevo to the village of Todorovo, from the village of Todorovo to the village of Paisievo on the basis of hydrological studies; preparation of a preliminary project for prevention of flooding of the village of Dolec, Silistra district. According to the provisions of the Water Act and the Municipal Property Act, specific measures and construction of the facilities for protection against the harmful effects of the water in the village of Dolek, the municipality of Dulovo should be undertaken, the mayor of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Hassan, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for that answer. Nevertheless, I will also give you a picture of this issue, because I am aware of this problem and I am observing these floods in Dulovo Municipality, so that you have a real idea of what they are encountering there not only the population, but also those farmers that I have tried to read the names of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Hassan. Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u183	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u184	Thank you, too. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water is from the MP Petar Slavov on measures to limit the volume of harmful emissions emitted by cars and encourage the use of more environmentally friendly cars. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, my question really concerns the volume of harmful emissions that are emitted from cars and what measures the Ministry provides to encourage the use of more environmentally friendly and modern cars, because it is no secret that the regulations in this area are quite outdated. Dear Minister, recently, during the debate: The Nine Way to EU Funds The changes aim to encourage the acquisition and use of new and greener cars and to gradually replace and subtract older cars. However, the amount of relief is not high and this good measure will probably not be effective enough in itself. Additional incentives to limit the purchase and use of old and heavily polluting cars and encourage them to replace them with newer and more environmentally friendly than the category It is noted that in the current regulatory framework, the envisaged reliefs are quite outdated, often symbolic or also non-working, and modern cars, for example, of the so-called "hybrid type', which are extremely environmentally friendly and by their indicators are close to electric ones, are not regulated at all. That is, the latter are treated in the general order, in the same way with traditional cars with an internal combustion engine. Moreover, in the current regulatory framework, the discriminatory formula for the unjustified increase of the tax payable under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for New Vehicles continues to apply by multiplying it by a coefficient which is the higher the newer, of course, and more environmentally friendly the car. In view of the above, Madam Minister, please answer the following question: Do you foresee, along with changes in the ecotax and other measures, including through a legislative initiative through the Council of Ministers, other reliefs in the acquisition and use of newer and more environmentally friendly cars and the gradual replacement of old and stronger polluting cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, as you have noted, this is an extremely important policy that is followed not only by the Ministry of Environment and Water, but also by all departments, and is an element of government policy. A policy concerning the introduction of measures to reduce air pollution and the transition to a low-carbon economy. As you mentioned, the issue of ecotaxes concerns the need to pay a product fee on the basis of the Ordinance on the definition of the order and amount of payment of the product fee for products after the use of which widespread waste is generated. The types of vehicles for which a product fee is due are defined in Directive 2053 of the European Community on end-of-life vehicles. These are all vehicles of category M1 or N1 and three-wheel motor vehicles, but without three-wheel motorcycles as defined in the Road Traffic Act. The aim of the changes proposed and initiated by the Ministry of Environment and Water towards reducing the product fee for new cars and increasing the product fee for old cars is to stimulate the purchase of new cars that pollute less and limit the use of old cars. The change in the product fee will be consistent with the economic situation in the country and the social status of the population. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees, on the other hand, provides for payment of a vehicle tax depending on the power of the engines and the year of production. Tax reductions are regulated for electric cars, as well as for cars depending on engine power, Euro-Categorisation and the presence of catalysts. In 2012, at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Environment and Water, a National Action Plan was developed to promote the production and accelerated entry of environmental vehicles, including electric mobility in Bulgaria for the period 2012-2014. Taking into account that the duration of the National Plan is up to 2014 and taking into account its action and the measures taken, steps have been taken to develop a new long-term strategic document to define the national policy framework in this area. It should be stressed that this activity is also included as a priority measure in the Programme of the Government for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the other hand, a step was taken at the end of 2014 towards the adoption at European level of the Directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure aimed at ensuring a minimum number of charge points and charging stations with alternative fuels, electricity, hydrogen and natural gas in the European Union with a deadline for transposition 18 November 2016. At national level, the development of legislation has already begun to transpose this directive. The first meeting of the working group involving representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water and led by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications took place on 6 September this year. Given the correlation of everything that has been said so far, a report to the Council of Ministers has proposed the development of a new integrated, long-term strategic document to define the national policy framework for the promotion of innovation, research and development and the production of non-polluting vehicles with alternative fuels, to increase their confidence and consumer demand and to deploy infrastructure in the alternative fuel market. To organise this task is entrusted to the ministries of economy and transport as the Ministry of Environment and Water supports and supports these efforts and this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u188	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you that in your reply you came out of the narrower subject of ecotax and affected the overall strategy in this area. I was under the impression that you also share that the regulations and many things in Bulgaria are more backward and do not correspond to the current state of things in Europe and the understanding of how to encourage the use of more environmentally friendly cars, including hybrid, electric and so on. Especially in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which I believe date back about 15 years, have several rather restrictive restrictions that definitely do not correspond to the modern understanding of a cleaner and more environmentally friendly car. Here I refer to the limit of 74 kilos, I think it was so that the discount for the classes could be used for the classes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In practice, they are extremely close to pure electric cars, as in urban conditions they can travel nearly a hundred kilometers of electricity only and do not pollute the environment at all. All of this is gone and they are practically aligned in the general order of the standard internal combustion vehicle. Adding the problem with this table, which I mentioned, this coefficient, which for me really borders on the absurdness of the newer and more environmentally friendly car, the higher the local tax to be charged, with the ratio for the newest to almost three, and at the same time for the older ones who are over 15 years, the coefficient is a unit, meaning there is no price. These are all things that I think could really be reconsidered and considered a more adequate policy in this area. I would also mention that, as you very well know, in a number of Western European countries there are serious incentives to buy more environmentally friendly and newer cars -- including 5000 euros, as far as I know -- in Germany they are given to buy an electric or hybrid car -- the Czech Republic, Belgium and so on -- not to list them all. There are indeed many measures that simulate and which are missing here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, do you want a jacket? You don't want to. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the construction of the dam near Sevlievo.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u191	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, colleagues, at least those who remain in this Chamber. One very important question I will ask you, which concerns tens of thousands of people in the Sevliev region. This is about the construction of a dam near Sevlievo. A dam that's been under construction for over 50 years. I just remind you that more than 50 years ago, the solution to the growing problem of providing drinking water was decided to build a dam, but due to urgent problems at that time, it was postponed. However, over the years, Madam Minister, the lack of water extends to an increasing area and the duration of the period where there is no water reaches seven months, seven critical months in which the people in this region of Sevliev region are literally without water. And in the dramatic days of 1991, the year 2001 was marked a four-hour water supply once a week in the town of Sevlievo, with no water in some of the villages of Sevlievsko for weeks. In the late 1980s, construction of the dam started, but in 1995 it was frozen again. Of course, again on financial issues. I will tell you, purely statistically, financially statistically, that the value of the dam to date is EUR 40 million, which means that in the 20 years since the absence of this facility, the state has lost revenue for at least 20 dams, and the problem of drinking water remains the same, even more severe. If this dam is built, its location meets the European Union's energy efficiency requirements, so we will be supported by the European Commission. It will meet another European Union requirement to reduce the risk of flooding. Let me remind you before I ask you the question that last year there was a foreign investor who was willing to build the facility against a hydropower concession. My question to you is specific: do you expect me to clarify the current state of this priority for 66 settlements in 4 municipalities? I ask you to persuade the listed state institutions to take management action in this strategic direction for the region. As I said in the beginning, it is vital for the people of Sevliev region to end this water terror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u192	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u193	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable Members of the House. Dear Mr. Enchev, I certainly share your view of the need to take action to ensure sufficient quantity and quality of drinking water for the citizens of Sevlievo. This is a question which we have repeatedly discussed with the municipality, with the mayor of the municipality. It's an effort that's supported over the years. As for more detailed information, given the debates a little earlier, perhaps it is nice to note that the detailed information about the progress in the preparation of this project, given the competences of the ministries, can be obtained by the colleagues of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I also mean for more details................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, with regard to the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water, as you know, when carrying out national policy related to the operations of operation and construction of reconstruction and modernisation of water supply and sewerage systems and the facilities of settlements to protect against the harmful effects of water, priority should be given to implement the programmes of measures in river basin management plans that are being developed at the pool level. Also, plans to manage flood risks. Currently under update is the river basin management plan in the region by the Danube Basin Directorate. It will cover the period from 2016 to 2021. Water shortages and drought related to climate change are potential problems that will be included in the review of identified significant problems in water management and will include specific objects to future programmes of measures. The planned measures related to water shortages and drought will also take into account the predictions, alternatives and priority of planned activities in regional general water and sewerage plans aimed at improving water supply services in order to meet the requirements of the European directives and our national legislation, which will enable the needs of the population and business to ensure adequate water supply. You know that during the period 2012 - 2014 were prepared and awarded by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Regional Master Plans. In particular, there is a regional master plan developed and established in 2014, which includes short-term, medium-term and long-term measures. These are investment programmes where all sub-units of the water supply system are primarily described, which must be constructed and reconstructed. It is an interesting point that in the first version of the preparation of this document another alternative was envisaged for water supply, but after discussions at the Municipal Council of Sevlievo Municipality, after an opinion expressed by the mayor, the expected version of the building of the dam was adopted as the decision to ensure permanent quality water supply. As far as the Ministry of Environment and Water is concerned, we support the implementation of projects through the Operational Programme. So maybe here is the step that needs to be taken.The strengthening of the water operators in order to be able to be a beneficiary of free funding under the Operational Programme "Environment" if the funds needed for the construction of the dam will be used by the Operational Programme "Environment". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u194	Thank you. Mr. Enchev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u195	Madam Minister, I understand from your words that you have an understanding of the problem, but you did not mention at any time that your ministry supports the construction of the dam. That sentence in your statement is gone. I hope in the line that you will have after me, to dispel these doubts of mine. I'll just tell you that if we believe the commitments adopted by the previous three governments, two of them are yours, the current and previous ones, the strip of the dam was supposed to be cut last year. But, I recall: this is the drinking water supply hydropower, which, if built, will provide the necessary water for 66 settlements from four municipalities in the districts of Gabrovo and Lovech. I'm not just talking about Sevlievo here. Sevlievo, I mention it, so geographically speaking, is a dam that should be located near Sevlievo. Since I see that there is an understanding on your part, let me recommend, of course, by using the experts' opinion, which are the steps that your ministry, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, must take and it seems to me that they are quite constructive. That's three steps. First, clarification of the size and ownership of the terrains needed for the cup and sanitary zones of the dam, assessment of the properties with subsequent compensation. Secondly, you need to prepare an environmental impact assessment report for the future dam. Thirdly, last but not least, the preparation for a public procurement for designers, construction supervision and construction of the site. If you truly support this idea and indeed the promise of your first government is serious, I think you should take these three steps, at least these three steps, of course, I hope you will point out the same. And once again, the citizens of Lovesko, Gabrovo and especially of the Sevliev region have suffered severe pain for 65 years and perhaps this is the city in which in winter are the lowest temperatures and in summer the highest. This is a vital strategic object for them. I'm stressing a vital one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u196	Thank you. Madam Minister, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! Since you mentioned that you have not heard clearly formulated support, the Ministry of Environment and Water supports the implementation of this project. As for the concrete steps and actions to be taken, you described some of the steps. They are related to preliminary preparation, to the process of the documents under the Law on Construction of the Area, according to the environmental legislation. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Environment and Water does not prepare environmental impact assessments but evaluates them and accordingly issues adoption or not assessment reports, but we have a full understanding of the need to implement this project, the priority of the project. As I said, from the point of view of our commitments, it is to comply with legislation, to ensure to the maximum extent quality and sufficient quantity of drinking water for the population, this is a top priority for us. I am convinced that both I and my colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the municipality, the water company will make the best efforts to make this project happen. Otherwise, funding can be provided, as I mentioned, under the Operational Programme of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water is from the MP Stefan Kenov about an illegal plant. Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! A month ago, I asked the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Vasileva about a working illegal plant near the town of Karnobat. In the town of Karnobat for four months, an illegal fertilizer plant has been operating. The smell in the city is unbearable. As far as I know, employees of RIEW Burgas have done checks. Please answer me what are the actions taken to end the activity of this site, and what is the sanction imposed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u200	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kenov! In response to your question about the actions taken to end the activity of the bird manure plant in Karnobat, I inform you of the following: on 26 May 2015 and 1 June 2015 in relation to those received in the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, the city of Burgas signals the presence of unpleasant smells in the town of Karnobat by experts of the Inspection have been carried out inspections of an agricultural production company located in the yard of the former state agricultural holding in Karnobat, owned by Agroshans Kommers. It is found that on the production site is located an installation for the utilization of fresh bird manure and its conversion into organic manure, which at the time of the checks is not working. Outside the boundaries of the site and the town of Karnobat an unpleasant smell is not felt. By letter of the Regional Inspectorate dated 18 June 2015, the manager of the company "Agroshans Komers" EOD are given provisions for the provision of information about the installation, purpose, technological scheme, technological parameters and the nature of the production activity carried out at the site. The provisions have not been complied with within the prescribed time limit for which the companies have been drawn up an act of established administrative infringement and a criminal decree was issued on 28 August 2015 which imposed a penalty of 5000 BGN to the city of Karnobat. At the initiative of the Regional Inspectorate on 27 July a joint inspection of the company was carried out by experts of the Inspectorate and representatives of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Burgas and RZI Burgas. It is found that the plant for the utilization of fresh bird manure and its conversion into organic manure works. In the hall of the installation are available piles of ready-made products. An unpleasant specific smell is felt, both from the installation itself and from the open areas with manure waste. No procedure under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act has been conducted for the activity of the site. In this regard, the Director of the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Water in Burgas has issued an order for the implementation of a forced administrative measure suspending the operation of the installation. An act has been drawn up for the administrative infringement of the manager and a criminal decree has been issued on 1 September 2015. On 21 August 2015, an on-the-spot check was carried out by Regional Inspection experts and the installation was found to have been dismantled. Finally, I would like to assure you that one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Environment and Water is carrying out an effective control activity and in this regard the Regional Inspection in Burgas will continue to carry out strict control of the site of implementation of the requirements of European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kenov for a reply to Minister Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Vasileva! Thank you for your action. As it became clear a little earlier than Mrs. Pavlova's reply, the country has done its job at the moment, indeed this installation has been dismantled. The only problem at the moment is the large amount of fresh organic manure that is on the site. We understand that the installation has been dismantled, but eventually there is a very large amount of fresh manure that is loaded by poultry farms. It's not as big a problem as it used to be, but there's still a pretty big smell and swarms of flies in the area. As the MP and leader of the list from GERB, you have received the most votes in Karnobat and I ask you with a better eye to look at the municipality and indeed this case to be brought to the end and not to allow any more illegal actions that permanently damage and reduce the quality of life of the residents of Karnobat, who could not open their windows from this installation for several months in the summer. I'm really asking you to bring this case to the end, to remove this fertilizer from the site. For the actions taken, I sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u204	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u205	In a nutshell, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Mr. Kenov! Of course, we've been keeping an eye on this case from the very beginning when the signals came in. As it became clear from the reply, the colleagues from the Regional Inspection responded immediately. All measures have been taken and I can assure you that the case continues to be followed. Everything that needs to be done will be done so as to prevent such damage to the environment and, of course, as you know, the unpleasant smells that plagued residents. In other words, sanctions have also been taken, and forced administrative measures have been taken by the control authorities, which will continue their next control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u206	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. This was the last question to the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. Thank you for her time and wish her a good job. We move on to questions to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. The first question to be answered is by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Krasimir Yankov concerning registered anthrax disease in Varna region. Please, Mr. Yankov, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I must make it clear that this question is asked on 21 July 2015. It has been postponed twice, but with a view to delaying the response and I will still try to explain to you, Minister, and to the Bulgarian citizens from the point of view of threats to future such registered anthrax diseases, specifically in Varna. Cattle anthrax was registered in the village of Mladna Guard, Vetrino municipality, Varna district. In the media, there was information that the disease of the people was controlled. Our question concerns the responsibility of the veterinary authorities. According to the current Animal Treatment Act and the implementation of a mandatory state preventive programme, anthrax vaccines must be carried out in March of that year. Is there a breach in use and what measures does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take to locate anthrax disease from the specific case? In other words, my question is, in reverse, what are the measures taken and what is the responsibility of veterinary officials and services?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u208	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Taneva, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Yankov! You and the National Assembly were on vacation in August, so I couldn't have been on parliamentary control during that time, since Parliament didn't work in August. The case of anthrax in the village of Young Guard, I think it was too detailed and explained in the media. We gave her all the information we had about the measures we had taken. The case is clear as to how it came about. Maybe in the time I have and have, so I don't repeat all this unless you hold, I can tell you numbers. Regarding vaccination, in the village of Young Guard until detection of the diseased anthrax animal, from the death of the farmer whose animal was the animal was not included in the State Prevention Programme for Vaccines, for the simple reason that anthrax was last established there 44 years ago, in 1971. In our country, according to the State Prevention Program, are subject to vaccination 158 settlements in 19 districts of the country, both this year and every year back, cases of anthrax have been registered in Bulgaria. However, under the State Prevention Programme, animals are vaccinated in these 158 settlements from 19 districts where these animals have been found and registered for the last 30 years. In this case, the animals in the village of Young Guard were not subject to vaccination and are not part of the State Prevention Program. Even if it had been done, they would still not have been vaccinated and this case would still have happened, provided that the farmer had not yet fulfilled his obligation under the Veterinary Activity Act. Now vaccination against anthrax has been carried out on all animals in the village.. 239 cattle, 224 sheep, 106 goats and 15 equine animals. The situation is under control, all the measures that have been put in place to liquidate the outbreak, to date have already been abolished, because this is all over. In order to prevent the penetration and spread of the disease, vaccination was also carried out in neighbouring lands, a total of 944 sheep, 627 cattle and 34 equidae. Until 10 September 2015, there were no new outbreaks of the disease in the entire municipality of Vetrino, Provadia, as well as the whole Varna region. We also announced the measures that we had taken into account the risk of spreading infection among people, given that the moment had been missed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As soon as I announce, I will finish my answer in the next duplicate, to which I am entitled also as the finale of the case for which we have widely informed the public, we have also revoked the permission to carry out the work of the conservatory. It has been closed since mid-August, which is also part of the chain of infringement, the latter which violates and without the relevant certificates purchased the slaughtered animal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u210	Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, from what you have said, the village of Mladna Guard, the municipality of Vetrino will be included in the state preventive programme from now on. This does not preclude the finding which you have confirmed that by March this same state preventive programme for the 158 settlements in question in 19 districts has not been carried out. With regard to the cutting room, please reply if you have any information, since the responsibility for the slaughterhouse in question and is generally the responsibility of the veterinary authorities, and each site has an inspector responsible, are there sanctions to officials for omissions in their work, because unregulated meat has reached the cutting-off and end-users. This is also a question for you, if you cannot answer, by what I say, I aim to challenge your verification that an inspector has been responsible for the planter in question without the necessary qualifications with a course of food safety and not a veterinarian, as is the requirement for veterinary fitness. From what has been said so far by me and you, we need to summarize to the residents of Varna that it is a joint work between veterinary services and representatives of local authorities, when it comes to such cases, even more here there is a death case. This happens in a municipality where the professional qualification of the acting mayor is a veterinarian, which is even more disturbing for people living in the municipality. It seems to me that there should be concrete work here of the prosecution and investigating bodies against those who are responsible for the emergence, spread of the disease and for the lack of preventive measures and activities, including to the local authorities and to the mayor of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u212	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Minister, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u213	Mr. Yankov, please don't twist my words. Animals in the village of Young Guard did not serve until the outbreak of anthrax was discovered. That's what I explained! [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] They are not subject to and vaccination has not been carried out because they have not been vaccinated. It was carried out after the outbreak was discovered and they entered the vaccination programme from next year. They will be vaccinated following the rule on the determination of outbreaks and the vaccination plan if anthrax is detected in the last 30 years. That's what we're gonna do for the next prevention program, not for this year's instead. The 30-year period will set a period of 50 years in order to protect against the risks that have appeared or when the relevant procedures are completed. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The immunity created after vaccination is one year. Regarding your next question about the doctor, the official doctor who should control the delivery of meat in the shop, whether the inspector had the necessary censure, I will check, I cannot say right now. The truth is that everyone working in a particular position must have the necessary education. I don't know who accepted and appointed him, nor can I be in charge of the qualifications. I hope she's who she should be. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Yes, we have the death of the farmer, the owner of the sick animal, who sees the animal dying in the evening, probably drive him with the idea of not losing a few hundred leva without any risk from there and without fulfilling any obligation under the Veterinary Activity Act. He neither privately informs the practitioner with whom he has a contract, not to mention that he is a man of the village and should know what is going on with the herds with which he has a contract, nor informs the mayor of the settlement, the village or the official doctor. I'm gonna do one more thing. Yes, I am very sorry about the family's death, but if a single person doing a certain activity, whatever it is, does not comply with basic principles in order to first preserve his own health and life, what about the assessment of the remaining risk?! I can give an example of it, and it came out in public, with the outbreak and diseases of brucellosis. The official doctor says that the animal is sick and subject to euthanasia, that it should be destroyed, and the next day it cars, cooks and gathers friends to drink and not waste. That's what I'm saying. [[Replications from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov and the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u214	Don't go into lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u215	We cannot place an official doctor on every manufacturer and general "the entire Bulgarian Food Safety Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u216	You mean there's no guilt?!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u217	On the contrary, the first person to be guilty is the deceased. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u218	But they have to!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u219	Mr. Yankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u220	Of course, everyone in the chain is grounded, the cutting room is even closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u221	Time's up, Minister. You're going into private lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u222	Only a private practitioner is punished by the Ethical Commission of the Private Veterinary Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u223	Mr. Iankov, you'll have time when the controls are over to clear up the case with Mrs. Minister. The next question to Minister Taneva is from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Svetoslav Belemezov about the effective distribution of municipal pastures and measures according to the real needs of livestock farmers. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, to develop your question to Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Animal farmers from all over the country, in particular from the municipality of Petrich, gave timely signals about the problems caused by the local administration related to municipal measures, meadows and pastures. According to them, municipalities hinder farmers in their efforts to develop this sector locally. Pastures are distributed which do not meet the requirements of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, while non-farmers benefit from favorable and easily accessible terrains such as measure and pasture. On the other hand, livestock farmers who develop real production receive certain areas, but unfortunately those of which no more than 20 to 30 per cent can be effectively used. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, my question to you is as follows: will the amendments and additions that are expected to enter into force by the beginning of next year be able to achieve the necessary effect? What measures will the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take to implement the bill adopted at second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u225	For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u226	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Mr. Belemezov, firstly, since I assume that the question has been raised earlier, the amendment in question of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land was adopted definitively in the last week before Parliament's vacation and procedures are currently being carried out by the local authorities on the distribution of permanent grassland between livestock farmers. Firstly, I would like to start by saying that the Minister of Agriculture and Food, or the Ministry, exercises the rights of management of the State Land Fund, including the distribution of measures, pastures and meadows between livestock farmers. It's out of our hands to control the local authorities. The fact is, in my personal observation, that some of the local authorities quickly, others slowly adopted the changes to the law on ownership and use of agricultural land. We are receiving many reports of violations in these procedures from local authorities, but we are not a body that can control this process of local authorities. In this sense, my advice to them is on the acts by which they are allocated to refer to the relevant authorities which, under the Law on Local Self-government, can impose and exercise such control. I would like to say that despite all the difficulties, however, in the first amendment of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land in this sense nearly 1 million. The decares were allocated to farmers in the new order. With the amendment that we finally adopted in July, we refined the texts and added another restriction, which after 1 February next year, when, including contracts for the use of merri, pasture and meadows, will only be eligible for support if they have the relevant number of animals. And we have signed in the Law, which must be implemented, and the corresponding sanctions for mayors who fail to fulfil their obligations under the Law. At the present time, a procedure for the distribution of merri, pasture and meadows is under way again, and the volume of areas proposed is relatively the same size. From then on, following the analysis of the first direct payment campaign between 27 and 30% is the volume of areas declared for which there were no animals. On the other hand, these users also. We are informed that they are making efforts to purchase the relevant number of animals. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Maybe in the back, I'll finish the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u227	The line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u228	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. I believe that with the amendments and additions to the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, serious problems in the field of Bulgarian livestock farming are solved and certain imperfections that existed in the current law are eliminated. I very much hope that, after 1 February 2016, we will have the opportunity to finally put in full order pastures, measure and meadows and their use, hoping that it will be intended. The law settles a large part of the problems at national level, but at the moment at local and municipal level the problems themselves continue to exist, one of them being that real livestock farmers who are engaged in real activity are almost driven to the outermost pastures and at the same time the passage of their animals takes several kilometers to not say tens of kilometers. And last but not least, many of these measures and pastures end up being low-productive and unable to satisfy the needs of animals. We in our parliamentary group believe that it is essential to conduct a comprehensive review by committees, which should include, in addition to representatives of regional and municipal agriculture services, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and we believe that these committees should also identify how many of the pastures, meres and meadows have been broken down and unofficially changed their purpose. We believe that this is extremely necessary because Bulgaria is one of the countries with an extremely low proportion of measures, pastures and meadows, approximately 9% at a European Union average of around 33%. This means that we will be very difficult to increase the number of pasture animals on which the number in the years back has been relatively high. Thank you for your reply and I hope that the efforts made by the Ministry in the coming years will result in the necessary results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u229	Would you like to use a hole, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u230	I would just like to supplement the answer from the first part and complement the answer to the topics that have now been put. What we did to respond to these difficulties in the second amendments to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, which were adopted in the last week prior to the summer vacation, is that those of the permanent grassland that are outside the eligible layer, if they are distributed in the first year, will not pay the fixed rental price. Secondly, in the framework of the allocation procedure for this fund, users who, until this year of distribution, have used such a fund and have the required number of animals, which achieves the condition of the allocation of the same amount of permanent grassland, remain in the same used properties as they have incurred the relevant costs of cleaning them and bringing them into good agricultural condition. With regard to the resource we have, yes, it is lower, especially after the years of transition, when in a certain period of time and many of the lands were deserted, Bulgaria reached about 10 million. acres of pastures, merri and meadows that were used before 1989 to feed pasture animals. Currently, these permanent grasslands are about 3 and a half million acres that are eligible and supported. However, the remaining resources up to 10 million. Dekara, there is really no way to learn a part because some of them are permanently grassed, some have become forests, and under the Forests Act, there is no way they can be pastures again. With regard to the ploughing of pastures, administrative provisions exist for the implementation of administrative liability in breach of this requirement. The collection rate is not particularly high, as the method of detection is also more difficult. Perhaps in this aspect we should consider increasing penalties.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u231	Thank you, Minister Taneva. And a final question for you and in general in today's parliamentary control will be that of the MP Georgi Bojinov on the work of the Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u232	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The season of hails is over. My question is to find an answer to the question which of the problems that gave me reason to ask it more than two months ago remain unresolved today. When I wrote my question to you, Mrs. Minister, I had reason to note that at the Executive Agency there are sharp and difficult problems that do not tolerate delay and inaction of the Ministry anymore. Such problems are the number of staff, working conditions, humiliating salaries and a number of others. The problems will not be solved unless decent salaries are provided for 758 people and that is exactly what they are needed for the work of the Agency on the standards for the implementation of state policy for the protection and prevention of adverse natural phenomena. The money for 583 workers and employees cannot pay the remuneration of 758 people. No solution can be sought by providing mainly the employees in the offices and administration at the expense of the people who work at the command stations and the adjoining 200 rocket sites in the districts of Vratsa, Pleven, Montana, Vidin, Pazardzhik, Sliven, Stara Zagora and Plovdiv. My question to you is: what prevents you from optimizing work, working conditions and paying workers in this extremely important area? Then I asked you, "When will you find a solution to these problems? " - Now, two months later, the current question is: what have you done and what are the solutions you have found at this time?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u233	For a response Minister Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u234	Madam President, Mr. Bozhino! It is great, I am waiting for you to offer me: who is this governor, who can find a solution in two months to the problems in the Executive Agency with the cities and cities in the terms of the budget adopted by the National Assembly for 2015?! I'm gonna take it special. It's not serious. I'm just answering in the same spirit of your question as you're asking me. In terms of numbers and of the general administration, given your speech. Since 2008 the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Agency have been amended several times, and as of 12 August 2008 the number of the Agency has been 823 stats, as of 29 August 2008 723 stats, as of 13 November 2009 the number has been reduced to 598 stats and in 2013 the total number has been reduced to 593 stats. The number of staff in the Agency's general administration shall be 33 staff members, or 4% of the total number of staff. I answer that, given your thesis, that most of the employees are hardly the administration. So that's not true. With regard to working conditions and salaries, we should not even start with the question, because it is part of the common mechanism of operation of the Executive Agency. Both the salaries and all the resources the system operates with are entirely on budget support. They are certainly insufficient, but such a mechanism of functioning of such a body, such as the Executive Agency, is nowhere in the other European countries. Surely if it functions that way, there is no way we can improve the conditions. According to the budget framework that was voted on, the way the Agency was set up is the same as last year's pό with a shortage of funding, low wages. Since the second half of the year in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we have been working in communication with branch organizations, because in most of them we are already ready with consensus to adopt another model for the implementation of anti-city protection, with another model of funding, which will allow for an increase in the areas covered by the anti-city protection system [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and solving issues with chronic financial shortages. I'm gonna finish up in my asshole.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u235	A line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u236	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! I propose another methodological approach to solving this issue.. not how difficult it is to become what is needed, but to go from what must be. It's a kind of front. This is a battle against situations that cause natural disasters. Exactly at a certain time you have to react. If something prevents the organizational, financial, whatever reasons, from reacting exactly at the right time in an adequate manner, all the costs that have been incurred are inappropriate. This is an activity in which everything needs to be done in order to have that result worth spending money on. And I hope with this new approach that you are talking about, perhaps by providing the funds otherwise from the stakeholders and so on, to create a militaryised order in which you do not have the right to violate those rules that allow this front to achieve victory or better results. I hope that in this direction, the provision of sufficient funds, the provision of people who do this work, their preparation, their qualification, their systemity in action, and there will be a result worth paying for. That's how I think it should be decided.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-11.u237	Are you going to use a hole? No. Thank you, Mrs. Taneva, for participating in today's parliamentary control. The time fixed for him, together with the extended minutes used for declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups, is over. The next regular plenary session is on 16 September 2015, Wednesday, with the starting time I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
