ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. One communication: by letter of 9 September 2015, on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Shishkov, Dimitar Delchev and Dimitar Tanev inform me that they are withdrawing the bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code with VH. No 554-01-149. According to the adopted weekly programme, today we should start three bills in point two: For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: This is the first vote of the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Bill with importers Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs from 28 January 2015 and two Draft Laws for amendment and supplement of the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. The first with importer the Council of Ministers of 30 January 2015 and the second is the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. Reports have been submitted by the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food, the report is common under the three bills, and by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. There are no reports from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Budget and Finance. I ask Mr. Rumen Hristov to brief us on the report of the leading Commission for First Voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u2	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, please first on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote for admission to the Hall representatives from the Ministry of Economy Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Directorate of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy, Mrs. Svetlana Malcheva, Senior Expert at the Directorate of Foreign Affairs Policy and Mr. Georgi Ralchev, Head of the Directorate of Market Measures and Producer Organizations from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u3	Please vote, colleagues. They voted 129 MPs: 120, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u4	This Regulation for the first vote on the tobacco and tobacco bill, No 554-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 28 January 2015 and two draft amendments and supplements to the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015 and No 554-01-127, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 15 July 2015, discussing the Draft Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 554-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 28 January 2015 and two draft amendments to the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015 and No 554-01-127, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. The participants in the work of the Commission will give them in writing. Under the bill submitted by the MP Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. The Law governs public relations relating to the production, qualification, buying-in, industrial processing and tobacco trade and the production and trade of tobacco products. It is proposed to establish the National Tobacco Chamber with the relevant management bodies, powers, persons who may be members of it and order in which to recognise its status. Conditions for recognition of representative organisations of tobacco producers, tobacco processors and tobacco manufacturers are also laid down. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food should establish and maintain registers of tobacco producers; of persons buying raw tobacco; of persons making industrial tobacco processing; and of persons trading in industrialised tobacco. In addition, the ministry will perform the functions of a competent authority to provide information on ingredients and emissions in cigarettes, approve laboratories for their verification by keeping the relevant register and issuing authorisations, approvals and certificates. They will also have to set up tobacco committees for the Regional............................................................................................................................. related to the production,.......................................................................................................................... The data to be included in the registers are scheduled. Only certified seed will be used for tobacco production, according to the proposal in the Bill. The time limits for payment of the purchased tobacco will be fixed by the Contracting Parties, but no later than 30 days after the signing of the admission-transition protocol. Buyers will not be able to refuse to buy the agreed quantities of tobacco. The initial classification of raw tobacco will be carried out jointly by the manufacturer and the buyer in order set out in the contract concluded. In the event of a dispute, the parties will be able to request the designation to be carried out by a qualification expert and, in the event of disagreement with the expert's assessment and re-evaluation by a three-member committee of experts. The right to carry out industrial tobacco processing will have registered persons authorised for industrial processing. Manufacture of tobacco products will be able to carry out persons authorised by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Economy will keep a register both for them and for persons carrying out activities with equipment and equipment for the production of tobacco products. The sale, storage and supply of tobacco products will be carried out by persons authorised under the terms and conditions of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. The Commission received written reasoned opinions from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Economy, which do not support the Bill. The Ministry of Finance expresses principle support for the concept of strengthening the control of the raw materials for the production of tobacco products and of the equipment and equipment for their production, but nevertheless points out that it does not support the particular bill. The opinions of the Bulgarian Industrial Association and other NGOs in general are also negative. In the subsequent discussion, the view that some of the proposals make sense and that more stringent control measures need to be put in place was supported, but a number of criticisms were also voiced regarding the proposed texts. It was noted that there were no financial estimates and an economic analysis of the effect of its implementation and that too many regulations were introduced that violated the principles of the free market economy. The provisions concerning the establishment of the National Tobacco Chamber and the mechanism for the recognition of its status as well as the conditions for recognition of tobacco producer organisations, tobacco processors and tobacco manufacturers were subjected to serious criticism. BSP left Bulgaria said that, regardless of the shortcomings, they will support the proposed project because they believe that between the first and second votes texts can be refined. Under the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers It proposes the production of tobacco seeds to be carried out by persons registered under the Law on sowing and planting material. The register will be kept in the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control, and it will also carry out control over the quality, purity and origin of the seeds produced. The second proposal relates to the lifting of the prohibition on the production and sale of cigarette preparations with filter and the provision imposing a penalty for breach of that prohibition. In addition, a competent authority shall be designated to identify infringements relating to the sale and marketing of tobacco products through the use of information society services and the appropriate administrative penalty shall be introduced. All MPs agreed that the bill should be supported. Under the bill submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs The responsibilities regarding the conduct of state policy are distinguished. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will set up two new registers. The first is the Register of Tobacco Producers and their contracts for the purchase of raw tobacco. The second is for persons authorised to buy raw tobacco. It is proposed that, within the territorial scope of which tobacco production and trade is carried out, tobacco committees should be set up. The committees will include tobacco qualification experts who will carry out an independent assessment of the quality of the raw material in the event of disputes between a producer and a trader. In the event of disagreement with the expert's conclusion, the committee concerned will re-qualify, which will be final. The requirement that the qualification costs be borne by the buyer is removed. Accordingly, the purchase of raw tobacco will only be made by authorised persons having appropriate storage facilities and facilities and having concluded a contract with a registered tobacco producer. The obligations of the purchasers are scheduled to provide information on the estimated quantities to be bought in the following year, on the purchased and available quantities of raw, dried, manipulated and fermented tobacco from previous harvest and on the quantities of tobacco that have been made. The 30-day period within which the purchased tobacco should be paid is removed. With regard to tobacco production, it is required to be carried out according to technological instructions. Only certified seed complying with the requirements of the Law on sowing and planting material and produced by persons authorised to do so will be used. The marketing of seeds will also be carried out under the Law on sowing and planting material. The responsibility for control will be for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. A legal opportunity shall be given to establish representative tobacco producer organisations for industrial processing and tobacco manufacturers. Criteria should be signed for organisations to be recognised as representative, their duties, powers and the order of recognition. With regard to the production of tobacco products, it is intended to be carried out by authorised warehouse holders under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses authorised for production. The conditions for placing and reporting the Banderols on consumer packages will also be in accordance with the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses and its implementing acts. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill. The Ministry of Finance has expressed readiness to submit notes on the precision of the specific texts relating to tobacco manufacturers. The representatives of tobacco producers also supported the proposed changes. In general, the MPs supported the Bill and said that between the first and second votes they would submit concrete proposals to refine some of the texts. Following the discussions, the Committee on Agriculture and Food shall: 1. With 5 votes, the National Assembly proposed that the Draft for Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 554-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 28 January 2015. 2. With 18 votes for the Council of Ministers to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 502-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. 3. With 16 votes, the National Assembly proposed to adopt the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 554-01-127, submitted by the National Representative Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Following is the report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u6	"COMMODITY" on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act No 502-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015, and a Draft Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products No 554-01-16, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 28 January 2015. At a meeting held on 22 July 2015, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act submitted by the Council of Ministers and the Draft Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products submitted by Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. In the meeting took part, on the first bill: - from the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Daniela Vezeva Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Svetoslava Malcheva Chief Expert at the Directorate, External Policy. - representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Mr. Slavi Kralev For his part, Draft No 554-01-16 was presented by the MPs Mr. Stanislav Anastasov and Mr. Petar Chobanov. The draft amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers, aims to respond to the formal notification of action by the European Commission sent on 26 November 2014 in accordance with art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union relating to a found contradiction with provisions of the current Tobacco and Tobacco Act with art. 34 and 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The draft proposed by the Council of Ministers aims to correct this by providing for the annulment of art. 30, para. 4 forbidding the manufacture and sale of cigarette preparations with filter. According to the European Commission, this measure is contrary to the meaning of art. 34 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union prohibiting quantitative restrictions on imports and all measures having equivalent effect. It should be borne in mind that the wording of art. 30, para. 4 may be classified as a technical regulation in relation to which it has been notified pursuant to Directive 98/34/EC. For their part, importers of the Tobacco and Tobacco Bill, No 554-01-16, propose a whole new law which will now repeal the current legislation adopted in 1993 and has undergone nearly 30 amendments. The proposed Draft aims at limiting illicit trade in tobacco and tobacco products through effective measures to control and regulate their supply chain. The draft is aimed at reflecting in the Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive 2001/37/EC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products. It should be borne in mind that the application of the abovementioned Directive expires on 20 May 2016 when it is replaced by Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014. In this regard, the Bill also provides provisions introducing part of the requirements of the new Directive, in so far as they do not conflict with the current Directive 2001/37/EC. The bill provides for the establishment of a register of tobacco producers, a register of persons buying raw tobacco, as well as a register of persons trading on the territory of the country in industrialised tobacco. In addition to keeping these registers and controlling the quantities of raw and industrialised tobacco, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall be added to the functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: approval of laboratories controlling the measurement of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide in cigarette emissions and notification to the European Commission of the ingredients of tobacco products. Last but not least, the bill aims to specify the definitions in the Additional provision and to unify the concepts relating to tobacco products used in the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act and in the Tax and Tax Warehouse Act. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 15 votes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. It proposes that with 5 votes in favour and 10 votes abstentions of the National Assembly should not adopt the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 554-01-16, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 28 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Motives of the importer. First, the Tobacco and Tobacco Act, No 554-01-15, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova, to present your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Today we present to your attention a bill for a whole new Tobacco and Tobacco Act. Now the Act in force was adopted in 1993 and has undergone more than 30 amendments. It also does not meet the expectations of employees in the sector. Proof that it is imperative to change the current legislation urgently and adequately is the annual protests of tobacco producers. Regardless of who is ruling and who is opposition in recent years, there have been protests. This is a sign of a systemic problem, and they can be solved through legal changes. Follow back in the years the requests of tobacco producers and you will see that it is high time to hear the problems of these people and the National Assembly through the opportunities of legislation to change so that it finally solves their problem in full and not a piece of... in full, with a new concept for saving the industry, which would lead the country to stabilisation. Dear colleagues, tobacco production is not only a tobacco producer's problem. This is a national problem because tobacco is the raw material that then becomes a source of 1.8 billion. lv. revenues each year in the state budget, which is approximately 2.2 per cent of gross domestic product, or 6% of all revenues; because it concerns about 50 thousand producers and provides livelihoods to about 200 thousand people; because solving demographic problems, mostly of the people living in the Rhodopes, where the alternatives for livelihood are not many, and growing the highest quality Oriental tobacco, is also our responsibility. What is the alternative to most tobacco producers, especially those who grow Oriental tobacco? They can continue to grow tobacco traditionally, as they have for years, turning their backs all year round, if they receive a decent pay for the court's manual work, or give up their natives and move to live in large cities, or worse in other countries. The idea of the new bill is to regulate relations in the industry between tobacco producers, tobacco processors, tobacco manufacturers and all of them and state institutions. The state must introduce a mechanism for traceability of tobacco as a commodity, which is then a raw material for high-risk excise goods for smuggling. What's the problem? Years ago, the so-called market liberalization was introduced when raw tobacco was purchased and the liquidation of the state institution, which monitored and regulated the industry, namely the Tutun Fund. It led to chaos. The importers of these changes years ago argued that market liberalisation would also lead to competition and increased buying-in prices, but what really happened? Instead of increasing the buying-in prices, they fell down, found known and unknown rebusters of raw tobacco, for which non-compliance with the contractual relationship was a normal practice. Untimely buy-in has become a prerequisite for racketeering prices. The lack of adequate control over the quality of the crop material has led to a significant decrease in quality. At the moment, the production and trade of raw tobacco is equivalent to an ordinary commodity that everyone can buy and do with it whatever they want, but raw tobacco cannot be used for the production of canned or animal feed. It serves only as a priceless raw material, from which the state earns 1.8 billion annually. lv. from excise duties and VAT and loses every year from 450 to 600 million. lv. from smuggling. About half a billion leva per year do not enter the state budget because there is no information, traceability and enough control mechanisms. The lack of risk management mechanisms and the lack of information on what is happening in production potential, as well as the absence of regulated minimum obligations by producers and traders in the sector have placed tobacco production in an extremely uncompetitive environment for development. The trend for deterioration of the quality of tobacco produced in Bulgaria and the inability to meet the challenges of the local and global market is also deepened. Taking into account the close interconnection and interaction between tobacco production and the economic, social, demographic and institutional environment in the country, the main strategic objective is to create prerequisites, firstly, for the sustainable development of this sector, and secondly, to support the existence of local communities built by small farmers in economically vulnerable areas of the country. What do we offer in this Bill as a common concept for solving the problems in the industry? The proposed texts aim at ensuring full traceability of all amounts of raw and industrialised tobacco produced or entering the country, such as prevention of the growing international illicit trade in tobacco and tobacco products. The bill is harmonised with European Union law, as well as with the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. The bill provides for the introduction of the following measures: the establishment of a register of tobacco producers, the establishment of a register of persons buying raw tobacco, the establishment of a register of persons trading in the country's territory with industrialised tobacco. In addition to keeping the above-mentioned registers, the implementation of controls regarding the quantity of raw and industrialised tobacco. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food approves laboratories monitoring the content of tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and cigarette emissions, informs the European Commission of the ingredients of tobacco products, authorises industrial tobacco processing. The specialized territorial administrative units of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall be established by tobacco committees as a permanent body on matters relating to the production, classification and purchase of tobacco. The same Commission shall carry out preventive, ongoing and subsequent controls on compliance with this Law. The proposed bill enables the parties to the production contracts and/or purchase of raw tobacco to request and to obtain an independent assessment of the quality of tobacco and to resolve a dispute in a timely manner when classifying the production at the time of purchase. In order to carry out effective control of compliance with the requirements of the Law, the authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are empowered to draw up acts of administrative violations under the Law for which the Minister issues criminal decrees. There is also an opportunity for joint inspections by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency. In the field of tobacco production, the current regime is maintained, registration is required and we inform the Ministry of Economy of any equipment intended for the production of tobacco products. The bill provides for terms and conditions under which a legal person may acquire the status of a National Tobacco Chamber. The aim of the regulations governing the House is to support the establishment of an organisation that unites the main categories of participants in the "Tutune" and "Tutune" sectors. Such an organisation would facilitate the creation of conditions for dialogue between these participants and would enhance the introduction of good practices and transparency of activities carried out by persons. The status of the National Tobacco Chamber shall be recognised to a legal person registered under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act, in which they are members of at least one of the representative organisations of tobacco manufacturers, tobacco processors and tobacco processors. It is envisaged that an organisation of tobacco manufacturers will be recognised as representative if it combines more than 50 per cent of the total volume of manufactured tobacco in the register of manufacturers, the employers' organisations will be recognised as representative if the annual volume of manufactured tobacco manufactured by their members for the last calendar year is more than 50 per cent of the total volume of processed tobacco production in the sector of Tutjun and the producer organisations will be recognised as representative if the annual volume of tobacco products produced by their members for the last calendar year is more than 50 per cent of the total volume of manufactured tobacco products. The transitional and final provisions of the Law provide for appropriate time limits for the adoption of the necessary regulations on the application of the Law, providing for the maintenance of the operation of the existing ones in so far as they do not conflict with the new Law. There are also provisions governing the rights of persons who have received different authorisations under current laws. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I call on you to support the bill at first reading by expressing our willingness to listen to the proposals you would make and to take them into account in the form of a correction between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. On the grounds of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015, please come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill, which was quoted, was adopted by the Council of Ministers at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy with Minister Bozidar Lukarski. I'd like to call on you to support him. The bill amends the current law, which synchronise the Law with European law in view of direct texts that restrict free trade. My request and recommendation is that the Law be supported. Otherwise, with regard to these texts, there is a risk that there is a criminal procedure and we will, on recommendation, adopt these amendments anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Motives of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 554-01-127, submitted by Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015. You're welcome to present your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u12	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I present to you the reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products submitted by Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. Within the framework of the common agricultural policy in force so far, the regulation of the Tutune sector was carried out by Regulation EC 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products. On this principle, all regulations and changes to the national governance legislation of this sector have been laid down so far. Until that alignment to the terms of a common organisation of the cultural markets, tobacco shall be started as of April 2014, when the Council of the European Union for Agriculture and Fisheries decided on reform of the sector "Tuitun" which is in line with the principles of reform of the common agricultural policy of 2003. It should be noted that this reform was carried out before Bulgaria's accession to the European Union and our country has not participated in the debates on the issues, but at the moment it is obliged to fully implement the arrangements reached in the sector, which are actually expressed in the creation of conditions for the market functioning of this sector. It should be noted that this approach to the sector is also in place during the new programming period of Europe by 2020, and there are no direct commitments for the country regarding the implementation of management and control systems in the production of raw tobacco. In parallel, the only trend observed in Bulgaria for the sector is to decrease the production of this type of agricultural production, low buying-in price per kilogram, largely determined by the permanent low quality of the tobacco produced in Bulgaria. Taking into account the interconnection and interaction between tobacco production and the economic, social and institutional environment in the country, Bulgaria's main strategic objective in this area by 2020 should be formulated in a way that creates prerequisites: firstly, for sustainable market development of this sector, secondly, to support the existence of local communities built by small farmers in economically vulnerable areas of the country, and to provide them with financial support as far as possible for diversification and reoriented existing tobacco industries. Achievement of such an objective, given the huge number of existing tobacco producers in the country, as well as the amount of funds paid to this sector, require themselves the need to monitor the processes in this sector without direct interference of the State in them. The establishment of traceability and transparency systems will contribute to the normal functioning of this sector. They will determine in themselves the optimization of governance decisions for the sector. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Act makes significant progress in establishing a similar approach to work in the sector and to a large extent meets the public expectations of greater predictability without writing down specific intervention functions of state authorities. Firstly, two new registers are set up with regard to producers and traders in the sector, with minimum criteria for inclusion in them. Their introduction of practice fills a large gap with regard to the information on the current state of the sector. The focus is really on the weaknesses in production, the persons involved in the production and marketing of raw material intended for the production of excise goods and minimum requirements for such activity on the territory of the country are highlighted. In parallel, tobacco committees are being set up at regional level, which will fill the missing unit at the moment for monitoring and management of the sector at regional level. The same is intended to have competence regarding the independent classification of tobacco in the event of a dispute in buying-in between a producer and a trader, which is only an independent reference in terms of the actual quality of the raw material. The proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement bill introduces for the first time the foundations for establishing representative sector organisations "Tuteun" according to the model of most European countries, which, on a vertical basis, combine all levels of production to the final product in the sector and place the relations in the sector at a level corresponding to the trends in it. The introduction of representativeness criteria for such organisations also creates an immediate opportunity for the creation of an extra-branch body to unite the interests of the parties and appear as a platform for the management of relations in the sector, including with regard to the purchased tobacco campaigns, buying-in periods, price levels without contradicting any state commitments for the market functioning of the sector. Last but not least, the proposed Amending and Supplement Bill distinguishes clearly the functions and powers of the competent departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. The mechanisms for monitoring the production and marketing of tobacco seeds are adapted to the country's only officially accredited body for this, namely the Executive Agency for Acrobation and Semi-control. It is introduced that tobacco production is required to be carried out according to technological instructions for production.. picking, drying and production manipulation, which will largely allow the tobacco produced in Bulgaria to meet the demand for quality raw material, which is also the basis for the market functioning of the sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Honourable Members, you have the floor to speak. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u14	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, three bills are presented before us, which concern the sector - Tutun..................................................................................... I would like to start by saying that the current Tobacco and Tobacco Act, as has already been highlighted, has since 1993 undergone 30 changes. However, what the sector has experienced with the change in the law in the Forty-first National Assembly, that is, the introduction of full liberalisation in the sector of producer relationships, I must say that it is an unprecedented practice in the European Union in this particular sector. As a result of the total misunderstanding about the specifics of production, tobacco trade, the misunderstanding that control mechanisms are needed, our country is about to enter history with a number of paradoxes. They are related, first of all, to the fact that there is no information in the country that is reliable, objective, about who manufactures tobacco, who buys tobacco, how much and how much quality is available on the market and from now on the picture of the market situation in the sector is completely opaque and creates problems for both the government in the Ministry of Agriculture, which are therefore forced to take urgent measures, as well as for tobacco producers because of uncertainty in terms of the contracts to be concluded and also the prices at which these quantities must be purchased. In addition, the sector is in complete chaos as to how funds are managed. I have to tell you that, compared to 2007 and 2009, the funds for the sector, the Tutuno manufacturing sector, increased about 25.. 28%, but against the backdrop of twice the amount of tobacco produced, especially in the last two years. With regard to the quota, we produce and report twice the quantity of dubious quality, given the fact of the problems created when buying tobacco. National transitional premiums are given, but I did not hear in the importers the problem that emerged, especially after 2009 and the closure of the Tutune sector, that the historical reference year is 2009, which means that funds from the national budget are being allocated first to tobacco producers who have not worked in the sector, but because of the fact that they hold a quota, they receive precisely these national transitional aids each year. As a result, the serious problem is created that people who have worked and worked since 2009 are not in competitive advantages against those who were before 2009 and the funds are naturally provided and spent inefficiently. Therefore, those who work in the sector are victims, so those who work in the sector want more state in terms of control not only of the funds spent, but also in terms of tobacco production. Not only tobacco producers, but tobacco processors are also in the same situation because uncertainty about the quantities of tobacco produced reflects on them. The Bulgarian Association for Tobacco Industry points out that in 2013 the quantities of illegal tobacco captured significantly increased and estimated them at around 360 tonnes, while excise tobacco for smoking was half as low as 164 tonnes. That is why they are also calling for a change in the Tobacco and Tobacco Act and for it to be directed in this direction - more state, more control about how this product is produced and how it is then realized on the market. The bill of the Council of Ministers, which is proposed, provides for the repeal of the prohibition on the production and sale of cigarette preparations with filter and the introduction of administrative penalties, as well as the designation of the competent authority for these administrative penalties. It is a fact that this is a failure in the Law regarding administrative penalties, but at the same time this provision, which acts in art. 30, para. 4 of the Tobacco and Tobacco Act also goes against the European Commission's existing directives and our state is threatened with sanctions on this line. Therefore, the proposal from banning the passage into authorisation is one of the main changes in the Law of the Council of Ministers and BSP left Bulgaria will support this change and this Bill. The other two bills concern a change in the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. I would first like to draw attention to the proposal for a change in the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, which was proposed by a group of MPs, headed by Rumen Hristov, which the Bill, note, sets its ambitious task to solve the problems of tobacco production and control. At least that's in the motive. The reasons stress that market relations will be optimized without the intervention of state authorities. By not agreeing to the reasons expressed, we should note that importers in their proposals have decided to make a number of registers. This is quite legitimate and clear, because these registers will create conditions for order in the sector. But this is where state intervention is required. It is not possible to create registers and manage processes that create problems for the sector without the involvement of state structures. The participation of the state is not only in the establishment of committees, but these committees with experts will be at regional level in all areas. Here our objections to importers are that, first of all, there are not so many experts in Bulgaria. I have labored to see the Ministry of Agriculture and Food there is only one expert who has been dealing with tobacco for several years and, in my opinion, competent people who can carry out this arbitration, which is extremely important for tobacco producers, cannot be found. I think that not more than six, seven people at the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco are the ones who can make tobacco classifications and be independent in terms of the expertise they provide. So arbitrage should, but not in the way it was proposed, because it would be a non-working formula. A register of tobacco producers is also needed, but I would like to stress that such a register exists now, insofar as tobacco producers, receiving national funds, are in the Registers of the State Fund. These registers are credible from the point of view of the arable land which they have and also as intentions which they make at the beginning of each year. The importers of this bill focus the most on arbitration, but it does not reach the end if this arbitration finds an infringement in one or the other party, there is a possibility and option for contracts to be terminated. That's not written in the Bill. The other bill is about a whole new law. We accept that a new Tobacco and Tobacco Act is needed, at least because of the fact that there are so many changes and amendments and at least because of the fact that in the new programming period the European Commission has many new requirements for the Tutune and Processing sector and Bulgaria is one of the leading countries in tobacco production. A new Tobacco Act needs to be implemented as possible in this Parliament, with this proposal, precisely for these reasons, which enable all control processes from production to the realization of the final product to be covered. By supporting this Bill in principle, we would nevertheless like to note that the offering of the creation of new structures which, in some form, revive the Tutjun Fund is not the most appropriate option from the point of view of the administered process. The Tutune Fund is something that carried out its work through the Law and created rules. Tutune Fund is gone. On its basis and in its place, we cannot want to create a new state structure, although it is described as non-governmental, with extremely many functions that this structure, namely the National Tobacco Chamber, cannot fulfil for many reasons such as a relationship between producers, traders and processors. This structure also provides for the representation of only one organisation, because by recording that representative organisations are the ones who own or have more than 50% of tobacco producers, have more than 50% of turnover in the tobacco industry, this means that you have only one representative organisation throughout the chain. A number of control mechanisms are introduced in the Law itself. These controls will, for the most part, create order on the market and resolve some of the issues that tobacco producers are currently putting. Another point is that too detailed are described as a guide rather than as a bill, which can be developed in sub-normative documents respectively. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the two Bills provide for the establishment of representative producer organisations, but our main objection in both Laws on this part is that there is still no law for industry organizations in Bulgaria. When the National Assembly adopts a law on branch organizations and says who are representative, regardless of what sector they are, there will be no need in this Bill exactly or in any other, to describe the requirement which is representative organisation of producers, traders and so on. Therefore, our main objection is the existence of such representative organisations at all. Moreover, in Bulgaria attempts were made, for one reason or another, to have representative organizations and to solve the issues of production, processing and trade. Remember the Milk Board. It didn't exist at all, even though it was written in detail. The state has made every effort to implement it as a policy to address the problems between different countries and to resolve them in such a way that everyone can be satisfied. Nothing came out of those good intentions. In this direction, I would like to say that the Tobacco Advisory Council, which currently exists in the Ministry of Agriculture, can perform these functions, given that, in recent years, the Tobacco Advisory Council has shown that it can solve both production issues and the allocation of premiums provided annually by the State budget. The support of the three BSP bills left Bulgaria is a sign and an interest in the desire in the sector to change things for more order and control. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that as a result of the meetings and conversations we have with tobacco producers, with processors, what tobacco producers want is a contract, and not as now 30-40% of the production is negotiated; the deadline for buying up the tobacco, however, cannot be March, April or May, and a payment of at least one month after the purchase of tobacco, which also does not occur in recent years. Transparency in relationships, registration of contracts, which also enables tobacco producers, as well as processors, to have the opportunity to manage their business and financial resources that they need to start the next production stages of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear colleagues, first line? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Emin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! In view of the fact that the theme "Tutune" concerns a huge number of families, particularly concentrated in mountain and semi-mountain municipalities, I believe that the development of modern and competitive tobacco production should be one of the priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. However, this production has the lowest efficiency of the work used in the Bulgarian economy. We, representatives of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, realise that we are already in a real market economy, that the production of vegetables, fruit and dairy products are competitive industries, but our view is that in view of our agroclimatic conditions, the development of these industries in Blagoevgrad, Kardzhali and others is rather a diversification than an alternative to tobacco production. The increase in the minimum insurance threshold for farmers and tobacco producers over the past five years and the repeal of texts of the law in force then, led to a reduction or even eradication of tobacco production in these areas, increased the amount of deserted land and unemployment. At the same time, it increased the population's migration to large cities and mostly abroad. This will lead to serious negative consequences of public and economic nature, depopulation of the regions and their transformation into a backward and unattractive region of life, as well as deprivation of the state budget from serious sources of revenue. In order to prevent some of the above, we have proposed a new bill. We are convinced that tobacco production must continue to develop because there are the following necessary natural and socio-economic factors: Firstly, the commercial interest in tobacco produced in the region, which is indicative of its merits and the established place of the market. Secondly, the possible achievement of a high quality of manufactured tobacco, which is an important factor in terms of increasing competition in the sector and in accordance with European Union requirements. Thirdly, the accumulated extensive production experience in tobacco cultivation. For these reasons, we have highlighted the main expectations of the tobacco producers of raw tobacco in order to ensure the necessary guarantee and protection of the tobacco producer, namely: a time-limit for buying-in of the production, guaranteeing a time-limit for buying-in of the production with a clear date for the start and end of the buying-in campaign, will prevent to a large extent the tension between producers, traders and others; minimum buying-in prices, however absurd for each of us, but minimal buying-in prices set by consensus by industry organisations; a state expert or a committee on tobacco qualification with a view to fair classification of manufactured production by the experts of the companies buying-in; and last but not least, the supply of variety seed. I do not agree with the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the non-support of the National Assembly submitted to the Forty- Third National Assembly by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs Law covered by important four points described above, where it is argued as an argument that the proposed rules contradict art. 19th para. 2 of the Constitution of the country. The law creates and guarantees all citizens and legal entities equal legal conditions for business by preventing the abuse of monopolyism. An exception to constitutional principles can only be introduced for products which are placed under a special regime, arising from their intended purpose or their properties - weapons, poisonous substances, tranquilizers, medicines and others. Tobacco does not belong to products to be placed under a special production and distribution regime. In this sense, the proposed registration regimes are at odds with both constitutional principles and with the special legislation limiting administrative interference in business activities, the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food says. And from here I ask: if tobacco does not belong to products to be placed under a special regime, then why can't raw tobacco be sold on the free market? For example, we in the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms approve the draft amendment and supplement to the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act introduced by Mr. Rumen Hristov concerning the establishment of the Tobacco Commission. We believe that they will cover part of the functions of the regional units of the already closed Fund. We agree that the content of the register of tobacco producers, the terms and terms of entry of tobacco producers should be regulated by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, as well as with the Committees on Tobacco of the Districts. However, it should be borne in mind that the launch of a purchased campaign is due to take place in 2015. The references to other legal documents, as well as the organisation of the district offices of Agriculture, should be a fact so that the implementation of the proposed texts in the Law finds their real application in the interests of producers in the pursuit of harvest 2015. However, this Law does not provide for the inclusion of texts in the Act regulating the period for buying up production and representative organisations does not have written functions and rights, at least related to the definition of minimum buying prices and the way for the production of variety seed. We know that tobacco production and tobacco production worldwide is a declining industry, we know that in the changed recipe of famous brands cigarettes the proportion of Oriental tobacco is getting smaller, but we also know that every tobacco variety thrives best in the area from which it originated. That is why we appeal to all the representatives of the state, companies buying tobacco and representatives of the tobacco industry: do not ignore the topic The Tobacco and Tobacco Products Bill submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms sets out detailed provisions governing the above requirements and procedures, which is why I appeal to all my colleagues in order to avoid tensions in the sector and the many unknowns facing tobacco producers annually, to unite around a Law that will once and for all settle the problems in the sector. In support of the above, I would like to emphasise that, above all, it is very important that up-to-date information is received each year in support of decision-making. To this end, the bill we are proposing provides for as an exceptional measure the establishment of the register of tobacco producers, which should include all producers of raw tobacco. It is their duty to submit to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food services information on the size of the area on which tobacco will be grown, on the quantities produced and on the persons to whom tobacco is transmitted. With the introduction of the obligation to hand over tobacco to persons entered in the register, we also stop any speculation. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again the importance of the problems in the Tutune sector. They're not from today, they're not from yesterday. State institutions should pay the necessary attention and pursue proper and clear policies, rather than policies with spontaneous decisions that will suppress one or another social tension with the main interest of what will possibly happen if tensions occur at the end of November or at the beginning of December. Here we are talking not about anything else, but about the livelihood of hundreds of Bulgarian citizens who, due to the lack of clear regulations, are under pressure annually with the basic question: what will happen to their production.. whether it will be redeemed, at what price, who will evaluate it, will receive a fair treatment? It is high time to settle these issues by law to stop political speculation on the subject as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Emin. Dear colleagues, first line? I won't. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Danev, you have five minutes and four seconds left. [[Relation from the National Representative Dobrin Danev.]] The Parliamentary Group wants an extension of time in advance, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today, we are looking at two laws amending the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act and a Draft Law - a whole new one - of the same Law. It is true the opinion of colleagues, representatives of the industry, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that there is tension in the sector. This tension is multiplied by various factors, such as the change of the Law and full liberalisation in the sector, on the one hand, wrong principles of relationships between entities in the industry, on the other hand, the lack of regulation of rights, responsibilities and obligations, by a third party. This is a reason for the concern of the National Assembly, of the Ministry, of the individual institutions, which is expressed in the proposed three bills. At the same time, the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry pointed out that in 2013 the quantities of illegal tobacco captured were about twice as much as the excise duties. That's what the colleague mentioned before me in her statement. Therefore, they, as well as tobacco producers, want the state to intervene and strengthen the control and traceability of tobacco when buying and transporting. I would like to present to your attention what are the essential problems that need to be dealt with by the proposed bills. First problem, certified seeds of proven origin are not used in tobacco production, i.e. quality seeds that lead later to the production of lower quality tobacco. Studies show that the trend for reducing the quality of tobacco produced each year is lasting. This problem must find its solution in changing the Tobacco and Tobacco Act. Second problem, this is the unfair distribution of national aid to the sector.......................................................................................... lv. The principle of allocation for the reference year 2009 results in a serious distortion of objectivity when receiving the aid, as practice shows that there are business producers who after that date receive payments without producing tobacco or producing not as much as they did in the reference year and producers after 2009 do not receive funds due to their absence in that year 2009. I only give an example of how we solved the problem of the subsidy for pastures and measures in the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land to producers who benefit from subsidies and do not meet the requirements. I believe that a fair solution must be found so that the aid stimulates real tobacco producers. Third problem, the absence of arbitrators in disputes between producers and traders concerning the classification of manufactured tobacco. Here the tension is high due to the above mentioned fact that the low quality of the seeds has a lasting tendency to reduce the quality of tobacco, on the one hand, and an attempt by traders to subjectively push prices down through licensed valuers and to damage producers. Next problem, lack of order and legality in the sector. This is a quote from the opinion of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. I believe that there is a need to create unified registers of producers and traders. Next, I believe that the need to create a branch body on a vertical principle to combine all levels of production to final product is pressing. The resolution of these problems is laid down in the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act of the DPS group and in the amendment of the Law proposed by colleagues on the right. Yes, the proposed solutions have a different approach. Perhaps we should have a discussion and seek consensus, as the changes are in the direction of a dubious effect. For example, the creation of a single branch body on a vertical basis. I believe that this is a useful idea, the realization of which will enable order to be made, the regulation of the relations of the entities in the sector - Tutün....................................................................................... What, though, will be the status of this body of the Chamber of Industry? Will she be involved in the distribution of national aid? If yes, then where will the role of the State subsidising the sector as a control body of the fair distribution of national aid be? These are all questions that need to be answered and that satisfy all parties in the process of producing, trading and processing manufactured tobacco. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers in art. 30, para. 4 of the Tobacco and Tobacco Act there is a ban on the production and sale of cigarette preparations with a filter which is contrary to art. 34 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The principle of free movement of goods as a key element of the creation and development of the European Union's internal market is violated. I think this is a proposal for an amendment that synchronises European legislation and we will adopt it. To conclude, I would like to express the opinion that we will support the bills tabled in principle, and between first and second reading of the laws we will actively participate in the discussion, we will make our proposals for amendments, so that at second reading we can adopt existing texts that will benefit everyone in the industry. Bransha expects it from us! I believe that we are indebted to him by the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Donev. First line? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova. The extended time group is four minutes and 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, as our group has already declared, we will support the three bills with proposals between first and second readings to improve the texts. But I'd like to remind you of something. I call these bills tabled by representatives of the ruling majority and the Council of Ministers a conscious and recognised error. And if you hear that sentence from any of you, it will deserve congratulations. Moreover, the participants in this discussion from the Forty-first National Assembly and now we are almost the same. Then Minister Taneva was chairman of the Agricultural Commission, if you remember. And again, we argued about these issues. Colleagues, you made a big mistake then and you didn't hear the arguments, and time showed what that mistake was. Then you announced that you are about full liberalisation of the market, free negotiation and non-interference of the state in this sector. Time has shown the consequences. Firstly, for the state: the excise duty on tobacco and tobacco products has been sharply reduced in the budget. Out of a billion and 200, 300 fell to 500, 600 million in recent years. The second result, so to speak: increased smuggling. During the changes you made back then, 43,000 248 kg of confiscated chopped tobacco. In 2013 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In one year's time after these changes,.. 136 thousand 240 kg of chopped tobacco. You see what a sharp leap of contraband. You have suffered agriculture as a sector because the quality of manufactured tobacco has deteriorated for one reason. People suffered because their tobacco was purchased at lower prices and were subjected to racketeering by known and unknown buyers. Is Georgi Andonov from Gotse Delchev here? Because we argued very strongly then, but then we saw protests in Gotse Delchev, which even led to the death of tobacco producers during the protests. Do you remember, colleagues, these things? I think it is worthy to say today: that Assembly made mistakes and now we have the will to change them, although this mistake was too expensive for the state, the sector and tobacco producers. The proposals in all three bills, on different topics, will support them, as you understand. I just don't understand why the Commission rejected the project of Lutvi Mestan and the DPS colleagues. It is good and offers solutions to these problems that we all state exist. For example, the problem of people is how to buy tobacco at better prices. Well, there is a proposal to have a classification of experts provided by the Ministry of Agriculture who are independent, i.e. not a party to the dispute. For the sector, it is proposed to ensure the quality of the seeds in order to improve the quality of the raw material produced, from there the purchase price and to enter more money into the country and the budget. Registers are offered for the state, which will ensure transparency, publicity and clarity, therefore combating smuggling and again providing more revenue in the state budget. Let us also support this bill between first and second readings, from the three of us make one common with proposals that are really working and essential and that say clearly: Forty-first National Assembly made a mistake. The sector, the state and the people suffered this mistake. You have made this mistake up and now you are proposing its amendment again in the name of making more revenue in the budget, to provide a livelihood for tobacco producers, to reduce smuggling, to develop the sector in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? - What's the line? For the first line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u22	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Ninova! Everything you said is true. I would like to join your ambiguity with regard to the failure to support the bill that we propose, moreover, that the new Law on Amendment and Supplement to importers Rumen Hristov and MPs duplicates about 80% of the texts set out in the bill that we propose. I don't want to believe that failure is just because it was proposed by the DPS. If, colleagues, you think about tobacco producers, about Bulgaria's stability, you should not lightly reject the efforts of many people who have worked on this law because it is agreed with the industry, many meetings have been made, all the proposals that have been made have been taken into account. We're not saying it's perfect, but, in the end, it's the work of all of us. Let us not divide ourselves in this Parliament into ruling and opposition. Since you duplicate 80% of our proposals, this means that you agree with the idea of the bill that we are proposing for not rejecting it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u23	Where's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u24	Second line, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u25	Dear Minister, dear Chairman! I want to tell you that in 2010, when we made tobacco price liberalisation, the effect was felt in 2011. tobacco price, 2011 and 2012 the price reached BGN 7 - BGN 8 a kilo of tobacco. With the supplement given by the state, the price reached 9 leva. When there was rebellion and discontent, it was in your time, Mrs. Ninova. Then, fueled by the mayors of the DPS, because the ordinary tobacco producers, I went to these protests, said: "Why were you priced? Why was tobacco purchased until the end of November, and now it is January. February, it has not yet been taken up?.............................................................................................. The bad news is tobacco is politics. With these poor people who make extreme effort and spend almost 90% of the year on the field and work tobacco, it is played politically. So I'd like to say a few more words to you. Thanks to the government of GERB in 2009 with this notification, which we made to our MEP Maria Gabriel, there was an additional amount of state aid given to tobacco producers. Every year by 2020, there will again be an amount that will be allocated to tobacco producers. This is thanks to the government of GERB, the first government of GERB. We have not forgotten this industry for a moment, and I, as a representative from this constituency, can say that I have very often gone out to protect the interests of tobacco producers. Let's tell each other the truth in the face there may be some gaps, no one is perfect, but when going in a good direction, you really need to appreciate this thing. The other very important thing. You are saying about the Law which Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs from the DPS have offered. We have repeated your law. In the law that exists now, and in the Amendment and Supplement Bill that we propose, there is an opportunity to insert your proposals. Because these amendments to the Law we are proposing are thanks to five advisory councils that have been held since the New Year, together with industries, tobacco producers, and in practice, in this Amending and Supplement Act, we are based on these meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u27	Ms. Karayancheva, the price rose after liberalisation only in 2011 and in 2012 collapsed double and triple.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u28	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u29	This was because that was the market, and not because of legislative changes the price has risen, I mean. If you're right, then you've done something good, why are you denying it now in this Law? You completely reject what happened back then. This is not a omission, because the Law is not perfect, it is something more significant. Colleagues, the same people have signed the Law at the Forty First National Assembly now. Here, the transcripts, I took them out of the discussions then. The same people then say full liberalisation, and now you have your signature under a text that says liberalisation is a bad thing and we need to introduce registers and the state to monitor, to control this sector. Let's not have this argument unnecessary. We really made a mistake to fix it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u30	That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u31	I do not agree to talk here and on this issue of division. Indeed, tobacco is always used to make politics. Do I remind you of how during the first term you said: "We are giving so much subsidies to tobacco producers, let them understand among themselves how to distribute them, a deliberate provocation that brought between them a division.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u32	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u33	And you opposed the large leaves of Oriental tobacco, and people killed each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u34	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u35	That's how you used them for politics. I think today is the time when we all agree that this has to stop. The division in all its forms is harmful to the state and political, and economic, and social. We agree that the three laws offer good solutions. Let us support them and between first and second reading really work in such a way that the common interest is the state in the sector of Agriculture and tobacco producers, not the policy between us here, as parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u36	Mr. Petrov of the Patriotic Front has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u37	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! However, as a representative and a member of a new political force, I would like to ask, and if someone can answer me, why since 2001, when we have strategic co-operation between two parties in the centre and to the left in this Parliament, has not been adopted so far? Why haven't they passed a law until now, which, like the Law of the Council of Ministers and Mr. Hristov and a group of MPs, regulates relations in this sector? Furthermore, I would like to say to the Members of the National Assembly that from the beginning of 2000, you will not meet in any European document the word............................................................................................ Tobacco producers are farmers who are involved in the production of one crop, like all other crops. However, this culture is under special supervision of the European Commission, as it wants and has placed the task after 2020 not to have any subsidies for the production of a culture that has all the characteristics of light drugs. I would like to ask in this regard why, since there is no order, that there is no discipline, that there are no organizations in the production and processing of tobacco products, so far this has not been done, but that is waiting for the forty-third National Assembly to get acquainted now with three bills? I would like to say to my fellow Members that we will not support the DPS Bill because there are a lot of lobbying elements in it and it is an attempt to engage the state again and again in solving some of their political problems. I believe that the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, especially Rumen Hristov and the group of MPs, regulates in a very good way the production of tobacco, its processing, and also the way it is bought out and the registration of the producers concerned. Moreover, we in the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will insist that more clarity be made between first and second readings on what they are receiving and what people who really produce tobacco should receive, because, according to our report, half of tobacco producers receive nothing, or if they receive, they receive some crumbs from those who, so to speak, are entitled and receive those millions that are allocated to tobacco production. Here I want to share with you what I learned when I was visiting with a delegation from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in Ankara from a Bulgarian Turk who is an agronomic there. In such territories he has built impressive thousands of acres of orchards, particularly cherry. I ask myself, since we know that the DPS has been working a lot with its staff, what have they done so far in those 10 years since the European Commission said that after 2020 it has stopped aid to tobacco farmers? What have these agronomics done, where are these thousands of acres of crops replacing tobacco? Or do we keep talking about some state aid and keep talking about quotas?! I don't think it's very good to organize them all the time. Here, now I heard here: You will see what will happen in November and early December by organizing our people here again and they start asking the state for money! I particularly like it, and also our parliamentary group that the Law of the Council of Ministers and Mr. Rumen Hristov's Law specifies who can represent tobacco producers, who can represent processors and who can represent tobacco manufacturers. I think this is the way documents should be drawn up. I see these two bills as part of the deep reform that is being done at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I believe it will continue with the same depth and with the same intelligence. I suppose it will also be for the good of tobacco producers, because it is high time for them to come out of their position as fortified and free Bulgarian farmers to rely on their work, on their effective production, and not on state aids and programs to care for them as young children, and they are hardworking people that I really respect. If conditions are created for the adoption of a law that deals with the health of people involved in raising tobacco. Because I have seen dozens of Turks with swollen throats, I have talked to doctors about how great the incidence among these difficult women is, because they are dealing with precisely the production of this ancient culture, I and my parliamentary group will vote for such a law, which will regulate how long these women will be kept in the dark where they are put, what they are working with and how this affects their health further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u38	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Petrov, you said that you are seeing lobbying elements in the bill we are proposing. I will allow myself to leave a copy of the Bill on the stands, so that you can quote in the duplicate where exactly you view these lobbying elements, because if you praise the bill of amendment and supplement submitted by Rumen Hristov, you say it is very good, but it duplicates ours. It is precisely for representative organizations that there is a difference in only one digit. Everything else is a copy-past. I don't understand. Here, Mr. Petrov, I challenge you: I leave the Law here and show me where the lobbying elements are in this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ahmedova. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. Mr. Petrov, the douche bag? You don't want to. To speak, the public representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for the professional dispute that takes place in plenary with regard to the three bills. I am using the platform to thank the members of the Committee on Agriculture in front of the entire National Assembly for the often reached consensus in the Commission. This is normal because the industry is vital for the country, on the one hand, and touch, as they say, to every Bulgarian family. I'll start with the undisputed Act of the Ministry of Economy. It is no coincidence that all the MPs who attended this meeting voted for the adoption of the texts, at least because we did not fulfil a commitment to the European Union, the date 4 September passed. We are to a large extent to blame because we have delayed the unification of the three bills and their introduction into plenary. Given that the Bill is indisputable and that we are late by all deadlines, I have no doubt that all MPs will support the Law of the Council of Ministers. As for the bill tabled by me and a group of MPs, I would like to say that I have never experienced myself as a last resort. The bill is working with colleagues and very closely agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture. We took the step because there are problems in the industry identified by the five advisory councils that had to find a solution, on the one hand, and on the other, we submitted it because of the extremely intense legislative programme of the Ministry of Agriculture, which suggested that they would not succeed with the Bill. That is why we have decided, working with them on this bill, to submit texts that will ease the activity of the industry and the processors and traders to move forward. I assure you that I have not plagiarized, there has not been a copy-past, as you say, but it is normal after the five advisory councils and the long dialogue that leads the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in this direction, that things are similar. Yeah, we're talking about the same matter, the same manufacturers, the same interests, so it's normal for things to be similar. Why did I not support the Bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the Commission? Not because it was imported by you, but because I believe that conceptual adoption of a whole new law is the work of the ministry concerned, not only of the Ministry of Agriculture, but of the Council of Ministers. It is obvious that the Ministry of Agriculture was not ready at this stage and that is why we have proposed a bill for amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. I'm gonna say a few words. There are rational things in your Law. We commented on this in the Commission. I expect between first and second reading very actively all people involved in the industry to make their proposals in order to make a good law to help these hardworking people. However, I would like to say a few words with regard to the aid received by tobacco producers. We have said many times and we need to be aware that this money is available for conversion. They are obtained not to support tobacco production, but to prepare tobacco manufacturers to guide other subsectors, because by 2020, we will not be able to provide such assistance. Yes, this year is coming, but there are still five years in which to work under clearer conditions. As for representative organisations and the way in which they will be recognised, I thank Prof. Bachvarova, that again raised the issue of branch organizations. I will not hide that I am working on such a bill, and when it is ready, I will offer it to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. I hope that together we will adopt a law that regulates the construction of branch organizations, because I do not know how Minister Taneva endures, but in some areas, which I will not quote, we have more than 40 associations. You know, 40 people... [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] Sixty-three? Minister Taneva tells me, you know, that the Minister's dialogue with 63 people and if he gets five people a support team can't happen. Yes, Professor. Bachvarova, there is an increase in the funds for tobacco producers within these 27 per cent, but the question is how they are distributed. We're trying to find a formula to get the funds to the people who actually produce tobacco. The reference period has been adopted and certainly cannot be changed, but let us try to structure together the changes in the Law so that farmers dealing with tobacco production can have access to these funds and not benefit from people who abuse them and do not produce tobacco. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u42	Thank you, dear Lord Christov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! With extreme attention, I am following today's debate on this Law. In fact, if I should point out my opinion, the only colleagues who said exact things are Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, Mr. Rumen Hristov and colleague Petar Petrov. These are the people who said a few exact things, but I think they should be further developed. Because, first of all, when we start this debate, we need to answer a simple and simple question. Isn't tobacco production and sale a normal commodity like everyone else? Because the question should immediately come out of here: why not, for example, a potato law? For example. [[Radio.]] Because, here already, if we have to start to reflect, for example, on the pawned thesis by Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva that this Law is used exclusively for political manipulation and encapsulation of certain groups of population, first of all, in the Rhodope region. However, no one says, honourable Members, that in the Rhodope region the main production is the production of potatoes. But this production is in no way stimulated, not regulated. Siej, someone is doing everything possible to focus the efforts on precisely one production, which, as colleague Rumen Hristov said already, is being given aid for conversion. In other words, aid is being granted for the closure of this sector. So, what's the situation today? The situation to date is that much of this population has become an ambulant merchant who sells Chinese goods on the roads. They sell Chinese beans, sell Chinese honey, sell different types of Chinese jams. If you had done your hard work and your hard work, you could have made a light tegel on the road to Bansko and Yundola when you started, and all the way to Simitli you would have been dimmed by such merchants. However, these same traders, dear Minister, here I am already addressing you, are by chance and farmers; notice, when it comes time to look at such a law, strangely why an interesting action begins, that these people are selling unregulated dairy works from the same animals that are registered on an official basis. And it's funny why all these thinking DPS colleagues are doing nothing to get these people to close their cycles and sell their production in the form of butter, milk, cottage cheese, cheese, and so on. Siej, there is doing everything possible for them not to be able to come out of this enchanted circle of tobacco producers, to become, for example, livestock farmers. For some reason, if you go around the Rhodopes, you'll see that all the Mandarins in operation are closed. I wonder why. There was a program a long time ago, even under the Sapard programme, which had to provide such small dairys to close the cycle and enable these people to become modern livestock farmers and produce such production. It's okay. Why? Because we have to keep people encapsulated to do extremely hard work. And now notice this hard work is done by the adult population. Young people go out to European countries and there none of them are heading for the Tutun manufacturing sector. None. I've talked to dozens. However, another important question follows, which no one answers... what happens when these people come into retirement age? Here stand colleagues from DPS and start to convince you that in this sector people should not pay insurance of more than 300 BGN. That is, we turn them further into poor people because they can't get a normal pension. So, is this the defense of this sector, I ask? Is that what's taking care of these people? Total hypocrisy. Total hypocrisy! I will continue further, colleagues, to make it clear to you another scheme. How many of you know, for example, how much is 1 kg of tobacco for the tobacco maker? How many of you know that at the lowest prices of 1 kg of tobacco are produced at least 50 boxes of cigarettes. That is, against BGN 5,00, if we take exact numbers, the tobacco manufacturer of tobacco products, to be more precise, will receive a minimum of BGN 200. Depending on what the impurities are, it can reach 400 leva. But there is no regulation here. Why not? Because you have to stimulate cigarette smuggling. How many of you know which Bulgarian brands do not exist on the Bulgarian market at all, but strangely why do they exist on the Russian market? Strange why? Do I need to remind you who these stamps are? ==References====External links==* "Stuardesa"* "Stuardesa"* "Stewardesa"* "Stewardesa"* "Stewardesa"* "Ardsa"* "Stewardesa"* "Stewardesa"* "Stewardesa"* "Stewardesa"* "Stewardsa." Did you see them on the Bulgarian market? You won't see them. However, they are the main brand that trades seamlessly on the Russian market. How come these things happen?! And here we're always talking about very concerned. Concerned, my ass. Yes, we will support the Law of the Council of Ministers because it is related to preventing a danger that can bring us a serious payment for the open criminal procedure, if memory serves me right. We will support the bill of colleague Rumen Hristov from the point of view that it enables these people to really get out of this enchanted circle. We must do everything possible for our Bulgarian population to emerge from this enchanted circle, to understand that there are other opportunities that will bring him far more serious incomes that will enable him to develop and preserve traditions, for example, in the Rhodope region. The Rhodopes region was never known and never had the traditions of tobacco producers. He was famous for the production of potatoes, the production of pure ecological animal production.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u44	Which Rhodopes?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u45	It's the Bulgarian Rhodopes, sir! For the Bulgarians, if you ask me. This is what we should focus on, not on hypocrisy, which should be used for political purposes. It is a public secret that this sector of DPS is always used to pressure huge groups of hardworking Bulgarians, honest Bulgarians. I grew up in this area and I know very well what people we're talking about. And I was born there, except that I grew up. So as long as we've given the DPS the opportunity to play politically and just before the elections with this issue. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I want a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u46	It is prolonged for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u47	I'm done then. Colleagues, I call on you to support the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Rumen Hristov and to reject the political, malicious draft of the DPS. Thank you. [[Voices from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. The word for speech has the folk representative from GERB Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u49	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! We in the GERB Parliamentary Group will not support the new Draft Law of Mr. Mestan and a group of MPs, because there are introduced very many tools for managing, monitoring and controlling the sector, which do not correspond to the European trends for the organisation of the tobacco market. Secondly, the new law also increases the administrative burden and also increases the necessary funds for the budget, because it is proposed that 28 district-wide departments be opened to monitor tobacco directly. You know that tobacco is only processed in several areas in Bulgaria. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is entrusted with non-proprietary functions, comprehensive monitoring and control of the business related to tobacco production, trade and processing is envisaged. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not perform business functions, it creates conditions and supports them. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 provides for the creation of a number of new registers not only of production, buying-in and trade in raw and processed tobacco, which requires a whole new structure, as I said earlier. New activities with raw tobacco are being formed, which include declaring, tracking and controlling quantities of tobacco imported or introduced into the territory of Bulgaria, respectively taken out of Bulgaria to the member states of the European Union. It's also not the Ministry's activity. Tobacco purchasers and persons carrying out industrial tobacco processing shall be subject to requirements for the submission of a declaration of size, origin and the basis for the funds held for carrying out the activity. This declaration is based on a pattern. However, there are no evidence of facts and circumstances on which there are other authorities and other tax and financial legislation. Contracts for the purchase of raw tobacco with minimum prices shall be introduced. The indication of minimum buying-in prices and buying-in deadlines gives the impression that the state wants to regulate this sector, and you know that this is not acceptable in the free market. A Chamber of Tobacco is hereby established, which should be recognised by the Minister's order, however, it is not clear how this will happen. Public organisations are being established in the Tutune sector, which to some extent repeat the functions of this House. We do not believe that a new tobacco law is needed. We call on our fellow Members between first and second readings to make their proposals to the amendments to the Law that we propose. Regarding the Draft Law amending the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, which is proposed by the Ministry of Economy, we will support it. Maybe I'll repeat the colleagues who spoke before me, but still.......................................................................................... 30, para. 4 of the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act prohibits the production and sale of cigarette preparations with a filter contrary to the provision of art. 34. Here, synchronization is being done with European legislation and we support what is being proposed. Regarding Mr. Hristov's Bill and a group of MPs, we will also support it because it meets the public expectations of the sector. As I said earlier in my reply, there are changes that are consistent with advisory councils held with representatives of the industry. There are two registers of the manufacturer and the tobacco buyer in the sector with minimum inclusion criteria, which does not mean that in any way the liberalisation of the tobacco price will be interrupted, as some colleagues have tried to say. It focuses on the weaknesses in production. People who are engaged in buying up the raw material intended for the production of excise goods are enlightened. Texts relating to tobacco experts shall be updated. As I said just now, in these district directorates where tobacco is produced, there will also be such experts who will be as referees in disputes between buyers and producers. Tobacco committees shall be set up with these competences. A prerequisite for establishing representative organisations in the sector to partner with the central authorities and with the Ministry is created because the Ministry cannot be a regulator of relations, it cannot be a regulator of the market, it must create the necessary conditions for the sector to develop in order for the relations between purchasers and tobacco producers to be at the level and everyone to be satisfied. We will support the bill of Mr. Hristov and a group of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. A line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? If there are no willing, honourable Members, let us proceed to a vote. Mrs. Taneva has the floor. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Let me begin by expressing my satisfaction that both in the Committee on Agriculture and Food and here the debate on the three proposed bills is rather expert than politically and should be. The state should categorically adopt legislative decisions that show the direction of development of a sector. Therefore, before I move on to the three bills and express my motives regarding the position of the Ministry towards them, I would like to introduce you to several figures and trends both in Bulgaria and in Europe and in the world. The areas in Bulgaria are currently 14 thousand. the hectares of which 8500 hectares of which were previously 7500 hectares. That is, we have declining areas, as a permanent trend since 2010. Production it varies over the different years. The trend is also lastingly decreasing from 35 thousand. Tonnes up to 27 thousand. Tone now. The producers reported to us by the tobacco buyers, as we report them to the Commission -- $20,000. Let me say what are the conditions of the reference period 2007 - 2009 in which each year we allocate national transitional aid which decreases to 2020 every year and becomes inadmissible after 2020. The aid reference values are for 48 thousand tobacco producers and 54 thousand. Ton of tobacco. I would like to make it clear that this support is only possible under these rules, on this reference year and it serves to restructure tobacco holdings to another type of activity. This is the meaning of the regulation, this is the philosophy and the meaning of support. This is very important to understand, as at the moment those who have started producing tobacco after these dates are virtually not receiving funding. Last year 107 million were distributed. lv. from the budget according to these values. By decision of the Advisory Councils we are holding, we have asked the Commission to remove 2009 as a year of the reference period on which support is given. Unfortunately, that was denied us. And if I have to be objective, the same communication had fellow ministers, including the previous I'm sure. That's denied. Tobacco as a production is not available in any regulation which regulates, allows and lays down the rules of support, whether on direct payments, whether within the scope of the Rural Development Programme. That is, we do not have the opportunity to support another instrument. I explain this, given the very big problem that some of those who have started to produce again are virtually not receiving support. As in Bulgaria, the data I presented to you is the constant trend for reducing the area, and for reducing tobacco production, the exact same trend of reducing the area and production is both across the European Union and around the world. The global and European trend is to reduce consumption. When we, as a state and as a power, make legislative and executive decisions that govern the way and rules of the operation of a given industry, in this case, we cannot take these decisions without having a clear idea of the lasting trends and expectations in Europe and in the world, as this determines, of course, prices. What is the difference between trends in Bulgaria and Europe? There's only one difference between the essentials, of course. It is also the reason for lower prices in Bulgaria than in neighbouring European countries, which also produce tobacco. It is precisely the strong lowering of the quality of tobacco produced. In this sense, any remarks regarding the adoption of tools and measures motivating the use of certified seeds are appropriate and we will accept each of your job offers in this direction. The only possibility that we should accept and which gives it Regulation 1308 of 2013 as a common organisation of the markets, which provides for the order of recognition of organisations in the sector, which in practice exercise market power in neighbouring countries, where tobacco of the same varieties is higher than Bulgaria. The reasons are two: the higher quality and the existence of such organisations established under this regulation, which practically affect the protection of the interests of tobacco producers in the purchased campaigns. We just have to do this, there's nothing else we can do. If we want, these are the regulations that restrict us in one direction or another, but the most important thing is to know where the trend in Europe and the world is going as a whole, because it will have no impact. Why should there be a Tobacco Law, or why do we adopt the Tobacco Act? Unfortunately, tobacco is a slightly different product than others. Firstly, as I have already mentioned, it is not on the list of any application under the existing support regulations for the sector................................................................................................. Secondly, tobacco after its processing becomes an excise commodity and, in view of this, the system should function so that we in agriculture have given a good basis for effective control to colleagues who have the obligations and commitment of the state to monitor this excise duty. However, this commitment is not the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I would like to point out that in all three bills there are principles, rules that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports. If we go from the Bill submitted by the Ministry of Economy, I firmly think that it should be adopted because it synchronises the rules with European legislation. With regard to the other two bills, under the Bill submitted by MPs from the DPS, I abstain from support in general, in no case because it is proposed by the DPS. On the contrary, in most of the proposals in it, we support the introduction of rules and they find a place in both the presented draft by the MPs from GERB and the Reformation bloc and in our position of the Ministry. However, the reason why we refrain from accepting it is one thing, namely the replacement of more control functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which are subject to the obligation of other specialized authorities of state power. I'm talking about the National Revenue and Customs Agency. Secondly, the concept of control presented in this Bill requires the establishment of a new specialised control body, which at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will create a volume of functions and duties that are normally in other bodies, but will also require a financial commitment, which we are certainly not able to allocate at the moment. And thirdly, if we went into the detail of this concept in terms of control, we would also come to a contradiction with the Law on the reduction of administrative regulations, which is already more detailed, but all the other proposals, of course, we support them. Furthermore, in the course of the joint bill to be made, we can also debate on additional proposals. Yes, I was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture at the Forty-First National Assembly. Even then, when working in a different environment, the colleagues who are both BSP and the DPS here can tell how the Agriculture Commission worked and that it never mattered which political power comes from. In the same vein, we would continue to work towards adopting a final version of a joint bill. I support Mrs Saliha Emin's statement on this is one of the most important objectives of the presented changes in the drafts................................. the awareness of producers in tobacco production and the publicity of any information. This is extremely important. Honourable Members, we are a member of the European Union and we work in a certain regulatory environment. In no case should we leave here with legislative decisions that give a political message to any sector in agriculture that it can move from market orientation and market model of functioning to state and regulated. Given the administrative capacity, knowledge and knowledge of small producers in particular, I would like to tell you that, at the meetings I have every week, I spend at least one day in the country and meet with farmers, last week was in Tutrakan, there is still this desire: I am producing honey, I want the state to buy me all the honey at this price and I want to receive income like in the European Union. So our decisions must have very clear messages. Saliha Emin in her speech was a very accurate public awareness of what we are creating as registers should lead to an environment that will inform the sector operator to make an informed decision about its business how to work. And in the Bill presented by the Reformation Bloc and GERB, as well as in part of the messages and rules in the Bill presented by the DPS, there are such rules. That is, the sector must become transparent, public, have access to all this information and work market-oriented in this environment, and make decisions about the variety of tobacco, quality, buying-in, negotiating. That's it. I thought I made myself very clear. I hope I'm not bored. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u52	Thank you, Minister Taneva. Statements? I won't. We're going into voting mode, fellow Members. First vote on the Tobacco and Tobacco Bill. Importers: Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, submitted on 28 January 2015 Honourable Members, vote. They voted 165 MPs: 55, against 57, abstention 53. The bill hasn't been passed. We are going to vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 January 2015. Vote, colleagues. Vote 167 MPs: 166, against none, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. I put to the first vote of Draft Law No 554-01-127, tabled by the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 165 MPs: 163, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Private applause from GERB.]] According to the agenda for the work of the National Assembly, we move on to: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGE TO THE CONSULTANT AID AGREEMENT FOR THE SUBSTITUTION OF THE FUNCTURES AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF CAPACIES IN THE STATE COMMISSION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION AND ACCOMPANYING THE OPTIMISATION OF THE COSTS FOR ACCOMPLEMENTING WITH DIRECTIVE 91/271/EEC FOR THE RECOGNITION OF GRADE SUCH AVIATION WATERS BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF THE REGATIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF 4 APRIL 2014 REFERRED TO ON 8 May 2015 There are reports. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. I ask Mr. Nikolov to submit the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, on the basis of art. 46 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I would like to put to the vote the admission to the Chamber of Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u54	Dear colleagues, we are voting for access to the hall of Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov. Please vote. Vote 69 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted, please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u55	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, signed on 8 May 2015, No 502-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015. At a meeting held on 4 June 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of expenditure to achieve compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, signed on 8 May 2015, No 550-01-230, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25.05.2015. The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nankov Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of the cost of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed on 4 April 2014 and ratified by the National Assembly by Law, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 62 of 29 July 2014, in force from 29 July 2014. On 08 May 2015, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed an amendment to the above Agreement. It's an object. The amendment concerns an extension of its deadline until 31 October 2015, as well as an extension of the period of implementation of the expected result No 3 1 of the Annex to the Agreement The changes are also related to the names of the interested parties - the Ministry of Regional Development, now the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory - now the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Purpose. The aim of the amendment is to make more full use of the consulting services of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the implementation of the Action Plan to the Strategy for Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 - 2023. (Strategy), adopted by Decision No 269 of the Council of Ministers of 7 May 2014, and fulfilling the preconditions for the absorption of the funds from the European funds in the period 2014-2020 and, in particular, the implementation of the thematic precondition 6.1. Water sector: The existence of a water price policy that provides consumers with appropriate incentives to use water resources effectively, and an adequate contribution from different water users to the reimbursement of water service costs at a level defined by an approved river basin management plan for investment supported by the programmes, Action 8. Adoption of legislative changes in the regulatory framework in the water sector. The implementation of the activities and measures provided for in the Agreement and in its amendment will contribute to improving the quality and reliability of regulation in the water and sewerage sector, the construction and operation of the water infrastructure and the provision of water and sewerage services to reach European standards of quality and environmental protection. Improving the regulation process of water operators will also help to achieve better quality against invested investments and more efficient use of European funds in the field of water supply and sewerage during the new financial period 2014 - 2020. The signed Amendment to the Agreement shall not lead to any change in the agreed remuneration for advisory services. Necessity of ratification. As the main agreement signed on 4 April 2014 was ratified by the National Assembly by Law (GB, No. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,), its Discussions and discussions were held at which the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed Draft. After the discussion of the Draft was followed by a vote which ended with the following results: with 17 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for support in strengthening functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of compliance costs was Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water purification between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4.04.2014, signed on 8 May 2015, No 502-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25.05.2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We have heard the report of the leading Committee on Budget and Finance. There is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mrs. Kotseva, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u57	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, No 502-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers. At its meeting on 4 June 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory support services for strengthening the functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, No 502-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting, and Mrs. Ivanka Videnova, Director of the Department of Water Supply and Sewerage at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The agreement was signed on 4 April 2014 and was ratified by a law of the National Assembly (SG. 62 from 2014) It provides for the Ministry of Regional Development to take advantage of the World Bank's expertise in order to develop measures proposed in the Action Plan and in the Strategy for the Development and Management of Water and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2023. The measures provided for in the Agreement include technical assistance to the SEWRC in the part of the SEWRC Regulation and are aimed at supporting the preparation of amendments to the regulatory framework with a view to its harmonisation for the completion of the reform in the VK sector, proposals for organizational change and strengthening the capacity of the Commission, as well as the development of a guide for avoiding cross-border costs. 3 of the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive. The purpose of the signed Amendment to the Agreement is to extend its deadline until 31 October 2015, as well as to extend the period of implementation of the expected result No 3 1 of the Annex until 2 October 2015. The signed amendment to the Agreement does not lead to a change of the agreed remuneration for advisory services. The implementation of the planned activities will contribute to improving the quality and reliability of water supply services in order to achieve European standards of quality and environmental protection. Improving the regulation process of water operators will also help to achieve a better quality of investments invested and more efficient absorption of European funds in the industry during the new financial period 2014 During the discussion, the MPs supported the amendments proposed in the Amendment to the Agreement. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. Report of the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory Here you are, Mr. Stoev, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u59	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, signed on 8 May 2015, No 501-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015. At its meeting on 11 June 2015, the Commission for the Monitoring of the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory support services for strengthening the functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, signed on 8 May 2015, No 502-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Ivanka Videnova, Director of the Department of Water and Water Management, Mr. Valentin Petkov and Mr. Dimitar Kochkov; Mrs. Yolanta Koleva, Head of Department of Water and Water Regulatory, and Mr. Ivaylo Kaschiev. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ivanka Videnova, Director of the Department of Water Supply and Sewerage at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The World Bank Advisory Services Agreement was signed in 2014 and ratified on 24 July 2014. On 8 May 2015, an Agreement extending the period of the Agreement in force until 31 October 2015 was signed and the extension concerned only the period without changing its value. The Agreement covers two types of activities. Component 1 concerns support to the Commission for energy and water regulation for the upgrade of the regulatory framework and in component 2 are activities supporting the implementation of Directive 91/271 concerning urban waste water treatment and non-excess costs and determination of the outlines of agglomerations in Bulgaria. The extension of the agreement concerns only component 1. The Commission's support for energy and water regulation for the upgrade of the regulatory framework, the transmission of a final report on the implementation of the activities until 31 October 2015, and within this period the relevant trainings of stakeholders will be able to be carried out, mainly to the water companies, as well as to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and to the relevant experts of the state administration, on how the proposed by the World Bank should apply changes to the regulations relating to the quality of the water services and pricing, the instructions to them and other supporting documents. The presentation was followed by a discussion after the end of which took place. The results of the vote are:..... 13 votes,......................................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion, the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of the KEWRC proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for support for strengthening the functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and to achieve optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271 EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, signed on 8 May 2015, No 502-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Dear colleagues, speeches? I can't see. Voting mode. We are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of optimization of the costs of achieving compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014, importer of the Council of Ministers, of 25 May 2015. Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 94 MPs: 89, against 3, abstention 2. The bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u61	Procedure, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u62	Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u63	I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of the National Assembly for the adoption of this Ratification at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u64	A reverse opinion? I won't. Voting regime, fellow Members. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Nikolov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u65	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to support the strengthening of functions and capacity building in the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the achievement of cost optimisation to achieve compliance with Directive 91/271/EEC for urban waste water treatment between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 4 April 2014 This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u66	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. It's all been reported. Voting regime, fellow Members. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 2, no abstentions. The law was passed at second reading. After the break, we continue with the second vote of the Preschool and School Education Bill. Importers - Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 1 February 2015. Holiday, coworkers, till 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u67	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR PRE-SCHOOL AND SCHOOL In the previous sitting, Article 1 shall be replaced by the following: 25 of the Law. We are about to continue with the following texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u68	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 25a: Art. 25a (1) The extra-school centre shall be an institution in the system of folk education in which training activities, education and development of abilities are organised or to support the training and/or development of children and students. (2) The out-of-school centre shall not ensure the completion of a class and stage and the acquisition of a degree of education and/or professional qualification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u69	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 68 MPs: 6 against 46 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u70	Under art. 26 has a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Article 26 is amended as follows: Art. 26. (1) The Centre for Creativity and Development of Capabilities is an extra-school institution in the system of pre-school education and school education, which organizes activities supporting the development of the gifts of children and students in certain areas to which they are interested, in cooperation with teachers teaching them at school. 2) The Centre builds on knowledge, skills and competences in science, technology, arts, culture, sport and healthy lifestyles. Proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. (1) The Centre for Personal Development Support is an institution in the system of pre-school and school education, which organizes activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students, as well as activities for the development of their interests and abilities. (2) The Centre for Personal Development Support shall not ensure the completion of a class and stage and the acquisition of a degree of education and/or professional qualification, except for the Centre for Special Education Support, which may also carry out vocational training for the acquisition of a first degree of professional qualification and/or for the acquisition of a qualification by part of a profession.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u71	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 81 MPs: 9 against 57 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 26 in the version of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 70 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u72	A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its respective systematic place in art. 297. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26a: Art. 26a (1) The Center for the Support of Education and/or Development of Children and Students is an extra-school institution in the system of pre-school education and education and school education to support children with special educational needs and/or chronic diseases. (2) Specialists in the centers of support for children with special educational needs and/or chronic diseases must have special education for working with such children.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u73	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 85 MPs: 10, against 54, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u74	Under art. 27 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Snezana Dukova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. The specialized service units are institutions for the implementation and promotion of activities related to the implementation of educational policies, including supporting the process of inclusive education, as well as the information and technical provision of the pre-school and school education system.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 27 in the version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 81, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u76	Under art. 28 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under points 1 and 2. The Commission does not support the proposals referred to in points 3 and 4. "3." ) (a.k.a. 2 t. 1.................................................................................. 2 points 2, 3, 4 and 5 become 1, 2, 3 and 4; 4th para. 3 to acquire the following version: The self-management of schools also includes the right to choose profiles and professions agreed with the Ministry of Education and in accordance with state education policy. Self-determining subjects, modules and interest activities and developing curricula in the cases provided for in this law. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Article 28 paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: Art. 28. (1) Children's gardens, schools and extracurricular centres shall carry out their activities on the basis of the principle of self-government and in accordance with the regulations. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 and in the whole text of the law, the word "autonomy" is replaced by the word "self-government." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28. (2) t. 3 the word "education" shall be added after the word "education." Article 28 paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is amended as follows: The self-government of schools also includes the right to choose the profiles and professions agreed with the Ministry of Education under this law and in accordance with state education policy. Self-determining educational subjects in freely elective training, modules and interest activities and to develop curricula in the cases provided for in this law. Proposal of the National Representative Mariana Georgieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) Children's gardens, schools and personal development support centres shall carry out their activities on the basis of the principle of autonomy and in accordance with the regulations, such as: 1. define their policies for their development in accordance with the laws of the country; 2. establish their arrangements and activities in accordance with that law and its implementing regulations; 3. choose the organisation, methods and means of training to ensure quality education; 4. define their symbols and rituals in accordance with the principles of national identity and culture, as well as their uniformed clothing and other distinguishing marks; 5. participate in national and international programmes and projects supporting activities in the field of education. (2) The autonomy of schools shall also include the right to define profiles and professions, as well as to choose and draw up their own study plans, to allocate the curriculum according to the needs of the students, to define the study subjects and to develop the curricula in the cases provided for in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u77	Statements? Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u78	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! The proposal, which has been submitted by me and by BSP left Bulgaria, foresees a change of the concept of autonomy for schools with the concept of self-government. It's not a purely linguistic issue. Autonomy is a mode of operation in higher schools and higher education. It has a completely different content, includes a different way of managing, including forms of funding, including forms of definition of curricula, and it seems inappropriate to me that autonomy as a principle should be extended by higher education to secondary education. What seems to me is designed entirely by the law as a spirit, namely to enable schools to be flexible, to have the opportunity to take into account the peculiarities of both the training process and the general focus of the institution concerned, fully fit into the principle of self-management. So I suggest we don't get this mess mixed up in this article the way it is supposed that we don't bring autonomy into secondary school, which will create immense difficulties after years, and perhaps immediately after the adoption of the law, and I suggest that we replace the concept with the concept of self-government. I think the arguments in this direction are enough. I do not see what will change if the notion of autostomy is recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our two proposals are motivated by the pursuit of precision in the texts and affect changes in para. 2 and para. 3 of art. 28. We're proposing a t. 1 which states: "Children's gardens to define their development policies to fall. We do not oppose the content of art. 2 which enables kindergartens to carry out certain activities independently for the benefit of children, education and preparation. However, to use the expression that a kindergarten will pursue politics is somewhat far-fetched for our linguistic performance, as some fellow Members would say. Each dictionary would tell us that politics has three meanings and these three meanings cannot be applied to the content of para. 2. Our other proposal is in para. 3, when it comes to the right of schools to choose and create profiled and professional forms of education, this is done, albeit generally speaking, but still in a procedure of coordination with the Ministry of Education and Science. We have had such a debate in the Commission and we hold our position that this procedure of consistency must precede the procedure itself for opening such profiles and professions, as it is about something very important, which does not just affect the interest of the individual school to attract students, but also a number of issues related to the labour market, with the demographic characteristics of the region, with its economic development. This will give a procedure that will precede the opening procedure itself, enabling the school guide to obtain additional information, statistics and the possibility of successful development of these forms of training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u81	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u82	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! With this article, we delegate to the schools a huge scale of autonomy to the first autonomy of the curriculum, second, autonomy of the curriculum, third, autonomy of the educational subjects to choose each school. The problem here is that today different lecturers are heard, I have read, in their interviews, say: for me, for example, in mathematics in a certain class are important these three topics. The remaining five-six who must teach during the term, for him are not so important and therefore he can no longer teach them through this autonomy. The main problem that arises is that these children then on the exams they take should know all the topics, and they will not have taught them in the relevant school. At a time when the state is facing a demographic disaster and we must bet on the education of children, and the state through this autonomy cannot carry out a single state policy, the problem is further growing. In small settlements where there are generally no lecturers, there may be no capacity to draw up these independent curriculums, programs and to choose which subjects to teach, in what amount. In this way, we hinder equal access to students' education. Here I can say that this is a kind of discrimination and I will give a quote that says that when public funding is given to private schools, the children of the poorer and medium-sized sections of society are less educated. These children up to their three years of age hear 30 million words less than the children of the high echelon. What I'm telling you right now is a quote from Mr. President of the United States of America, Obama. We try to make such a neoliberal law, but we see that in the cradle of neoliberalism they refuse this law. This is perhaps the second article of the Law in which we will strengthen segregation in society, division in society and divide society into a very small elite from above and all the others who have to deal with themselves. We can compare it to 18th-century education when access to education had only people with opportunities. With this change and with the financing of private schools, that is exactly what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs in his unsupported part of the Commission, namely in this regard. Three and four. They voted 104 MPs: 22, against 28, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 19 against 63, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's edited text of the importer for art. 28 according to the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 86 against 13, abstention 1. Article 28 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u84	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u85	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 29, supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The text of the importer for art. 29 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u86	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 30: Art. 30. (1) The name of the kindergarten, the school, the support center for personal development and the specialized service unit shall be written in Bulgarian literary language. (2) The name of the kindergarten, the school, the support centre for personal development and the specialized service unit shall correspond to the truth, not to mislead and not to prejudice public order and morality.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 30 together with the corresponding text in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to create a new art. 30 is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u88	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Mariana Georgieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30, which becomes art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The name of the school shall include the name and designation of its type under art. 38, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 39, para. Art. 2, Art. 42, para. Art. 3 and Art. 44, para. 1. The name of the school must be socially acceptable. (2) The name of the private kindergartens and private schools shall also include the designation of the private kindergartens. (3) The name of the school may also include an indication of the basic profiles, professions or specialized training in which it conducts training. (4) The name of schools with a profile of "Foreign Languages" may also include the indication of the language, language and indication of the basic foreign language in which training is conducted. (5) The name of schools with a Mathematical and/or Natural Sciences profile may also include the designation of the Mathematical, Mathematical or Natural Mathematical, (6) The name of the school declared as a school of national importance by the order of art. 38, para. 9 may also include the designation of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the name of the person concerned, the
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u89	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 30, which in the Commission's report becomes art. 31. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. Article 31 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u90	Under art. 31 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 31 is amended as follows: Art. 31. The name of the extra-school centre and of the specialized service unit shall contain the name and indication of the subject of activity. A proposal from the MP Mariana Georgieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u91	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 14 against 60, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 31, which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 32 in her report. Vote 94 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 11. Article 32 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u92	Under art. 32 there is a proposal from the MP Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 sentence 2 shall be created with the following content: The name of kindergartens and schools conducting training in accordance with both the state educational standards and the requirements of another Member State may be given except in Bulgarian and in a foreign language. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para.1 and 2 the words "the Centre for Personal Development Support" shall be replaced by the words "the Out-of-school Centre." The same amendment is made throughout the text of the Law. A proposal from the MP Mariana Georgieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer, which shall be reflected as art. 30. The Commission shall propose art. 32 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u93	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 12, against 3, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Please vote on the proposal by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 60, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 32 by importer. Vote 94 MPs: 89, none, abstention 5. Article 32 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u94	Under art. 33 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. (1) The seat of the kindergarten, the school, the support center for personal development and the specialized service unit shall be the place where their management is located. (2) The official address of the kindergarten, the school, the support centre for personal development and the specialized service unit shall be the address at which the institution's management is located. The official address shall correspond to the address of one of the buildings in which the educational process takes place, respectively the activity. Under art. 34 has a proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) The institutions in the pre-school and school education system shall hold an ordinary own seal. Schools, with the exception of primary, private and spiritual schools, also possess a stamp with an image of the state crest. (2) The stamp with an image of the state crest shall be affixed to the following documents: 1. a certificate of basic education; 2. diploma for secondary education; 3. a certificate of professional qualification; 4. Certificate of completed second high school secondary education; 5. Certificate of validation of competences for a basic degree of education; 6. certificate of validation of professional qualifications; 7. Certificate of validation of competences in a school subject not included in the secondary education diploma. (3) A stamp with an image of the state crest shall also be affixed to the annexes and duplicates of the documents under para. 2. (4) Print with an image of the state crest on the documents under para. 2 issued by private schools and by spiritual schools shall be laid down in the relevant regional education managements under conditions and in order laid down by the state educational standard for information and documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u95	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 33 and 34 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Articles 33 and 34 on the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u96	"Department II..................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u97	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section II, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The importer's proposal for the name of Section II has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u98	Under art. 35 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: This is how 35 is changed: Art. 35. According to the form of ownership, the institutions in the system of public education are state, municipal and private. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u99	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I believe that, as the proposal has been made in art. 35 of me and the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria are clearly defined the forms of property that function in the system of education. In terms of both financing mechanisms and management, the relationship between state, municipal and private institutions is good to have uniqueness in concepts. I suppose you will pay attention further in examining the Bill, we often get the impression of mixing the concepts. The notion of public is used and it seems to me that this cannot be exhausted with the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law. That is why we propose to accept art. 35, which clearly distinguishes the forms of property. It is not a formal issue of both the forms of funding and the selection of teachers and the enrollment of students, of everything, as you know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few more arguments I would like to put forward in support of our proposal. The types of institutions must, in our view, be determined by a given sign. In the first place, each classification is performed by a certain sign. This is the logic and basis of our proposal. GERB representatives rejected our proposal in the Commission for the types of schools according to the form of property, but proposed a new article. 36, which lists the types of schools by that particular sign. In this sense, spiritual schools are added to them. However, there is no mention of the criterion by which these types of schools are defined, as well as the definitions of state, municipal, private and spiritual schools. I therefore draw your attention to the vote on our proposal that this is what we propose through Articles 35, 35a and 35b. We believe that these texts clearly define what act each of these types of institutions is discovered by... state, municipal, private, which we think is important. And one more thing: we clearly define the responsibility of the state with regard to state and municipal institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 17 against 54, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 35, which is supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 78 against 10, no abstentions. Article 35 of the Commission report has been adopted. [[Radio, noise in the hall.]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u104	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: Article 2 is created. 35a: Art. 35a. (1) State kindergartens and schools shall be opened by an act of the relevant ministries, and municipal kindergartens and schools by decision of the Municipal Council under this law and by order of the Minister of Education and Science for Schools. (2) The State shall ensure and ensure the financing and operation of state and municipal institutions in the system of public education under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u105	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this article that we are now considering and our proposal is related to the previous article, where the form of ownership in the education system is defined. In the proposal, as done by the Commission, there is no clear distinction between different forms of ownership, which will cause many difficulties from the point of view of financing. In this article, which we propose, we clearly sign the state's responsibilities to state and municipal education. Note that the principles on which they should be financed are also laid down and the way in which the perimeter of state and municipal property in education should be preserved. Otherwise, I believe that one of the great achievements at the moment of Bulgarian secondary education is its public character and public focus. We are leveling out the forms of property the state is making an equal commitment to both private and state and municipal forms of property in education, which seems to me to contradict both the tradition so far and the factual situation in the education system. I see no reason to reject this term.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the creation of art. 35a, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 11 against 61, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u108	Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs: Article 2 is created. 35b: Art. 35b. (1) Private are kindergartens and schools established by natural and/or legal persons such as commercial companies, non-profit legal entities or cooperatives or as companies under the legislation of a Member State. (2) Private kindergartens and schools shall carry out their activities after entering into the register of institutions in the system of pre-school education and training and school education under the terms and conditions of this law. (3) Natural and/or legal persons may establish private schools. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u109	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 35b, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 11 against 68 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u110	Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Marinova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 36: Art. 36. The schools are state, municipal, private or spiritual.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 36 with its respective content on the Commission report. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 80 against 1, abstention 9. The proposal to create a new art. 36 together with its content according to the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u112	Article 36 supposed by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36 the word "non-specialised' is replaced by "general education'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs: "Article 36 shall be amended as follows: Art. 36. According to the type of preparation the schools are general education, professional and specialized. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u113	Statements? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u114	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Damyanova! The proposal we made in the Commission was editorial. It is reflected in the transcript that both the Ministry and colleagues agreed with our argument that the term "non-specialized" is too bureaucratic and contains a certain degree of negation. The argument not to support the replacement of this term with a general education is that specialized schools also provide educational training. But in addition to general education, they also give specialized training, and that's why they're named that way. In the course of the debate, we promised ourselves that we would look for synonyms with this term, which is both philologically and purely aesthetically not even enjoying it if we put it in the Law. For better or worse, we couldn't get to another term to replace that, to tell me personally, a disliked definition of unspecialized. Therefore, I took the liberty of wasting our valuable time to argue once again that with the indication of the common educations, we are in no way in conflict with the regulatory and sub-normative documents, but we give a name to this type of schools, which even by tradition are adopted in Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u115	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the popular representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we also have a proposal that shows that schools are general, professional and specialized. After the previous provision specified the types of schools according to who created them, according to their property, here we have to determine the types of schools according to the content of the training for the main direction of preparation given. I also share the motives expressed by the people's representative Milen Mihov. Even his proposal is more successful than what the Commission proposes, because in the mass case it is about general education schools and specialized schools. In our categorization they are professional and specialized, although there is a certain terminological overlap, but it is still stressed that education can develop in several branches, especially after the initial degree, and it should not be the specialized preparation, as the majority understands it, to be reduced only to schools of arts and sport. We no longer shine particularly in the field of sport, and to reduce education mainly to the preparation of athletes or artists is a very close understanding in which there are not a number of other important directions that have much more in common with science and which have an even wider application in economic and social practice. I do not underestimate other schools, but running out of specializations is a very narrow understanding of the role of education. In addition, the name of the schools as specialized also includes characteristics relating to the special educational needs of some of the children, so this element must also be taken into account here. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if, in determining education policy, the majority has decided that it will replace the role of the Ministry, it has that right. I believe that in purely professional matters, those to whom participation was assigned on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Science's leadership had to prove that they were professionals not only of a claim, but as a real participation, but not more of being presented almost as the clackers of majority proposals. This is a big problem and it shows here in the content of such provisions, which seem more terminological, but they also reflect on how professionally the entire structure and content of the Law is being built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In our proposal, in addition to the types of schools listed by the importer, I propose that vocational education be included. We believe that the concept of "specialized schools" does not run out of vocational education. So we do concreteization, as you will see down where we explain that specialized schools include preparing for mathematics, arts, sports and so on, but they do not give professional training. We therefore believe that there is a significant difference. There are professional schools where you get a document for a completed profession. If you're in a specialized school where you study mathematics, you don't get a mathematician document, but if you train for a welder, you get a welder document, a passport, a class, and so on. And that is not to be taken into account in the Law. I believe that there is no rational explanation. If it's a matter of one majority to resolve it, we'll sort it out somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In addition to the technical importance of these names, which we are discussing at the moment, there is another issue. To destroy a system with very long traditions, the first thing you have to destroy is the terms in it that give the value of the system itself. With the term "enlightenment" we have done it, now we will do it with the term "general education." We are about to see what we are going to do with the sacred term "Teacher" as there is a desire for him to drop out, thus completely depreciating the law. Sometimes it seems that terms are not so important, but in such a Law they give an added value to the meaning of the Law itself. What we are commenting on is extremely important because I have heard voices from colleagues on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u122	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I propose a procedure to end the debate. We've heard enough arguments. Please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u123	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs Karayancheva's proposal to end the debate. Vote 88 MPs: 79 against 8, abstention 1. Debates have been suspended. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 12, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 11 against 60, abstention 21. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 36, which becomes art. 37 in the Commission report, which supports the text of the importer. They voted 94 MPs: 84, against 10, no abstentions. Article 37 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u124	A proposal from the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs is created art. 36a: Art. 36a. Specialized schools other than preparation under para. 2 provide specialized training in mathematics, natural sciences, sports, arts and culture. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u125	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u126	Dear colleagues, we are moving towards the final of an absurd member who will establish the following situation in secondary education in Bulgaria: non-specialized schools will be completed, where there will be certain specialized classes. Can most of the education be in non-specialized schools? Our suggestion is to rethink this concept. Don't think of it as an opposition proposal, just like that, because it's about the education system. What does it mean for most of them to graduate from a non-specialized school?! I don't see what's disturbing this concept or who.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 36a, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 13, against 53, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u128	Under art. 37 has a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from MP Milen Mihov and group. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal on points 2 to 6: "2." In para. 1 t. 2 ssssssssssss (I sssssssss) (I sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss ofssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss 3 High Schools (VІІ "ІІІ" class including) 4:..4. Technicums (III "III" class including) 4 and 5 becomes 5 and 6. 3. In para. 2 t. 2 "Professional Gymnasiums" is replaced by "Professional Gymnasiums"; a new item is created. Three, three. secondary schools with extended and profiled learning of arts music, fine art and choreography; 4. Alinea 3 acquires the following edit: The schools of general education are municipal, except for the technicians who are state-owned. 5. In paragraphs 5, 6 and 8, the words "non-specialised' shall be replaced by "general education'. 6. In para. 9 words are replaced by a school of general education and the words are replaced by a school of professional high schools. Proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs: Art. 37 is amended as follows: (a) para. 1: Art. 37. (1) According to the stage or degree of education schools are: 1. primary schools (I-IV class); 2. primary schools (I-VIII class); 3. profiled schools (VIII-XII class and IX-XII class); 4. professional high schools (IX-XII class); 5. vocational schools or classes (VI-VII class, VIII X class) 6. secondary schools (I-XII class). (b) A new para shall be created. 3: supplied schools and vocational schools are municipal, with the exception of vocational schools which carry out training in occupations that are important for the state. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 37, which becomes Art. 38: Art. 38. (1) According to the stage or degree of education, non-specialized schools are: 1. initial (I "IV class" including); 2. basic (I.. VII class including); 3. high schools (III " XII" class including); 4. united (I "X" class including); 5. medium (I s) XII class including). (2) According to the content of the preparation of the high schools under para. 1, t. 3 are: 1. profiled high schools; 2. Professional High Schools. (3) Under the terms and by the order of this law, the profiled high schools with a Mathematical or Natural Sciences profile are also entitled to carry out training in the classes of the secondary stage of the basic degree of education. (4) Non-specialized schools shall be municipal, except for professional high schools which are state-owned. (5) Under the terms and conditions of Chapter 18th, by order of the Minister of Education and Science on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality following a decision of the municipal council, professional high schools may be converted into municipal schools when performing training in professions important for the sustainable development of the municipality. (6) Non-specialized schools under para. 1 can be declared innovative schools with a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, subject to the requirements laid down in para. 7 and in state educational standards under para. 8. (7) Innovative schools are schools that achieve improvement in the quality of education, such as: 1. develop and implement innovative elements regarding the organisation and/or content of the training; 2. organize the management, training and learning environment in a new or improved way; 3. use new teaching methods; 4. develop in a new way educational content, curricula and study plans. (8) The criteria for determining schools as innovative in accordance with the requirements of this law shall be laid down in the state educational standard for the curriculum, the state educational standard for general education, the state educational standard for the organisation of activities in school education and the state educational standard for institutions. (9) Non-specialized schools under para. 1 can be declared as schools of national importance by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. (10) With the decision under para. 9 municipal non-specialized schools are declared state schools. (11) When the circumstances for the declaration of a non-specialized school are dropped, it acquires municipal status with a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Minister of Education and Science after a decision of the relevant municipal council. (12) When the circumstances of para. 7 and 8 for the announcement of a non-specialized school for innovative with a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal of the Minister of Education and Science his status as an innovative school is being revoked. (13) The decisions of the Council of Ministers under para. 6, 9, 11 and 12 are promulgated in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u129	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not sure that the proposal we have made on this text has been reported, but nevertheless, I will read it again to see how many...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u131	It's been reported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u132	Yes, but I will read it once again to pay attention, in my opinion, how clearly the structure is given in the content of the preparation. According to the stage or degree of education schools are: 1. primary schools (I-IV class); 2. primary schools (I-VIII class); 3. profiled schools (VIII-XII class and IX-XII class); 4. professional high schools (IX-XII class); 5. vocational schools or classes (VI-VII class, VIII X class) 6. secondary schools (I-XII class). And the next paragraph: The general education and vocational schools are municipal, with the exception of vocational high schools, which carry out training in occupations that are important for the state. The main thing in our proposal is for the three stages of training to be evenly distributed. The course to be from 1st to 4th grade, the primary from V to VIIIth grade and secondary education from IX to XIIth grade. This creates an even distribution of the burden of training throughout the entire education process until the acquisition of secondary education. This is the reason why it is better for primary education to end not in VIII, but in VIII, although we, as you can see, do not rule out in certain cases a deviation that reflects the training in certain specialties, but to be the general case. The second motive is social because when children can stay one year longer in the family, in the settlement in this complex, transitional age, it is always better both for their personal construction, for family care and for reducing the costs that parents spend on education. For many of them will hesitate if their child has to change his place of residence, his environment, and, in some cases, because of the inability to provide them with such a move. This is also support for schools in smaller towns and other settlements for detention of pedagogical personnel. With this decision you are taking, I fear that in just a few years, several dozen primary schools will be further closed, because in the fight for the redistribution of students and their earlier orientation to the third degree will also result in this effect. I therefore draw attention to the reasons for the proposal so that you can reconsider your decision. Finally, to point out a little paradoxically what it would look like not only the explanation, but probably the entry in some of the documents, because it will turn out that many students, for example, will have graduated from a secondary non-specialized school with specialized training mainly in dancing. This will give example the spectrum of education that has been obtained. This is already a result of the text you have previously voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are dealing with is clear that it is not ideological at all, it is not political, it is expert. That is why we also have a bearing on the issue of primary education and have made a proposal to graduate in the VIIIth grade. Apart from the arguments mentioned here, apart from the tradition, an essential issue that gives us arguments in this direction are the conversations we have had with a wide range of teachers, especially school managers in smaller towns. There is, justified or not, a concern that the removal of primary education with one class will lead to dropping children in the upper levels and continuing in a high school course. This is one of our main arguments, which gives us reason to insist on maintaining tradition. One more question I'd like to draw your attention to. We have made a proposal for professional high schools to reclaim their old names, which is also an expression of public attitudes, of some, we can also say local, regional or school traditions in the prestigious name of some such schools, which are proud of their name................................................................... Even here in this room, there are people who have graduated from such schools and are proud of their name. These are our arguments, they have no purpose to oppose the common framework for new distributions of levels and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u135	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Assoc. Mihov! The problem, I think, after listening to your speeches, is that you do not understand that this is a law which you said you generally support, but this is a law for yellow pavements, not for small settlements, and the importer does not care about small settlements. The other thing that matters is a technocratic law. There will be no trace of any traditions in education at the end. So the things that bother you, even though you support it, will happen. Thank you. [[Replying from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u137	Any other lines? Please don't call from the gym! Here you are, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u138	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I would like to draw attention to this article, which defines the degrees and stages of completion, because this is where the philosophy of secondary education is at stake. This is related to demographic issues, it is related to the general direction of development of the educational system. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the text of the importers of the Bill provides for the completion of primary education in the second grade. Here is the Minister, he can safely confirm, as all of us well know that the number of dropouts is growing. What stimulates us to reduce the years in which children necessarily spend at school? We increase the training, the education they have? We're increasing their social experience? We integrate them faster from the first to the third grade, especially if they're from minorities than from the first to the third grade? Why is primary education reduced by one year? What's going on? If the trend is reversed in society, I understand the increase in the number of graduates of secondary education, let's reduce the basics. Then it is clear that you will go to the next degree where specialization is more important. That's how I know it. That is, if we place an emphasis on secondary education specialization, then we reduce the duration of the basic degree, increase the specialized education, so that we have specialized training for students when they graduate. But when the number of dropouts grows in our society, the number of those who, rudely speaking, formally complete primary education in order to obtain driver's licenses, at the same time we reduce the time they spend in school. What kind of reform is this, to ask? What reform? What are we reforming? What are we doing? We're increasing the prep? What's this about? How can that be justified? With what rational argument, with which public trend? And finally, excuse me, but cheating other people's norms is not the best practice to make laws about a particular environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u140	You didn't read the laws until 1991.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u141	- What's the line? I won't. [[Replying from the hall.]] Now is the time to enter into a dialogue with the speaker. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u142	I expect a statement, I understand reactions. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There were all sorts of people that we just couldn't accept. We cannot accept, for example, the thesis of the 7th grade that it is not right to complete primary education because we have historical experience which was created for us by Decree No 330 and from this experience from 1954 to 1991 basic education was completed in the 7th grade. In this sense, I do not see how we can deny something when we say that we had quality education in those years. Secondly, we have a National Program for the Development of School Education, of Preschool Education and Training. This National Program has a time of action from 2006 to 2015 and it provides for a primary education with two stages of primary and secondary education to be completed in the 7th grade. This programme was adopted with the votes on the left of the Forty National Assembly. We believe that this new structure of school education, with two stages in the beginning and two stages in the middle, will give more clarity and order of the system, will create opportunities for vertical and horizontal passability to a much greater extent, will allow for a change of choice after a completed first high school stage in a second one, will allow for a good pre-university training, something that I think we all very much care for a close professional and profiled preparation in the second high school stage. We believe that this will solve a major problem facing education today. The gap between the completion of primary education and the acceptance after the completion of the VIII grade in professional and profiled high schools. Because in practice at the moment, professional and profiled high schools, given that only one year of schooling, issue a document of completed primary education. Moreover, the gap is so great in the profiled high schools that educational subjects such as Biology and Education, Physics and Astronomy, History and Civilization, Geography and Environmental Protection are also studied in IX. This total confusion at the moment, this way will eventually be eliminated. On the other hand, you say: more time, and eighth grade children to be with their families. You're talking about social problems, small settlements. Well, yes, we provide for the establishment of united schools precisely for a reason for these children to remain in these places, to be with their families not one, but, in fact, three years, to complete the X class, under the special conditions and the order that the law signs for the establishment of such united schools. After all, let us stand for a wonderful Bulgarian educational tradition. Profiled and professional high schools exist for 55 years. A similar intake is performed after the completion of the VIII grade. We want to deny this tradition and this experience? We ultimately need to create passability such as the completion of the VIII grade coincide with the completion of primary education. I think any other argument is untenable. And I'm saying this as a man in the system that I've been in for many years since 1981. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinova! First line.. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The existence in the secondary education system should not be taken into account as an argument in the preparation of the Law, but is not the main argument. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the reference to the declaration for settlement of secondary education from the time of the People's Republic of Bulgaria puts you in a confusional situation. [[Replying from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u145	Are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u146	Because we have to compare social economic realities to unparalleled social economic realities that are now. In the framework of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, illiteracy was eradicated. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Twenty years since Mrs. Marinska was in the system, illiteracy has been growing... [[Noise and lines.]] It's growing illiterate, dropping out of school. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In front of the Bulgarian universities were a queue of students who waited and stood for days to see if they were accepted. Currently, the Rector of Sofia University is looking for students to complete its specialties. Do you think that these two realities have something in common to refer to the documents in this formal way? Excuse me, our appeal is not to get into unnecessary confrontation, because education is not such a sphere. Our well-meaning has also been demonstrated during the discussions in the Commission, but we want a meaningful conversation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Content conversation involves taking into account the actual circumstances, not the model. I cannot understand one of Mrs Marinska's main arguments about how with the degrees of education... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u147	The line is for Mrs. Marinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u148	Sorry, Mrs. Marinova. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Marinova.]] Excuse me, I'll buy you a drink. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I cannot understand why the degrees of education should compensate for the shortcomings in the Training Programme? I don't get it. If you need to correct the program in order not to study something to the next degree, correct the program, not change the grades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u149	Thank you. Second line? Mrs. Damyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor for a line, not for another reason, but to correct Mrs. Marinova, because this is a practice that, colleagues on the left, works for many years. She quoted 1954, and I will quote the Moushanov Law from 1909, which acted until 1948, an extremely successful law. [[(Noise and lines from BSP LB: Why was there illiteracy at the time of this Law?]] By the way, many of the ideas are also embedded in the Bill we are currently looking at. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u151	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u152	This is the time when there are many fellow historians here, very well know where Bulgaria is positioned in terms of economic development then. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u153	Please don't call from the gym, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u154	Otherwise, I respect the opinion of the professional community, which actively participates in the development of this Bill. It is important to hear and consider what is the opinion of teachers, directors, active professional and educational community. Colleagues, we have complied with it, and the basic idea is to keep the children not until the 7th grade, not until the 8th grade, but at least until the 10th grade, to give them the opportunity then and for a closer specialized training to ensure their realization in the labour market.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u155	Is there a third line to Mrs. Marinova? I won't. Let me ask Mr. Zablyanov, when you first said in your line Mrs. Marinska, did you mean Mrs. Marinova? [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Yeah, I didn't understand either. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So all this time you were referring to Mrs. Marinova, which means Mrs. Marinska won't be entitled to a personal explanation. [[(Radio.) A line from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.)]] Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the stay is yes, we are all definitely not for school residence, but for active work at school. I think that in the Committee on Education and Science, previously acting teachers have not been residing at all, but have actively worked. In this sense, the experience of the professional community Mrs. Damyanova spoke of is extremely important to us and gives us the self-esteem of lawmakers from the system. You're talking about constructiveness. There wasn't one in your line in any way. You're talking about kindness, which I also couldn't understand in any way. The curriculum was about whether you were referring to compressing the educational content from eight to seven years of age. I do not know what you mean, but I will professionally tell you that the educational standards will be developed on the basis of a basic educational degree structure up to 7th grade. In this sense there will be no compression of the educational content, on the basis of 7th grade the expected results in the system will be drawn. As for teachers, yes, many schools are not currently holding, however, do not have 8th grade because most of them are accepted in professional and profiled high schools. If your proposal is accepted, however, there will be a disaster for professional and profiled high schools, which will not have a reception for a year, which will bring on the street capable, intelligent, dedicated teachers of a foreign language. I don't think that's what you want. After all, we are looking for a solution that will benefit children, teachers, the system, and I think that is the solution. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u157	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinova. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, which is not supported in his part of this. 2 to t. 6 We are voting on an unsupported proposal by the MP Milen Mihov. They voted 91 MPs: 13 against 12, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 17 against 57 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting the text to the vote in art. 38 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 74 against 11, abstention 5. Article 38 on the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I was going to abstain from this negative vote, but when they gave me an example of the Law from 1909 to 1948 and missed the level of education of the Bulgarian people then and after 1948, there is no way I could abstain and not say why I voted negatively. Colleagues, one more little reason and she's purely pragmatic. Given that basic education is still mandatory, which suggests that everyone should finish it, suggests that they should stay at least eight classes in school, I am very worried that if we reduce them by one year and when we have a lack of an educational center for mayors, MPs and city councilmen instead of staying and educating one year more, we get to this level that we are today. Thank you. [[(Laughter) It's a thrill. Partial applause by BSP LB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u159	Are there any other negative votes? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Self-criticism is a good thing. Please, Mrs. Damyanova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u160	Under art. 38 has a proposal from the National Representative Borislav Veliev and a group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group which the Commission does not support: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38 the following changes shall be made: (a) in para. 1 the sentence is deleted and the expression "with secondary education in the field of: natural and mathematical sciences, humanities and public sciences, medicine, technology, security, sports, arts, culture and for the needs of faiths' is added after the word "Cadres'. (b) in para. 2: - T. 2 acquires the following version: "2." Art and Culture Schools (I - XII, V - XII class, VIII - XII or IX - XII class including); - a new t. 3: "3." persons (V - XII grade) "Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Humanitarianism and Culture (V - XII class and VIII - XII class including); - a new t. Four, and so far, so far. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is "4." professional colleges (IX - XII grade and/or after completed XII grade) ed: Technologies Health care security and protection of public policy; (c) para. 4 is amended as follows: The Schools of Arts and Culture are state-owned, determined by criteria, conditions and by order laid down in the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. (d) Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 5, 6 and 7: The persons are state or municipal schools and carry out training in specialized programmes drawn up in cooperation with higher schools and/or with scientific organisations. Faces are found in accordance with the terms and conditions of this law. (6) Professional colleges are state or municipal schools whose aim is to master a particular profession. They shall carry out training on specialised programmes drawn up in cooperation with the portfolio ministries. Professional colleges are opened under the terms and conditions of this law. (7) Spiritual are the schools opened in accordance with this law by the religious institutions in the country for children who have graduated primary education. Proposal by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 39: Art. 39. (1) The schools are specialized in training staff in the field of sports, arts, culture and the needs of religion. (2) The specialized schools shall be: 1. sports schools (V-II class including); 2. schools of culture (I-XII, V-XII or VIII-XII class including); 3. schools of arts (II-III, V-III class or VIII-III class including); 4. Spiritual Schools (III-III class including). (3) Sports schools are state or municipal. State are sports schools defined by criteria, under conditions and by order laid down in the Law on Physical Education and Sports. (4) The schools of culture and arts schools are state-owned. (5) Specialized School under para. 2, p. 1, 2 and 3 may be declared an innovative school in accordance with art. 38, para. 6 subject to the requirements of art. 38, para. 7 and the criteria under art. 38, para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u161	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u162	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! You're carefully monitoring the discussion. So far you have found no reason to add your arguments, but I believe that not to resemble the famous character of a Bulgarian poem by a also famous author. Just briefly add the arguments for this proposal. It is partly a continuation of the discussion on the previous text. In our opinion, specialized training is not only necessary for art and sports. That's what I'm talking about. We offer a broader and more diverse structure related to the modern requirements and the stated intentions for the development of our country. This structure would respond to the real needs of Bulgaria and it could solve some of the national personnel problems in the preparation of staff in the field of natural and mathematical sciences, public, medicine, technology, security and already listed sports, arts, culture, as well as the needs of faiths. We also offer professional colleges and faces, schools that will provide a link between secondary and higher education, which will cook medium-sized specialists and thus be able to improve the interaction between higher and secondary schools. Even at one time, when I listened to what Mrs Damyanova read, it seemed to me that this text of the Commission sounded very good. Sorry, that was part of the unacceptable text we're proposing. I do not know why, with such persistence, even already in your adopted structure and scheme, you do not seek to enrich the contents of the Law. I don't have any other arguments to add. We say this rather to be a relatively complete argumentation on this important topic, not because we have so naive expectations that something will be revised after the process has developed inertialy and has led to familiar results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 10, against 60, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the edited text of the importer for art. Art. 38, which in the Commission's report becomes art. 39 and supported by the same. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 8, no abstentions. Article 39 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u164	Under art. 39 has a proposal from MP Willy Lilkov and a group. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 4. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 5. There is a proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group. The Commission does not support the proposal: Art. 39 (3) is amended as follows: s) Natural and/or legal persons may set up private schools under art. 37, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 38, para. 2, p. 1-4. There is a proposal of the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 39, which becomes art. 40: Art. 40. (1) Private are kindergartens and schools established by natural and/or legal persons such as commercial companies, non-profit legal entities or cooperatives or as companies under the legislation of a Member State. (2) Private kindergartens and schools shall carry out their activities after entering into the register of institutions in the system of pre-school and school education under the terms and conditions of this law. (3) Natural and/or legal persons may establish private schools under art. 38, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 39, para. 2, p. 1-3. (4) Private kindergartens and schools may conduct training and issue documents for completed pre-school education, respectively for a completed class, stage or degree of school education in accordance with both the requirements of this law and the legislation of another Member State, provided that they have been authorised in accordance with the legislation of that Member State and the preparation may be carried out in combination with the requirements of the educational system of the country which issued the authorisation and the state educational standards under art. 22. (5) Private school under para. 1 may be declared an innovative school in accordance with Article 1. 38, para. 6 subject to the requirements of art. 38, para. 7 and the criteria under art. 38, para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u165	Statements? There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 13, against 58, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 39, which is edited by the Commission and has found its place in art. 40 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 80, against 10, abstention 3. Article 40 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u166	A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in Articles 38, 39 and 40. Under art. 40 has a proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. Article 251 345. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Jablyanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 40 new paras are created. 2 and para.3: The establishment, operation and termination of spiritual schools shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers and after approval by the Minister of Education and Science. (3) Education obtained in spiritual schools shall be aligned to the secular education and science ministry, provided that the state educational requirements for the relevant degree of education are complied with. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u167	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to the text that regulates the creation of spiritual schools and point out something that contradicts and was the reverse logic of what has been said so far. It is at this point that a good solution has been reached for me within the Commission on the basis of the content of our proposal and the proposal made by Mr. Mihov, because obviously the original text submitted with a blanquet registration of spiritual schools does not correspond, at least, to the social political moment not only in Bulgaria, this has been arranged in the best possible way in the current situation. We support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. We are going to vote on the proposal by the MP Valeri Zablyanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 14 against 8, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 40, which is supported by the Commission and becomes art. 41 in her report. Vote 92 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 11. Article 41 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u170	A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The proposal is withdrawn under para. One sentence, two. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 38. Under art. 41 there is a proposal from the National Representative Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 41, which becomes art. 42: Art. 42. (1) Schools are daily and evening. (2) Schools under art. 38, 39, 44 and 46 are opened as day schools. Under the terms and conditions of this law, all forms of training can be organized in them. (3) In evening schools shall be organized training in evening form for the acquisition of basic and secondary education and/or professional qualification of persons aged 16 years and, in the cases provided for in this Law, for persons aged 14 years. (4) Under the terms and conditions of this law in evening schools can be organized independently, individually and combined form of training. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42, which becomes art. 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u171	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 42 in accordance with the Commission report, which is a version of the text of the importer for art. 41, as well as the text of the importer for art. 42, which becomes art. 43 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 90, none, abstention 10. Articles 42 and 43 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u172	Under art. 43 has a proposal from the MP Stanislav Stanilov: "Article 43 to be amended as follows: Art. 43. (1) Special schools shall be: 1. for training and support of students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development; 2. for training and support of students with sensory impairment.. impaired hearing or impaired vision; 3. educational schools in boarding schools; 4. Social-pedagogical boarding schools. (2) The special schools of para. 1: 1. are of the intern or semi-internate type with the full-time organization of the school day, provided nutrition and in the presence of the necessary material base with organized dorm; 2. reveal therapeutic complexes in which activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, their professional orientation, counseling and social inclusion are organised; (3) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 training is carried out to complete a class without acquiring a degree of education and assessments are made with only a qualitative indicator. (4) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 training shall also be provided for the acquisition of professional qualifications. The Commission does not support the proposal referred to in the paragraphs 1 and 4 which I have read. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for.... 8................................................................................................... Proposal by MP Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 1, t. 1 after Sensitive Disability, hearing or distress is added, or students with special educational needs where integration into a mass school is not possible and this is certified by the parent by presenting a document by a specialist concerned; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 2 between the Special Schools are of the same type as the Internate type with full-time organization of the school day, provided meals and dormitory. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following changes are made: In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. for training and support of students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development; (b) t. 1 " 3" becomes pcs, respectively. 2... 4.............................................................. 2. Paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The special schools: 1. are of the boarding school type with the full-time organization of the educational process, provided nutrition and in the presence of the necessary material base with organized dorms; 2. reveal therapeutic complexes in which activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, their professional guidance, counseling and social inclusion are organised. 3. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 training is carried out to complete a class without acquiring a degree of education and assessments are made with only a qualitative indicator. (4) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 training shall be provided for the acquisition of professional qualifications. 4. Alinea 3 becomes al. 5 with the following content: In special schools under para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 4 shall be taught for the completion of a class and for the acquisition of basic and secondary education and training for the acquisition of professional qualifications. 5. Alinea 4 becomes an al. 6 as the expression "al." 1, t. 1 is replaced by the expression "al." 1, t. Two, three and four. 6. Alinea 5 becomes al. 7 containing the following: In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 can be organized and conducted pre-school training and education to reach school readiness of children with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development and of children with sensory disabilities. 7. The creation of para. 8. In special schools under para. 1, t. 2 can be organized and carried out early impact and rehabilitation of children up to 3 years of age with sensory impairment 8. Alinea 6 and para. 7 becomes respectively. 9th para. 10. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. In principle, the Commission supports the proposal under para 4. The proposal is withdrawn under para. 10: Art. 43 to obtain the following version: The special schools are: 1. (new) training and support for students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development and for students with an average degree of mental retardation; 2. for the training and support of students with sensory impairments, impaired hearing, impaired vision or children with sensory-integrating and severe communication disorders; 3. educational schools in boarding schools; 4. Social-pedagogical boarding schools. (2) (new) Special schools under para. 1: 1. are of the intern or semi-internate type with the full-time organization of the school day, provided nutrition and in the presence of the necessary material base with organized dorm; 2. reveal therapeutic complexes in which activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, their professional orientation, counseling and social inclusion are organised; (3) (new) In special schools under para. 1 t. 1 training is carried out to complete a class without acquiring a degree of education and assessments are made with only a qualitative indicator. (4) (new) In special schools under para. 1 t. 1 training shall also be provided for the acquisition of professional qualifications. Proposal by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov and a group of MPs: Art. 43 is amended as follows: Art. 43. (1) According to the specific educational needs of the students schools are: 1. schools of socializing education; 2. healing schools; 3. Schools 2nd chance. 4. Schools for children with deviant behavior; 5. schools to the places of imprisonment; 6. schools established under an international contract in which this issue is settled; 7. Bulgarian schools abroad; (2) The schools under para. One is state. (3) The schools for socializing education are of the boarding or semi-intern type with full-time organization of the school day and with provided meals, dorms and transport. (4) Special socializing schools for students with specific needs and peculiarities of intellectual development shall also provide training for the completion of a class and without the acquisition of a degree of education and shall be evaluated with qualitative and quantitative indicators. (5) The schools of socializing education shall also provide training for the acquisition of professional qualifications, the first degree of professional qualification or qualification under part of the profession, under the conditions and under the terms of the Professional Education and Training Act. (6) Special schools under para. 1, t. 1 have a full-time organization of the school day and provide food, and if necessary, with the necessary material base and an organized dorm. (7) Training and support of students with sensory impairments is carried out in the schools of socializing education, hearing or impaired vision, students of the autistic spectrum and students with multiple disabilities. (8) To special schools under para. 1, t. 1 may be disclosed: 1. consultative offices, early diagnosis and correction/ rehabilitation of deficiencies for children up to 3 years of age; 2. therapeutic complexes in which activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, their professional orientation, counseling and social inclusion are organized. 3. day-to-day support centers for persons of 18 years. (9) Schools are for students of compulsory school age who have suspended their education for more than one year, as well as for persons who have completed 16 years without primary or secondary education. Training for primary and secondary education and/or professional qualification is organized in the schools. For students at compulsory school age, schools are of a boarding school type with full-time organization of the school day and with food and dorms provided. (10) Schools for children with deviant behavior are socio-pedagogical boarding schools and educational schools boarding schools whose main content is correctional and educational activities. (11) Health schools are for students with chronic diseases who are trained for a certain period of time. Healing schools except training under para. 4 Rehabilitation and work are carried out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 1........................................................... The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 5.. 8............................................................................... In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43 the following changes are made: (a) in para. 1: (aa) a new t is created. 1, and the previous t. 1, 2 and 3 shall be renumbered as follows: 2, 3 and 4: "1." for the training and support of students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development; (b) New para. are created. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8: The special schools under para. 1: 1. have a full-time organization of the school day, provided nutrition and in the presence of a necessary material base with an organized hostel; 2. reveal therapeutic complexes with specialized offices in which activities supporting the inclusion, training and education of children and students with specific needs and peculiarities in intellectual development, their professional orientation, counseling and social inclusion are organised; (3) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 training shall be carried out for the completion of a class; (4) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 training for the acquisition of professional qualifications shall also be provided. A proposal from the MP Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 44: Art. 44. (1) Special schools shall be: 1. for training and support of students with sensory impairment.. impaired hearing or impaired vision; 2. educational schools in boarding schools; 3. Social-pedagogical boarding schools. (2) The special schools of para. 1, t. 1 have a full - time organization of the school day, provided meals, and, if necessary, a dorm. (3) The special schools shall be trained for the completion of a class and for the acquisition of primary and secondary education. Special schools also provide training to acquire professional qualifications. (4) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 a profiled preparation may be carried out. (5) In special schools under para. 1, t. 1 pre-school education of children with sensory impairment can also be organized and conducted.. impaired hearing or impaired vision before entering the first grade. (6) By exception in special schools under para. 1, t. 1 can be considered for upbringing, upbringing, socialization and training and children aged two years. (7) By exception in special schools under para. 1, t. 1 Nature groups for raising children from 10 months to 3 years of age may be revealed under conditions and in order adopted by the ordinance under art. 24, para. 4. (8) The boarding schools are for training students who have performed anti-social activities. (9) Social pedagogical boarding schools are for the training of students who do not have adequate living conditions in their family, deprived of parental care and supervision or have performed antisocial activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u173	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. This is where we break up. Tomorrow we will continue the debates on art. 43. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 11 September 2015 at 11:00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Velizar Enchev, Krasimir Yankov, and Svetoslav Belemezov. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer six questions from the MPs Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Slavi Binev, Gunay Husmen, Stefan Kenov, Desislava Atanasova, and Desislav Chukolov. 3. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer five questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Nevin Hassan, Cornelia Ninova, Velizar Enchev, and Stefan Kenov and one question from the MP Dora Yankova. 4. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer four questions from the MPs Filip Popov, Ivan Stankov and Svetoslav Belemezov, Svetla Bachvarova and Krasimir Yankov, and Georgi Bojinov. 5. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Slavi Binev. 6. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov, and Velizar Enchev. 7. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions, and Peter Hristov Petrov. 8. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer a question from the MP Slavi Binev. 9. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, asking the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to six questions with a written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Valentin Pavlov, three questions; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to two questions from the National Representative Volen Siderov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question written by the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Antony Trenchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, and Petar Slavov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - five questions from the National Representative Maya Manolova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; - a question from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. Due to a prior commitment, the Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting, Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The questions are 27, the questions are 2. The total number of questions and questions is 29. The necessary time for parliamentary control is 4 hours and 33 minutes. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-09-10.u174	Tomorrow we start at 9:00, we continue with legislative activity. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
