ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u1	We have the necessary quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear Members of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for an extraordinary meeting on 1 December 2015, Tuesday, 11:00 to 19:00 on the following agenda: 1. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2016. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 30 October 2015, adopted on the first vote on 18 November 2015. 2. Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2016. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 30 October 2015, adopted at first vote on 18 November 2015. 3. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. Importer "The Council of Ministers," 30 October 2015, adopted at first vote on 19 November 2015. We are voting, honourable Members, on the proposal for an extraordinary meeting next Tuesday. [[National Representative Atanas Merdjanov wants a reverse proposal.]] 140 MPs voted: 108, against 18, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We move on to today's agenda with the first item: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND ON THE SUBSTITUTION OF LOGISTIC SUBSTITUTION FOR MIG-29 AIRPORTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 29 October 2015. There are reports from three committees. The Committee on Defence is the lead. Which of the colleagues will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, N 502-02-35, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015. At a meeting held on 5 November 2015, the Defence Committee of the United Nations (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council)) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council) (UN Security Council)) (UN Security Council Special Notice) (UN Security Council Special Notice) (UN Security Council Special Notice) (UN Security Council Special Notice) (UN Security Council Special Notice). 2 of the agenda examined the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft submitted to the National Assembly on 29 October 2015. The meeting was attended by 16 MPs. The Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence with an expert team were also present, as were Prime Minister Anu Angelov's adviser. The order of the President of the National Assembly was reduced to the Members of the National Assembly by the President of the Commission. The agreement was presented by the director of the Defence Association Directorate of the Ministry of Defence Velislav Tsanov. People's representatives Vladimir Gajev, Valentin Radev, Angel Naydenov, Korman Iamailov and Yanko Yankov participated in the discussion. The main thesis in the speeches was the assessment of the need to ratify the treaty and the confidence that the Polish side has the technological capabilities to repair six engines in the current state of our Air Force. At the same time, it was noted that the seriousness and concern of the ratification of the MiG-29 logistics support agreement with Poland was the result of the non-renewal at the beginning of September this year of the maintenance contract with Russia at a time and conditions when almost all fighters' operational resources had expired. The Defence Committee has assessed that the Council of Ministers is very committed to this political, technical and financial problem in order to ensure the short-term airworthiness of three MiG-29 aircraft for the country's airspace security for the next year, year and a half. It was noted that the recovered resource of 200 hours per engine provides a limited period of use and does not solve the issue of maintenance or modernisation of the aircraft in the Bulgarian Air Force. The Defence Committee is satisfied that in all 16 articles and 7 anexes, the rights and obligations of the Parties are described and regulated, the deadlines for implementation, the transport mechanism, the risks, the quality and compliance, the guarantee liability and the relevant damages claims ensuring the agreement. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly was also discussed, given that, together with the military technical aspects and the agreed logistics support mechanism, the Agreement has political dimensions and specific specificity. To the questions asked about the technical nature and guarantees for the implementation of the Agreement, possible problems with third parties in the course of its implementation, problems in terms of likely use of intellectual property and ways to ensure the fitness of the engines after the completion of the repair, the management of the Ministry of Defence gave tranquilizer answers. By thanking the Minister of Defence for the efforts to sign the Agreement with Poland to provide logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, and taking into account the need for the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria and fulfilling the constitutional obligations of the country's Armed Forces, the members of the Defence Commission agreed that it was necessary to proceed as quickly as possible to its implementation. 16 MPs attended the vote held after the discussion: with 12 votes for the vote, without the opposition and 4 votes for the abstention, the Defence Committee of the 43rd National Assembly adopted the following decision: He proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85 para. 1, points 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to accept the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for MiG 29 aircraft. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Please come in for a procedure. Mr. Merdjanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Due to the outstanding interest in the topic, which concerns the Bulgarian public, military and various external factors, I propose a direct transmission of the discussion on this issue on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u4	Thanks for the offer. Does anyone want a reverse opinion? No. My fellow Members, I am voting on the procedural proposal that the examination of the point be transmitted directly to the national public media. They voted 129 MPs: 46 against 37, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the presentation of the report by the Committee on Budget and Finance. He'll introduce us to Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u5	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, No 502-02-35, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015. At a regular meeting held on 19 November 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, No 502 02-35, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Defence. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft was signed on 22 October 2015 in Warsaw. Its aim is to ensure, in the short term, the airworthiness of MiG-29 aircraft, which is essential for the activities of the Ministry of Defence in the security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and adequate participation in the performance of the tasks as a NATO member. The financial resources to secure national funding for the implementation of the Agreement will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Rules on arbitration are laid down in the event of unresolved disputes between the two parties which could not be resolved through mutual negotiations. In accordance with art. 13.1 of the Agreement establishes exemption from the taxes and charges due in the country resulting from the implementation of the Agreement, which imposes its ratification on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the agreement, a discussion was held in which the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support. After the discussion of the draft followed a vote, which ended with the following results: With 13 votes in favour, 3 votes in opposition and without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, No 502-02-35, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. People's representative Danail Kirilov will present him as the chairman of this Commission. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, No 502-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015. At its meeting held on 4 November 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Defence: Mrs. Desislava Yosifova Deputy Minister, Colonel Vladislav Sekerov Head of Sector, Aviation Equipment and Armour, Ms. Milena Marinova Head of International Law Department, and Mr. Venislav Tsanov Director of Defense Office. The bill was presented by Mr. Venislav Tsanov. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft was signed on 22 October 2015 in Warsaw. The adoption of the Law on ratification of the Agreement aims to ensure in the short term the airworthiness of MiG-29 aircraft, which is essential for the activities of the Ministry of Defence in the airspace security of the Republic of Bulgaria and adequate participation in the performance of the tasks as a member of NATO. The discussion was attended by the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov and Dimitar Lazarov. Mr. Georgiev raised several questions about whether the Agreement concerns other existing contractual relations in which Bulgaria participates; whether the absence of clauses in the contract that provide for sanctions in the event of its failure does not put our country at risk; whether funds are provided in the budget for next year for payment of the contract; is there a preliminary technical expertise for the suitability of the two Polish engines that will be used until the completion of the repair and is there any guarantees regarding the quality of the repair? In response Mr. Tsanov, Mrs. Marinova and Mr. Sekerov explained that there is no conflict between the agreement proposed for ratification and the framework agreement for the delivery of different volumes and types of services, which have expired; the provisions provided for for the possibility of the Bulgarian State to terminate the Agreement and regarding the time of payment (after the service) guarantee its interests in the event of default; the planned payment after delivery of the engines postpone it for the following year and this allows the planning of the funds; in the reception of the engines their condition is assessed, taking into account the established standards and the formed documentation, including the certified repair with the corresponding resources; the repair is carried out according to the technology validated by the chief engineer of the Polish Air Force, and the quality of the repairs carried out shall be guaranteed by the Polish side, with a double increase in guarantee of 200 hours, instead of the standard provided by 100 hours of flight. In response to the questions raised by Mr. Slavov regarding the comparison of the parameters related to the price, the period of execution and the period of the guarantee in the previous contract, which expired and the parameters in the agreement under discussion, the ratification of which is proposed, Mr. Tsanov noted that the price is significantly lower with the Polish side, the execution period is 6 months, compared to 11 In response to the questions asked by Mr. Lazarov regarding the cost of transporting the engines and the moment of passing the risk of loss and damage, Mrs. Marinova and Mr. Sekerov noted that transportation from the Bulgarian airport to the Polish airport and from the Polish airport after repair is at the expense of the Polish country, and the risk passes at the time of the transmission, which is scheduled to take place at the airport. With regard to the question posed by Mr. Kirilov concerning the existence of licensing rights which have effect, Mr. Tsanov explained that there is no license that could lead to a breach of third party rights. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29, No 502-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For the procedure.. the people representative Hristo Gardzhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u9	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I would like to make a procedure for access to the Hall of Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Defence, and Venislav Tsanov, Director of Defense Office at the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u10	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting for admission in the House of Those Men. They voted 102 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the mentioned colleagues to the Chamber. Minister Nenchev, you have the floor on behalf of the importer to motivate the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Maintaining the airworthiness of MiG-29 aircraft in the Bulgarian Air Force is of paramount importance to the country with a view to protecting the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and adequate participation in the performance of airspace security tasks as a NATO member. In search of opportunities to overcome dependence on third parties and diversification for maintenance of MiG-29 aircraft, an analysis of the framework agreement with RSK was carried out in the Ministry of Defence for technical assistance in the maintenance and operation of Bulgarian aircraft. In parallel, a study was carried out on the possibilities of economic operators from the European Union, countries with which NATO is concerned. The study found that Poland is the only country among the circle outlined, which has economic and technological capabilities for maintenance and repair of MiG-29 aircraft and provides similar activities for the Polish air force. The preparation of the conclusion of the Agreement with the Republic of Poland on the repair of MiG-29 began in February 2015 following the visit of Bulgarian delegations to the Republic of Poland, discussing for the first time the possibilities for deepening military technical cooperation. During the negotiations with the Polish side, co-operation agreements were drawn up and agreed between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Poland and a letter of intent between the Minister of National Defence of Poland and the Minister of Defence of Bulgaria for Military Technical Cooperation. The documents were signed on 28 August 2015 during the official visit of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland Tomas Shemoniac in Bulgaria. For several months, a draft intergovernmental agreement on integrated logistics support for MiG-29 aircraft was drawn up. In the beginning of October, a Bulgarian working group visited the Republic of Poland to get acquainted with the possibilities and finalize the clauses of the intergovernmental agreement. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support to MiG-29 was signed by me on 22 October 2015 in Warsaw on the basis of Decision of the Council of Ministers No 776 of 8 October 2015, which gave me a mandate for negotiations on the draft agreement and was authorised to sign it. The agreement aims to ensure for the short term the airworthiness of MiG-29 aircraft, providing for the following basic arrangements: repair of six Bulgarian RD-33 engines is carried out and temporary use of two Polish engines takes place for two years or 200 flight hours. The value of the service subject to the Agreement amounts to 6 million. 138,000. Euros. The agreed price for repair of one engine is 1 million. Twenty-three thousand. Euros. Transport costs related to engine repair will be borne by the Polish side. The engine operation period after repair shall be 350 hours and their full warranty shall be two years or 200 hours. The two Polish temporary-use engines will be provided within 20 days of the signing of the Agreement and its entry into force. The first two repaired engines will be delivered to Bulgaria within seven months of the entry into force of the Agreement, including the time for issuing the relevant export decisions of the engines by the authorized state authorities and the time needed for transport. The following repaired engines will be delivered to Bulgaria within 11 months of the entry into force of the Agreement. The repair of the engines will be carried out in full Polish documentation, without prejudice to the intellectual levels of third parties. The Ministry of National Defence of Poland, respectively the Polish State, on the basis of the quality authorities and national documents developed and validated by the Polish States, which are set out in the Annex, will be a guarantee for the quality of the repairs. The quality management system of the Republic of Poland meets the requirements of NATO Union quality assurance publications. All disputes arising under the Agreement shall be addressed to the International Arbitration Court of the International Chamber of Commerce. The conclusion of the Agreement shall be in accordance with art. 13 point (e) of Directive 2009/81/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 coordinating the procedure for the award of certain works, supplies and services contracts by contracting authorities or contracting entities in the field of defence and security and amending Directives 2004: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland informed the Bulgarian country that the internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft are completed. The Bulgarian procedure remains to be completed. Under the negotiated Agreement, it shall enter into force from the date of dispatch from the Bulgarian side of the notification to the Polish side of the completion of our internal procedure, namely the Ratification by the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u12	Thank you, Minister Nenchev. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. First of all, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev from the Group of Independent National Representatives has signed up for a speech. Keep in mind, Mr. Enchev, that it is possible that other colleagues from this group would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u13	I've consulted, none of them will speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u14	Then you have in five minutes for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u15	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Today we are discussing Ratification for extending the life of aircraft for the Bulgarian Air Force MiG-29. However, this can only be done under European law by the main constructor, in this case the aircraft manufacturer, the MIG Corporation. I remind you that in Ordinance No 21 of 14 June 2010, when you were in power, in the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for certification, the airworthiness of military aircraft voted in the National Assembly is written the following, I quote: Only the manufacturer has the right to repair. This means that Minister Nenchev and his deputy Mr. Kyumurdzhiev do not know the Regulation on airworthiness and perhaps have not even read it. Why, dear Minister, are you going to Poland when Bulgaria has more experience than Poles in the repairs of military planes? Only a dozen years ago, similar repairs were carried out in Sofia, but the main constructor, i.e. the Russian manufacturer, sent 20 people to follow the process and finally the main constructor put his signature on it. Now I ask the lobbyists about this Ratification: what will be the safety of the flights with our fighters after repairs in Poland, after the fitness of the aircraft after repairs is legally certified only by the repair plants manufacturers? This means that Poland has no right to validate an extension of the resource and cannot guarantee the quality of the repair! Why, then, do I ask, the military minister persists and insists that the repairs take place in Poland and nowhere else? My first explanation for this absurdity is this: the Ministry of Defense wants to appeal to the United States of America, who do not want us to have Russian military equipment. However, there is a second explanation, this is a question: perhaps because of the commission from the Poles. A third explanation is also a question: perhaps because of the first two.. both because of the American pressure and because of the Polish commissions! Now I am obliged to give a warning to Minister Nenchev as the life of Bulgarian pilots is threatened! At the moment, Minister Nenchev, when you send the fighters for repairs to Poland, they will be scrapped as, first, the MIG Corporation starts cases against us and second, the MIG Corporation withdraws the guarantee for the planes! From the information I have yesterday from the Air Force, after the renovation in Poland, at least a dozen pilots have said they will refuse to fly aircraft whose safety is not guaranteed by the Russian manufacturer! I also appeal to the lawmakers in the right part of the Chamber who will support the Ratification of the Treaty. Since Minister Nenchev and Deputy Minister Kyumyrdzhiev are your appointments, Mr. Kyumyrdzhiev led the negotiations at operational level, the appointments of the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front, you will also have political responsibility for the early landing of our MiG-29, whose flying resource, I stress, expires in 2029! You will be responsible for the lives of Bulgarian pilots if you repair these fighters in Poland! Are you ready, I ask you, to bear this responsibility?! On Wednesday, I organized a press conference in the couloirs of the National Assembly of the representative of MIG. Alexander Alexandrov is a hero of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and a hero of the Soviet Union! [[Noise and lines from RB.]] And he asked: by what logic last year Bulgaria's Air Force repaired eight engines in Russia and then Minister Nenchev did not request ratification from parliament, and now for six engines that will be repaired in Poland, you want ratification? The answer is one, and it is a murderous "Military Ministry" transfers responsibility for the repairs to parliament if our MiG-29 blows up in the air, as it happened in Algeria two years ago. And this was delivered by the hero of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the hero of the Soviet Union the second Bulgarian cosmonaut Alexander Alexandrov! [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Radev.]] The Algerian affair with MiG-29 is a red signal, a red light for all of you who are about to vote! Vote on your conscience! And you, generals and admirals of the Reformation bloc and GERB party, think before you vote whether you are pressing the button for the catapult of the Bulgarian pilots from this plane that will crash, as the Algerian plane crashes. At the moment, the Algerian government is suing the Polish plant where we will repair our fighter! The Russian corporation is conducting the same case against the Polish factory, which has allowed itself to put in the rotors of these aircraft MiG-29 used spare parts from Ukraine! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Are there lines? I won't. The way you're holding Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u17	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, I think I have listed here at least three violations of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to draw your attention and assess whether measures really should not be taken. We are currently discussing an intergovernmental agreement between Bulgaria and the Republic of Poland. At the same time, there is going out and spoken openly for the benefit of a private company, or with public participation, I cannot tell you exactly, it is quoted by name and it is explained how wonderful it is in the world. What does this have to do with the Interstate Treaty we're discussing? [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I urge you to consider whether or not it's right for the speaker to be... [[Extreme lines from BSP LB.]] Please, to the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u18	Please be quiet in this room. I have to listen carefully to the accusations against me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u19	My point is whether or not the Ethics Committee should deal with these open lobbying actions and assess whether there is a conflict of interest. Second of all, they hear insinuations about commissions, almost someone took them and so on. Once again, it seems to me that the Ethics Committee should intervene to clarify this issue as well. If there is a particular reproach to be said, it should be said. If these are slanders, then let them be treated as slanders. And on the left, please very much, when you hear about the Soviet Union, there is more time, we will comment on these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u20	Mr. Slavov, I have no way of knowing who has what thoughts in their head, and at any given moment what they're going to offer, but thank you for the questions I'm going to try to keep track of. Any other speeches? We have already requested the people representative Atanas Zafirov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Zafirov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill in question today can be summarized with one question to Mr. Minister, namely: Mr. Minister, I do not know what kind of personal car you have, but when your minister's office is broken down. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] If we lived and worked in a normal and democratic environment, perhaps the answer to this question would run out of all of today's discussion. Since this is clearly not the case, we will have to debunk several misconceptions. The Bulgarian society has been misled, and now the National Assembly is being made such an attempt to fool itself. The ultimate aim of this exercise is to clarify the responsibility and the Bulgarian Parliament to become an accomplice in a violation, colleagues, to which only my respect for this tribune prevents me from giving a more colorful definition. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] In our proposed Agreement, there are several frankly false things, but since it is preceded by a very serious similar proposal from the manufacturer of the site of this Agreement, I will base my analysis on the comparison of the two proposals and you will give the evaluation. Already in the preamble to the document with complex terms and numerous quotations from various agreements, directives, letters and procedures, complicated verbal Abracadabra is involved, which should assure us how almost the signing of such an agreement is the most normal and logical thing in the world. The words "NATO", "European Union", "European Parliament" are present in every order in an effort to be convinced how unalternative the situation is. Here I will break down the first myth imposed by the authors of this deed.You see, there is no way to make the most logical, namely repair of the engines by the manufacturer himself, because it is Russian, and the Council of the European Union in its Decision of 31 July prohibits this. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, 2, 3 and so on it is said that direct or indirect sale, delivery, transfers and so on of arms with Russia is prohibited. There are, however, colleagues, and one point fourth and I will allow myself to quote it verbatim. Here's the solution. [[shows document]] , and point four says: "4." The prohibitions referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be without prejudice to the implementation of contracts and agreements concluded before 1 August 2014, as well as to the provision of spare parts and services (i.e. That is, nothing, colleagues, except political stubbornness and severe russophism should stop us at similar price offers to choose the original rather than the fake. Now is the time to break myth #2: the price and terms of the contract. In the case of engines, the price at first glance seems similar, but only at first glance, identical. The Russian is worth 1 million. And 50,000. EUR, but it includes everything, including transport, which, in the case of Polish, is presented to us as a gesture by Poland. It's myth number 3: transporting the engines at the expense of the Polish side. Do you know, fellow Members, what is the price at which the private Polish company makes repairs to the Polish engines? My guess is 900,000. Euro per engine. Come on now, figure out what the difference is to $1 million. And 23,000. Our price is EUR. So we break the myth of free transportation of these engines, so almost the whole art. 5 of the Agreement is pointless and it is included only to caress the ear.! However, transport, as it turns out, is included in the price and this is normal. It's not clear if they only take us for naives or if someone believes in fairy tales of the kind: "Well, I'll give you one thing, but you pay me first, give me money for it." [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Let's get back to the numbers. It's a huge difference, colleagues, in what we get for supposedly some money. From the manufacturer we would receive capital repair with a resource of up to 500 hours, of which initial 350, and another 150 hours in 50 after engine inspection, and most importantly we receive a repair performed in a licensed factory under control, with the guarantee and responsibility of the main constructor of the plane. In our proposed repairs we receive 350 hours of resource without the right to extend, and so the engine will have to go much earlier to the next repair, respectively the guarantee of the Polish side is 200 hours and the Russian 350! I mean, for the same thing, we'll pay almost double the price. Here it is, colleagues, RSK's letter from September 25th [[shows document]] to the President of the Defence Committee, in which they confirm what I have said, but what is more interesting in this letter is the emphasis by which the Russian party states that it has not provided the Polish licence and updated technical documentation for the implementation of repairs on the engines of the Mig-29 aircraft and the signing of a contract by the Bulgarian side for such repairs will be the basis for the termination of contractual relations in maintenance and operation of the MiG-29 aircraft by the Air Force of Bulgaria. Moreover, the supply of spare parts to the Polish country is explicitly prohibited from being used by third parties and such a contract will be a prerequisite for stopping their supply not only for Bulgaria but also for Poland. Intrigued is the answer to the question: where would the Polish side get such spare parts to fulfill the Bulgarian order? Probably in storage, you'd say a patsy, but nothing like that, guys. Now I'm going to give you some information that few people have. Literally on November 17th, a Polish delegation from the company Polit Electronics, which will supply parts for these repairs, tried to enter into a contract with Moscow for the supply of spare parts, aggregates and systems, but received a clear refusal to do so with a warning that it would go to court. And did you know, colleagues, according to my information, the Polish side was justified by Bulgaria's demanding request?! It is good for the Minister to know that the letter by which the Polish side asked the RSK to sign such a delivery contract at the beginning of November is dated 21 October the day on which you flew for the signing of the Agreement in Poland. And if anyone's been doing their little math, that the Russians, who have been seduced by any possible financial benefits, will compromise with security and their image as a reliable manufacturer, must have misplaced the bill. It is interesting that the Polish side clearly very much, very much does not comply with the European directives that you are quoting on the road and on the road. And where would the parts for our planes come from? Well, most likely from those 7-8 engines Poland bought from Romania or something left here and there from Ukraine. By the way, it is good to know, fellow Members, that Poland is making three attempts to certify its factories on the Russian side in 2009, in 2011 and 2014, but it is invariably refused because of non-compliance with the manufacturer's requirements. Here is a very curious survey from the meeting held in Moscow on 3 July 2013, where on a question of the producer the Polish side admits that the documentation for the implementation of capital reconstruction was purchased by Ukraine in violation of international law and is dated 16 January 1991. Here is this survey, colleagues. [[Shows document.]] Accordingly, the Construction Bureau of the manufacturer makes, you know, permanent repairs based on experience, releases additional ballots that the Poles do not have and therefore do not perform in the repair. It is this illegal and morally outdated documentation that is one of the reasons for refusing certification. Do we realize, then, what will be the quality of our repairs on outdated technology and second-hand spare parts? And here it is good to remind you, and for those of you who do not know, to say that on 13 October 2014. The only thing that my colleague Enchev is talking about is that in Algeria, only the plane is not MiG-29, it is SW-24 MK and it falls on a training flight. The two pilots are dying. The investigation is under way, and where do you think this investigation is going? This is an investigation by the state of Algeria. It turns out that this plane came from Russia in 2005, but it was renovated to extend the resources both to it and to another 50 engines and where do you think? In Poland, in the Warsaw plant, the investigation showed that most of these engines had shovels in the turbine operated longer than the others, i.e. a second hand. The analysis of the engine fragments from the crash plane confirms the suspicions of the effect of the repair were used already used blades of turbines received, note from the Lutsky repair plant in Ukraine. Therefore, at the State level, in 2015, it was decided to carry out a new capital-refundable repair of all engines, limiting, of course, the operation of these aircraft, and the repairing of all engines, thus limiting, of course, and undoubtedly, the operation of these aeroplanes, taking place in Russia. Here it is very interesting now in this Agreement to be told to us whether we want a certificate of origin of any expendable vital part and especially the blades of the turbine? Let's go to myth number four. In an interview in a morning block of BTV you, Minister, you claim that regarding the Agreement with Poland the Russian side has not reacted, but such a reaction was only from RSK MIG, from the company producer that had an economic interest. Now perhaps you are talking about this letter that I have quoted you and which is to the President of the Defence Committee. However, there is another letter from July 9. It's right here. [[shows document]] which you have hidden and it is personal to you, Minister Nenchev, and has been sent diplomatically through the military attaché in Moscow, which has received it officially. Here's this letter. [[Shows the same document.]] It is from the Federal Service for Military and Technical Cooperation of the Russian Federation, expressing, note, concern about the preparation of an intergovernmental agreement between Bulgaria and Poland to carry out capital repairs. And Mr. Nenchev is informed that the Polish side has not produced certification of its production and the quality of this possible repair would not ensure safety in the future operation of the aircraft. Why did you hide this letter, Mr. Nenchev? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So the Federal Service had to publish it so that we, too, could have access to it? By the way, apparently, among such information leaked in the media, now, literally ten days ago, this letter was received to the cabinet of Mr. Chairman of the Defence Commission, yesterday,............................................................................ If you doubt the legitimacy of this Service, I could show you here its status, where it is clearly stated that it is a federal office, a federal authority of the executive power, and the leadership and activities carried out by the President of the Russian Federation. From this more legitimate reaction, say hello! So, good to know... [[The President signaled the expiry of time.]] What? Time? Go on. It is good to know, colleagues, that despite the interstate nature the renovation will take place in a private plant, in a private company supplier of spare parts, and on this occasion it is interesting to show you one last letter of the Polish Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Cheslav Mocek, in which he informs that attempts at a trade agreement on certification for repairs of this plant cannot be affected by government and administrative bodies, including the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland. And according to the legislation in force in Poland, matters relating to the organisation, implementation and production of decisions between entities of commercial law relate to the exclusive competence of the plant and not to the supervisory authorities. It would be curious to see a hypothesis of failure by the plant to implement this contract, as a result of the real danger, after being denied the spare parts, to lose much more orders than we provide them. Then this is interesting in such a way, what would be the instrument of influence of the Polish side on this plant? Here we do not even comment on the persistent rumour that the new Polish government does not approve of this Agreement. There is also something else about the decree, which quoted Mr. Enchev, I believe that according to the provisions of this regulation, without going into details, these planes cannot receive certification from the Institute of Defence. Finally, the myth of the isolated Russians. It is good to know, colleagues, that the Russian corporation is carrying out its modernizations together with two major American corporations. It is unlikely that colleagues from Slovakia are less NATO than we are that Slovaks have modernized their moments in Russia, and, notice, they have also paid for the one-year test of this modernization, which we could make absolutely free use of. Now they have modern, modern aviation, and we have promises of a bright future. Quite in conclusion, it must be clear that with the adoption of this Agreement we are scrapping our aviation, because besides the engine, the plane has a number of other parts, some of them are being repaired only in Russia. It is unclear who is responsible for this repair and maintenance. It must be clear that we practically entrust the fate of our aviation to a private company, with unclear supply channels and quality of spare parts. [[GERB lines.]] It must be clear that the responsibility for this month's ability to have fit engines is the only thing that carries the executive power in your person, Mr. Secretary of Defense. And the so-called breath of air that you quoted, Mr. Yankov, will most likely be the last sip that the drowning man takes before he crashes to the bottom. Thank you. [[Extreme applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u22	- What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u23	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zafirov, I see that you have made a lot of effort, and you have made a lot of effort from the stands, except to get acquainted with the details of the subject and break many myths, as you said. But from the red fog that you are in, there is no way to break these myths. I had the opportunity to meet the commander of the Polish Air Force, even get on one of the modernized Polish planes. [[Noise, lines and laughter from BSP LB.]] Before that, we were also acquainted as a Commission, with colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, who have all the expertise of the Technical, Legal. You know, there were committees that visited the factories. There were professionals who were very well aware of aviation, similar types of machinery, comparative analysis of financial conditions, guarantees and so on. In all indicators, this deal is superior to the MiG bid. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] That's what we're convinced of, but this is about something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u24	Colleagues, please, no lines from place, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u25	Here it is that Bulgaria is about to acquire multi-target fighters and this cannot be Russian, we all know that. Until then, this deal is concluded under the best conditions so that Bulgaria can maintain its capabilities and the Bulgarian air force to fulfil their commitments. I call on all of us not to deceive ourselves, but to support this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u26	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u27	Mr. Ismailov, I was very pleased with that line because you practically didn't say anything about the substance with which you absolutely argued my argument. You didn't say anything at all! By the way, Mr. Ismailov, I was also invited to this trip by the Ministry of Defense to get on the plane and let me in on what fog did you say? The blue mist. But I refused because, again, I say, I have no intention of being an accessory to this iniquity. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]] I suggest that you and Mr. Nenchev be the first to test the plane. When the engines come, get on that plane first to test it, see what quality it's gonna be. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u28	Mr. Enchev, a personal explanation. [[Keep applauding from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, please give us a chance to hear from Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u29	Thank you to Mr. Zafirov. I really had a lapsus. I meant the Suhoy, not MiG 29, which was renovated in the same Polish plant, of the Algerian Air Force. The lapsus may not be an accident, as we also have planes that will need the same repairs in a very short time. Are you going to do it there again? And on this occasion, let me make an important clarification with the European dimensions in the decision of the European Union to impose commercial and economic sanctions on the Russian Federation art. 1, para. 2 states that these sanctions do not apply to urgent repairs and the delivery of spare parts for the operation of the relevant systems, whether in the field of economics or in the field of armed forces, agriculture and so on, so we have every reason to ask for an exception from the commercial and economic sanctions against the Russian Federation for the interests of the Bulgarian air force, of the Bulgarian national defence. But that can only be done by a national responsible government, and yours is not. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u30	For a statement there is Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u31	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the course of the discussions of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, several issues of a broad-spectrum nature are invariably formed, but I, in a much narrower order, unlike those who speak, will shape those who are of particular importance to the Political Party and the ABB Parliamentary Group. First of all, we believe that the following three questions should be answered: What does ratification of this Agreement require, since Bulgaria and Poland have a Framework Common Agreement on Defence Cooperation signed on 31 August 1994? Secondly, the subject matter of this Agreement is entirely technical. Here we ask the question: how competent is the National Assembly to rule on the technical parameters that are enshrined in the Agreement? The third issue is an extremely important one. We point out that the Agreement only seems to represent an international public-law treaty, and in fact it has a private-law nature. According to the general competences of the National Assembly under art. 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly, notice, is not competent and should not ratify trade contracts. After the questions raised, which I believe we can look to today, let us draw some general conclusions from our side. Firstly, we believe that there is a complete asymmetry between the two parties to the Treaty as obligations and responsibilities on them. Secondly, we believe that this Agreement clearly covers a trade contract, that is, it is an international contract of a private legal nature, at least because, if it were an international contract of a public-law nature, it would not be viewed by International Commercial Arbitration in the event of certain disputes. And thirdly, with ratification there is an obvious desire to remove responsibility from the government and transfer responsibility to the National Assembly. For all these reasons and legal circumstances, honourable Members, the ABB Parliamentary Group will not take part in the vote on this ratification. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u32	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Radan Kanev has the floor. He's not here right now. Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u33	Madam President, honourable Members! The facts and only the facts!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u34	You can ask for a time extension, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u35	There is one factor in the public procurements the price of the service before strategic and political, which are no less important. Dear Mr. Nenchev, honourable colleagues, one million and twenty-three thousand euros of repair of one engine in the Polish country, one million and fifty thousand mig engine in Russia.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u36	Mr. Gechev, you can ask for a time extension. You have 20 seconds. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u37	The difference is 2.6%. As a recalculation, ladies and gentlemen, on a base of 200-350 hours, 350-500 hours, Mr Minister, for the record, it is received: repair, providing one flight time to MiG-29, is 5,115 euros per hour for Poles. Three thousand euros an hour is with the original MiG manufacturer. Therefore, I accuse you from now on that you are proposing to Parliament, and you are harming the Bulgarian people by about 3 million. Euros. Where are you?! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Where are you?! What kind of public procurement?! You want from the Bulgarian people... A private company imitating the original manufacturer to pay 3 million more! From now on, things lead to other institutions, the prosecution and so on. Secondly, the question of spare parts. It has already been said that parts are most likely to be used, as the Russian side refuses to deliver such parts. I'm asking you about the other loss, fellow Members. Two or three years from now, we're gonna run out of resources on this renovation. These aeroplanes have a resource up to 2029 " 2030'. I ask you: how many million will the spare parts be worth after that and where will you get them when the parts of the fake Ukrainian and other planes will run out? You will cause losses to the Bulgarian state for millions. The second, which is the most important, you are risking the lives of Bulgarian pilots. There is no practice in the world for F-16 fighters to repair in Somalia or Russian MiG fighters to repair in Bangladesh because the price was 23 cents lower. Finally, gentlemen, three days ago, a NATO member Slovakia signed a new MiG subscription service contract. What comes out now? Minister, there are two or three options: either we continue to serve at the expense of the Bulgarian people, or we are talking about corruption, or we are serving against corruption. Wake up, Minister! The president of France went to Moscow to settle the coalition against terrorists in the Middle East. [[Noise, shout and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u38	Enough of Moscow!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u39	You are offering us a policy that leads to millions of losses, leading to the grounding of Bulgaria's aviation in a few months, for which you will be personally responsible. We will not take your responsibility. Not this Agreement, back to common sense! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u40	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u41	I understand your tactics. Professor Gechev, you are an extremely erudite economist and I would like to ask you a question. I know that the cost of a contract is not just the price. Can you tell me what the customs duties are, the VAT that will be charged on the Russian price? [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u42	Mr. Zafirov, the question is to Mr. Gechev, not to you! Please don't call from the spot! I've been patient enough to listen to you. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u43	Madam President, honourable colleague, thank you for this magnificent question, as this was one of the myths. Let's think ten seconds. If we have to pay a duty, the Ministry of Defense will pay VAT to whom? The government of Somalia? Twenty percent VAT will go to the government of Bulgaria, i.e. from the left pocket, goes to the right pocket. Good morning! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u44	The word for speech is Ilian Todorov from Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u45	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! It is clear that the colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria made most of the arguments. In order not to repeat them, we will have to admit that this government proposal is nothing more than a political decision. What is the statement of this political decision? Of course, to pretend once again to be more Catholic than the Pope; not to sign a treaty with Russia because Russia was in a strained relationship with the US, with the West. Of course, and once again ministers of the Bulgarian government, in this case the Minister of Defence, to worship its masters from the United States. Nothing more! After all, the proposal presented to us today to choose the Polish side is to make at the National Assembly an indulgence of future, not to say disaster, by plane from our combat aviation repaired in Poland, and then all responsibility to be borne by all of you because you have made the wrong decision. Of course, should we say that when it comes to the same price, the Russian side should be chosen, because it is currently about Russian planes. It's clear as day. [[Replying and shouting.]] It's clear as day! You choose the original, not the fake said other colleagues. Fact! After all, I understand your Euro-orientation. In a large part of the Reformation bloc there is resentment, hatred of the Russian state, severe russophobia. Colleagues, you must not turn your personal opinions and feelings into a hostage of our Air Force. With the decision you are proposing today, something really scary can happen that will eventually weigh on your shoulders. Once again, the fact that someone does not like the Russian Federation does not mean to put the lives of Bulgarian pilots at stake. Yes, you may not like them, you may hate them, but don't be more Catholic than the Pope. After all, when you drive a Mercedes, you repair it in Germany. [[Noise, shout and lines on the right.]] Once you have a MiG, you will repair it in Russia at the same price as it was manufactured where it was made. When you say that... [[Radio.]] When you laugh... These days information came out that there is even a Bulgarian company that can repair these MiGs for a much lower price. Why, then, will we repair them in Poland and not repair them in Bulgaria?! Simple! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u46	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u47	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I was a little worried because I was driving a Toyota. I hope I don't have to fix it anytime soon, because it's very expensive to go to Japan. Let's get serious about this. I listen carefully and I very much accept the arguments that part of this Agreement is not the work of Parliament. However, I am interested in why the same colleagues who put forward these very arguments were so predatory and with such good knowledge of the technical and legal details of the Agreement. Colleagues, they're really none of our business. We shouldn't be the most competent in these matters, should be responsible for the minister, and the minister in this case has taken it very well. But why are we voting here, why are we ratifying here? Because this is not about a repair contract, it is about an interstate agreement which responds largely to national interest, which raises issues in terms of the security of the Bulgarian state. It also raises a question of the essence of the state government, as well as the security of the citizens, the issue of the security of public funds, of the money of the Bulgarian citizens and taxpayers. This Agreement has a huge foreign policy importance for Bulgaria, it also has a very big domestic political importance. And these are the parameters on which we in this Chamber, after being put to the discussion before us, should say we should discuss it precisely as an interstate treaty of importance for Bulgaria's national security and the budget of Bulgaria, and not in its technical details, which I notice the left side of the Chamber knows very well. Because for a very long time, apparently, colleagues on the left have been dealing with technical issues related to negotiations with this Russian corporation. Foreign policy, colleagues, this Agreement is extremely important because it creates prerequisites to eliminate at last the 150-year debate on Russophilism and Russophobicism in Bulgaria, to remove this distorted mirror of the debate on the Bulgarian national interest, because this debate has led the Bulgarian foreign policy since before the establishment of the Bulgarian state, from the time of the opposition of the Russian empire against the Bulgarian church autonomy. Twenty years before the Liberation, this debate between russophiles and russophobes is in full effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u48	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u49	We're on the subject. Because the conclusion of an international treaty that takes Bulgaria out of unilateral military strategic dependence on Russian national interest is precisely.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Notice, in the constructions of modern Bulgaria. It is not about Russophiles and russophobics. It's a lot simpler than that. Foreign Western sources are used to comment on the Bulgarian policy with much simpler and more faithful words........ the nationalist party and the Russian party. This is what the international commentators called the people around Stambolov and Radoslavov and the people around Dragan Tsankov, who wrote a letter to the Sultan asking him to occupy Bulgaria because he did not listen to Russia. The letter is to the Sultan, it is very important to note this thing. The signing of a contract under which...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u50	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u51	That's what this has to do with, Mr. Iankov. The signing of a treaty, under which the Bulgarian military aviation does not depend on the Russian geostrategic interest, makes Bulgaria a really functional NATO member, makes the political choice for membership in the North Atlantic Pact a military strategic choice. Because when maintaining an addict, on a non-NATO, aviation side, while maintaining Bulgarian aviation depending on the Pact we are involved in, and in incompatibility with the agreements of the Pact in which we participate, Bulgaria as an external air border of NATO becomes an incomplete member, as a member with only political but not military strategic dimensions. The signing of the treaty with Poland is therefore of great importance to the national security of Bulgaria. This signing is why it's in this room to make this decision. This is why we are also talking about an international treaty, not a trade agreement. If anyone is opposed to such a geostrategic solution, it is better to go out and say it, and not to talk to me about technical details and about the shovel on the turbine. Colleagues, we are not competent on the subject of the turbine shovel, and I hope that we are all busy enough to not be able to all become competent on this issue. This isn't about the turbine shovel, it's about an actual geostrategic choice. I said in the beginning that there is an important internal political dimension. Once again, I note that this is an international treaty, because also to ensure the national security and security of the individual citizen, along with ensuring order, legality and justice, the state must also ensure responsible spending of public money. And here we are dealing with the highly competent missionaries of the Russian side, who are flooding us with their positions on television day and night. And I do not mean the super competent colleagues on the left, whose knowledge of military aviation I admire directly, I mean the so-called heroes of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Soviet Union, who, colleagues, make their living with it. It's a wonderful profession, it must be well paid, and like any other legal profession, it's worthy. Except they're not impartial. And when we spend, and yet, in this extremely difficult international environment, we will spend more and more public money on defence, we should be aware that this money is spent on the basis of a responsible decision of the Bulgarian government, in the case of the responsible position of the Polish government of an ally from NATO, on the other side, and not leak 50% in the pocket of Russian mekerets, which then create their media empires and poison the political life of Bulgaria, as they did 150 years ago and 130 years ago. This is also a very important element of this agreement. It is completely unnecessary to say that the Reformation bloc will support it, but I call on all other colleagues to support it, as it is the Bulgarian national interest, not the shovel on the turbine of the plane. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and the Reformation Bloc.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u52	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kanev, very indicative today is the fact that the representatives of GERB do not take part in the discussion. [[GERB lines: "Wait, wait. "]] Until now. Secondly, in terms of responsibility. The Minister will bear it with his resignation, as we requested on 1 October. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Thirdly, if it was an interstate agreement and a geostrategic choice of the state, this issue could have been resolved in a completely different way, not through this criminal deal that you are trying here to bring to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from BSP LB. Replices from RB.]] It is also criminal, as the minister lied and was found guilty by the law enforcement authorities of the state in lie of being offered a bribe. That's the truth. And one question, Mr. Kanev to you. If you can't answer me, let the minister be so kind to answer. Is it true that the Polish side has asked for and insisted on delaying the agreement in the last few days? For this reason, it was postponed from Wednesday to be seen today on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u54	Second line, Mr. Stanilov. For the third line, Mr. Bozhinov has made a request. You two figure out who's gonna be the one to replicate the third.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u55	I'm not gonna comment on the paddles, be calm, I'm gonna comment on things I understand. I would like to remind my previous colleague Radan Kanev that when you are based on history, you should operate with it objectively, and objective operation is as follows: from his speech it was that all the misfortunes for Bulgaria were caused by Russia, by Russophile and so on and so forth. Mr. Kanev, if you remember Bulgarian history, we in three wars, including the Cold War, have been in an anti-Russian coalition twice and have never been on the side of Russia. For this reason, both in the First and in the Second World Wars, we had a terrible time. We've lost our way, we've lost our territories, we've been bombed, we've given hundreds of thousands of victims, thanks to this russophobic politics. I'm telling you the truth. So, when you operate on history, you shouldn't be acting like a hippo in a glass store. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] The author quoted by you of the Builders of contemporary Bulgaria, whom I personally spoke to, wrote in this book, which you constantly quote and read as a gospel, and it is indeed such in a certain sense of the word, there he wrote that when talking about Russia, about certain actions such as the Liberation War, such as the payment of Bulgarian debts and so on, it should be written on its knees. He wrote it. And the term "nationalist parties" and "Russian parties" is written only by Western journalists and by no one else. This, by reading the springs, should be read properly. The fashion to be russophobic comes from a deep complex that the Bulgarians have always had that we cannot be among the advanced economic and technological West. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is the complex. [[RB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u56	Third line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u57	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Kanev, with these lacrosses for Euro-Atlantic solidarity the result so far for Bulgaria is spilled military industry with the participation of the Bulgarian servantship of a billion and a half a year, which we did in non-Atlantic solidarity, now in the case of Atlantic solidarity we are asked to land the last 15 planes to sell us the old F-16 crates or some other. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Let me tell you something very important, Mr. Kanev and colleagues.. 36 fighters purchased Iraq, BLOC-52, a 5 billion modification. 400 million. The dollar. Why are you talking about Iraq? Because of these 36 fighters half of them are Bulgarian! Two billion dollars we simplified for Iraq, again in Euro-Atlantic solidarity, to get sucked by the big firm overseas, and our 2 billion. The Bulgarians' dollars went to the fighters in Iraq. And now you want to land another ten because of Euro-Atlantic solidarity. Come on, please! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u58	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u59	Madam President, I will try to respond very briefly. I believe that colleagues from GERB will speak, so I do not see how to answer this question? However, it is no wonder that the reformer's representative first spoke about this issue. And it's not because we broadcast the Secretary of Defense...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u60	Then why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u61	...no matter who would be the Secretary of Defense...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u62	Why, then, why?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u63	...including if it were from BSP and offered such a national responsible decision, we would have spoken first in his defence. No doubt about it! Regarding the criminal element of the deal. It is a little risky in the Chamber of the Bulgarian Parliament to make such accusations to senior heads of state of the Polish Republic. I don't think it's a good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u64	It's not the Polish Republic.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u65	Criminal transactions usually have two sides. The interstate treaty in this case is one of the guarantees that this is not about the usual, I regret to say, the usual in securing the Bulgarian defense ability criminal deal. Because examples are tens of them over the years to purchase completely unnecessary weapons, of enormous value to which we are spending today on support and we are wondering where to find money for weapons that are not unnecessary. This was the subject very soon. so I look at Mr. Tsvetanov, at an Advisory Council for National Security, where we all had representatives. No, the Polish side didn't ask for a continuance. I can tell you this because I have very good personal contacts with many colleagues from the Civil Platform in Poland, we keep in constant contact. I notice, however, amazement and continuous questions why many weeks after the treaty is in force for the Polish Republic, it is not in force for the Bulgarian country? And they ask because, as representatives of the government of a Civil Platform, which you signed, and now there is another government, we are actually putting them in an extremely delicate and awkward position, and they are really interested in today's opposition main party in Poland. Professor Stanilov, please don't make me russophobe or author of russophobic these. I said that this division in Bulgaria should end and should rest on the basis of a unified consolidated state position around the Bulgarian national interest. Every time such a position was obtained in Bulgarian history, marginal Russian groups who had no longer exploited even the feelings of the Bulgarian people but exploited their own economic interests. That must be our goal. And lastly, Mr. Gechev, [[the President signals that time has run out]] If you don't want Euro-Atlantic solidarity, go out and say it. After all, that's what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u66	Mr. Velizar Enchev, then to speak Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u67	Madam President, with all due respect to you, I draw your attention to the fact that you have not sanctioned anything unacceptable in this Parliament, Mr. Radan Kanev in his previous speech uses a dictionary of hatred, a dictionary that insults a foreign country, and I quote the Russian mekerettes. [[RB lines.]] For such a thing, if it had been said by an opposition person, if it had been said by me, I would have immediately left this plenary room for at least one plenary session. But when it comes to the ruling coalition and especially to the right side of the House, Madam President, I pay attention to you, with all due respect to you, you do not react.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u68	Mr. Enchev, I am following the debate very carefully and be sure that I am ready to react at any moment when I cross the line of good tone. The term mentioned in your procedure is not personally addressed. And if we remove the transcripts of the Bulgarian National Assembly, you will be convinced that it is traditionally present for one reason or another. Your objection is untenable. [[BSP LB.]] To speak, Mr. Mestan. [[National Representative Radan Kanev wants a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u69	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria has been a formal NATO member since 2004. In 2014 we celebrated the 10th anniversary of this membership. Debates today, and we find it with great bitterness, show that we still have a long way to go to transform our formal membership of the North Atlantic Treaty into real membership, where the member country is not only a consumer, but takes on real solidarity commitments for the common security of the Euro-Atlantic value, not just military, space. Atlantism and Euro-Atlanticism are not lacrosse. Atlantism can't be defined as angina, it's not abstraction either. There are times when the vote manifests the political identity of each of the parties in this Parliament. This bill, this treaty, which is offered to us for ratification, is one of those symbolic moments where it shows who is who in Bulgarian politics. The DPS parliamentary group will confidently support ratification because it is part of our undisputed Euro-Atlantic identity! We make it clear that we are a pro-NATO party. We are a clear Euro-Atlantic party. In our liberal thinking, however, it does not necessarily mean that we should. We are for normal relations with all countries, with a very important agreement that we have also highlighted in our declaration on Wednesday... under strict respect for international law. Dear colleagues, I call on everyone to vote according to the value geostrategic choice Bulgaria made 15 years ago! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u70	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. 54 seconds from the time of your parliamentary group. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! I will lose 3 seconds because first, in the form of a line to Mr. Mestan, who called us all to vote, I will request a roll call vote. Let's all know how everyone voted. Consider this a formal procedural proposal. And on the substance of the statement, Mr. Mestan, by missing your declaration on Wednesday, which was not worthy of Bulgarian, but was worthy of Turkish parliament, I would like to ask you this: with what is the Euro-Atlantic value of Bulgaria that Russian troops will be repaired with Russian planes, but with Polish labour?! Is this the Euro-Atlantic value or that the same planes could be repaired with the same Russian parts, but in Bulgaria, in that factory Mr. Kostov sold?! [[Search to the right. Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u72	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u73	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Mestan, please stop fooling the entire Bulgarian society that Bulgaria is only a consumer in NATO. This is an absolutely false and false thesis! Since we are members of NATO, for 10 years Bulgaria has spent billions of levs on missions abroad, that is, we are not consumers, but we are creators of security! Separately, our NATO membership was worth all the fighting power of the Bulgarian Army, let us not deceive ourselves! Thanks to the fact that the Republic of Turkey wanted us to cut up all our missiles to get into NATO, yes, we went in and cut them up! The idea that Bulgaria is a consumer is false! On the contrary: Bulgaria sacrificed its armed forces and billions of levs. Billions!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u74	Third line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary! Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. Read again, only without prejudice, Wednesday's declaration and you will be convinced that there are undisputed facts in it, and then there is strong support for NATO's position adopted by consensus, with the participation of the Bulgarian Ambassador to NATO. We conclude by calling for tension deescalation and a return to dialogue to prevent the conflict from growing. This is the DSS declaration. I shared with my colleagues that because after this declaration it will be absolutely impossible to appear more headlines, such as in the New York Times, that there are two pro-Russian parties in Bulgaria - BSP and DPS, because this declaration states identity and is very bad news for those who want to see in the DPS pro-Russian, mafia, ethno-corporative party, because we knew that with this declaration this myth would die, we expected our political opponents to resort to the elementary DPS that DPS had reflected the pro-Turkish position. Elementary to make it work! No, the position is frankly NATO. The problem is the absence of a clear position from the other parties in the Bulgarian Parliament! As for the fact that the parts were Russian, I'm sorry, but that I, too, sometimes drink Russian vodka doesn't take away my identity as a Nazi. That's good to know. Thank you for your attention. [[Laughter, excitement, single applause by DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u76	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With interest, I have listened to the long discussion, which, thank God, is coming to an end. I think we've made a demonstration of the Logorea, a lot of talk and not in substance. A lot of ideological definitions, political, historical categorizations were used, and so on, something that we could safely go without. I don't think there's any room for filet division, phobias, etc., in Russian, American or Turkish mekerettes. It's a trade deal, nothing else! I don't know of all the people who took the floor before me on this stand, how many of them had their own business? I'm very interested. Since it is a business and trade deal, there are three, only three important things: price, quality and time. Regarding the price, we have no doubt that it is good, achieved after negotiations and is half the one originally proposed by the Russian side. Consequently, whether it is offered lower or not, we have no information. The BSP colleagues here have some information, but the official facts are that. I think so, Mr. Nenchev. With regard to the price, the choice is correct. As far as quality is concerned, we shouldn't have any concerns either. The company has done repairs like this, the planes are flying. With regard to the deadline, too, it is good enough and short enough to satisfy the deal on our part. These are the things we should be interested in, and nothing else. We shouldn't care who the actual perpetrator is, whose parts are the licenses and so on. I can assure you, and you are sure that if it were Hungarian planes that used the Bulgarian Army, which had to be repaired in the Czech Republic, there would not have been such a long debate. Isn't that right? After all, when these three parameters satisfy the client, in this case Bulgaria, the deal is good and is normal to be supported in the Bulgarian Parliament. Everything else is a return to the past, bridges in some fantasy in the future I call on you to support this Bill by voting to enable as quickly as possible the repair of our Bulgarian military aircraft, which ran into their hours and reached a state of inevitable repair, as a result that they had to guard the Bulgarian airspace from the continuous provocations of Russian aviation over the Black Sea. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Yes, it is! After all, first of all, I repeat, we should be interested in the parameters of the deal and especially the price. It doesn't matter to me whether the plant that is going to make the repairs is Polish, Czech, Hungarian or American. It doesn't matter at all! And it doesn't matter where we can deliver gas, just not at the price Russia is selling us right now. That's it. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u78	Any lines to Mr. Simeonov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Finally, I am speaking from GERB, of course, to respond, if possible, to some of the things in the speeches that have been said here.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u80	It's not certain it's over. There are other deputies.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u81	Personally, I was beginning to think that the debate wasn't really about the Agreement, but about that in the Warsaw Treaty, or are we in NATO? I've got a schedule for you to show you what's going on right now. Look, fellow Members, the chart. [[Shows schedule.]] We've got 16 minus one, we've got 15 MiGs. There are years written here, I don't know if they're visible. Here's the new plane. The MiG-29 has two years between 2016 and 2018 to do something about them flying, to have someone to guard our skies until we start acquiring a new plane. That's the problem we have to solve. There's no other task. Why do you act like this? The Minister justified his decision somewhat. Because, fellow Members, I said we have 15 planes, I'm talking about MiG-ves, we have MiG-21s holding them for that reason and several SUVs. That's what we're trying to protect our airspace with. So far, we've renovated MiG-29 in Russia. The agreement ended in September. Right, the authorized service, literally speaking, is Russia. Yes, but excuse me, I have before me documents that I will not read to you, of course, writes this: a program of the government for stable development of the Republic of Bulgaria. To our coalition. And there it is written, as well as in the Programme, which you yourself voted and adopted two days ago for the development of the defense capabilities of our armed forces, it is written literally: This is the cornerstone. My colleagues are right. It is best to repair our Mercedes in the authorized service of the Mercedes. But what were we doing right now? What's the status right now? Well, we didn't do it there. And you are suffering from disparity, excuse me, colleagues on the left who spoke at both of us doing it at the authorized service in Russia, and, if possible, why not our company is now saying. If our firm is doing it, isn't it in our backyard service? Why shouldn't they make one who's better than us? Right now, if you don't know, MiG-29 planes are being supported by their own forces. Just a few years ago, it was signed by the chief aviation engineer. It's now signed by the Air Force Commander. There's no difference. And we're trying to extend the deadline?! I have asked in the Defence Committee the Commander of our Armed Forces: "Do you know what kind of responsibility you are taking? " - That's what we were doing right now. The Minister is doing one thing and one of the only possible ones, and there is no other alternative, since we cannot, for political reasons and for other reasons, do not want to go in, but if I have to go in there, do it in the authorized service, do it in those who can do it best. In Europe there are three countries that have MiG-29, and they are currently using them - Slovakia, Poland and Bulgaria. Thirty-two planes have Poland, nine planes have Slovakia, and we have 15. Our colleagues, including the commander of the Air Force and other colleagues who failed to go, are in the evil one the director of the Department of Defense and have returned to the Commission and convinced us how good they are, how many times they are better not only than "Avionams" but from us, from our Armed Forces to repair these planes. And they came with their planes to Count Ignatievo, MiG-29, which they support themselves. I don't want to get into what parts they do it with, how they do it. They do it and they do it well. And they fly and their pilots don't worry. And the minister did that. Good for them to be able to agree, however, in short time, one such agreement that they present to us, which is with good parameters. I'm not intentionally getting into this. And prices, and deadlines, and guarantees including from the state. Therefore, under art. 85 of the Constitution The Agreement is here. Because before that, all of you who made before us, I mean GERB, contracts for both the Spartans, and for the drivers, everything was with private companies, or more precisely with commercial companies or companies, as they are called in France and Italy. She wasn't with the state because she didn't enter parliament. It's the state now, a country with a country. This is the simple answer to this question that has been dealt with many times. That can't be right. Bulgaria cannot do it in "Avionams." And those suggestions that he made, including my esteemed second cosmonaut, Mr. Alexander Alexandrov, Associate Professor, Doctor at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, can't because they're in offshore if you don't know. And for this reason alone, we have a law that is voted here, they cannot participate at all. Besides, they can't. The latest repairs they've done here, General. Mihov must know it was by showing cannibalism to other planes and taking parts, but that was years ago. Now they can't do it at all and they don't have a license. But once again, this isn't the authorized service. There are better ones than us, and we've gone to Poland. So, honourable Members, this is not even a serious conversation. In the Defence Committee I took the liberty, and now I will say it.. then I encouraged the Minister of Defence: yes, Mr Minister, you have done well, Poland guarantees, we will do the repairs. Everyone in the hall as Bulgarians hope this will happen to us guarding the sky with our own planes. But that's not the main task. The main task is immediately, as soon as possible, to start performing the second part of this graph, to acquire a new type of multi-purpose fighter. What we're doing with MiG-29 is just this breath we're talking about. Those two years, maybe two and a half years. I'm not optimistic it's gonna happen so fast. I'm not even sure we're gonna be able to do the repairs that fast in a year. But anyway, let's do it in these two years. So we have to do the second with quick steps. Because I'm gonna tell you one more thing, it didn't come up here, and no one's realizing we're renovating planes even in Russia. Let's assume that not in Poland, we went to Russia, continued the minister's agreement, repaired them, came some nice platforms as new. What about the missiles, fellow officers? Did you know that the missiles have expired? Did you know we can't put other missiles on MiG-29? No NATO, no Polish, no American, nothing. We have to get Russian again. What kind of mascara are we getting into? And here I thank Mr. Mestan, he well emphasized Atlantis. If anyone in this room thinks he's in the Warsaw Treaty with one leg, and he's forgotten that 27 years of Warsaw Contract is gone, he's just fooled himself. I took the floor to say these things. I'm trying to sort out the picture in fact and make it clear to everyone and to the few, if there are any who hesitate, to vote and to support the Agreement. And as we voted in the Defence Committee, there were only abstentions, and not a single one against the defence committee, and I hope today will be the same. Because our pilots deserve to be saved, to have planes to train with during that time, until the new type of aircraft arrives, I hope this happens quickly. Let's keep it if you want, with this I will finish, and our national self-esteem of a nation that in the Balkans has at least been a factor in aviation not to lose it by maintaining these planes again, I say, two years, then quickly to acquire a new NATO aircraft that is compatible with our partners because we will fly with them. We will not fly with Russia or with any other country that does not have the communications, there is not this airline, which, by the way, can do so with the second larger contract, if we make one for the modernization of MiG-29 in these two or three years, if necessary. That's the difference. And I ask you to support, as the GERB Parliamentary Group will support the Agreement, support by a majority. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u82	- What's the line? Mr. Zafirov challenged the part of Mr. Radev's statement, who said that no one has voted in the Defence Committee but only abstentions. Mr. Zafirov voted against. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u83	I read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u84	Any lines to Mr. Radev? There are no lines. Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u85	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, please vote on extending the time until this item is completed by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u86	This should have been voted out a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u87	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a legislative part of the plenary until the final adoption of the Ratification. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 178 MPs: 138, against 30, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Now the word for speech is Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I will begin with an agreement that I am not absolutely competent in this subject. I will start from this: why is the National Assembly looking at it? There were a few colleagues who asked before, and that is exactly what Mr. Radev said. It is because of the Constitution that our powers as MPs derive from it. Why should we look at it? The first one, I do not think that any of this House will come out in time and will say if the Agreement was not good: Yes, I voted for and I am responsible. The Bulgarian people ultimately bear the responsibility. Why am I telling you this thing? When it comes to defence, I said it to Mr. Gechev, I will say it to you too, in the economy there are several specific situations for several taxes that we absolutely all pay, but we do not want to use. Defense is exactly the kind of tax we pay for, but we don't want to use. And when we use the defense money, we need to use it as wisely as possible, not only from the point of view of the price, we also need to see the point of view of efficiency, i.e. what it will lead us to. The question arises first: will we do the repair in a licensed and authorized service? It is not the question here whether we will be oriented towards the Warsaw Treaty or NATO, which also had to fall apart after the Warsaw Treaty broke down. The question is whether we will do what is absolutely right to do with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer and then talk about our political orientation. Mr. Radev was very right here. He said: "There is one cornerstone "the modernization of Bulgarian aviation and the purchase of the new target user. This, ladies and gentlemen, will be decided in the future. There is nothing stopping us from today, when we have one aircraft, to repair it and extend its service period precisely within the licensed workshops that are assigned by the manufacturer himself for this thing, and in the coming years to purchase an airplane that corresponds to Atlantic, Euro-Atlantic, Left, Right, any other beliefs. The majority in this room and the government have adopted a strategy, but that does not mean that we automatically reach the gap and push ourselves into it. What would happen if these planes failed in the coming years? Aren't we going to land the aviation again? Will the money be spent as appropriate? There are many factors that we need to consider. And yes, the subject of the contract is the subject of our discussion. The specifics in the contract are exactly the same. Then we can talk about the political topic of who's direction, who's read what as a commentary in certain media and where he's decided to go. First of all, understand, colleagues, we are Bulgarian MPs and we need to follow the Bulgarian interest as ordered by the Constitution. The question is with this vote whether we follow the Bulgarian interest, or we strive to show someone outside that we will follow his interest - that is the issue, that is the political issue. Narrow specialists can say: " If you want a financial opinion, it can still be given to you. It's not about whether it's Russia or whether it's the States or whatever. Why, if we are responding to Euro-Atlantic principles, should we have different types of weapons and dependence on the weapons of one country and not ask ourselves the question: well, is this being done by absolutely all countries that are also Euro-Atlantic? The U.S. imports guns from someone else? No. Understand, colleagues, I will tell you once again: for me I clearly state it from this tribune, the leading is the national interest, this must be the leading one for all of us! We should not strive to be more Euro-Atlantic than we are Bulgarians! First of all, we are Bulgarians, and the people have sent us to this hall so that we can lead it in the best way possible, not twist our words, distort our thinking, so that someone outside can praise us and tell us how beautiful we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u89	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There was a procedural proposal from Mr. Ermenkov for a roll call, by roll call. In accordance with art. 64 of the Rules of Procedure may be made by one tenth of all Members of Parliament or by one Parliamentary Group. It wasn't stated if the proposal was... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Here is the chairman of the group. I understand that he confirms it. Your oral volition is sufficient, Mr. Mikov. I understand that Mr. Ermenkov spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group. In that case, I must put this proposal to the vote without debate. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Ermenkov, who spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria for a roll call vote. Vote 177 MPs: 45 against 104, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, with the following. No 502-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2015. Vote 175 MPs: 133 against 42 abstentions. [[Applause from the right block.]] The motion is accepted. [[Reply by National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] Negative vote on the first vote! At the first vote or will you do it at the second reading? Okay, first negative vote, Mr. Vigenin. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] You've made your point, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] First negative vote, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the excitement in this room. I mean, I didn't support this decision. I voted against it, first because I believe that this is an escape from the responsibility of the Minister of Defence and the Government. After this vote, honourable Members, you should know that the responsibility lies with those who have now supported this Agreement. Secondly, those who supported this Treaty did so with conflicting and essentially false arguments, because it is an important political or foreign policy signal, and others, because it is just a good deal. It's neither, unfortunately. Thirdly, honourable Members, despite the mantras you have been repeating here, you have treated our NATO partners irresponsiblely and our NATO obligations. Firstly, with this deal, you will create a problem in long-term relations in the field of military-industrial cooperation between Poland and Russia. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It wasn't a coincidence that those hesitations were... [[Noise and lines.]] Listen to me! It was no accident that Poland had these fluctuations. She took this decision under pressure and it must be clear that one of the reasons for the interstate treaty was because there had to be a political solution, because the plant that was doing or going to do this repair did not want to violate this relationship because of the deal with Bulgaria. And, fourth, perhaps most importantly, that you are putting the lives of pilots at risk, because this repair of all of you is clear to you that it will not be carried out according to the highest standards that should be respected. I call on you to make this the last decision of this Parliament, which gives away the severe complexes from which the Bulgarian foreign and defence policy is conducted by this government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u91	Second line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the proposal of the Council of Ministers for the signing of such a treaty with one main consideration. The current approach in the field of defence is a piece of paper. He doesn't provide national security for the country. Today we repair two planes, tomorrow we will vote for three tanks, and the next day we will replace the light weapons in the army. This is the insane national security policy of the government. It leads to risks that you will have to take with today's vote and for which you will be responsible. The Minister is incompetent. The Prime Minister has nothing to do with this at all. That's the only reason the government has to resign. [[strong noise, lines and calls from GERB]] because it exposes Bulgaria [[noise and lines]] Without the ability to defend itself in the growing tensions of the Middle East boiler and the Balkan uncertainty. You have no idea what national security and the construction of the army and the armed forces are. [[GERB's line.]] I regret that the Minister with this act reveals nothing but the political and management impotence of the ruling coalition. [[Replications, calls: "Eee!" by GERB, applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u93	Third negative vote. After an argument with Mr. Ermenkov, I accepted his thesis. He made only a line, did not take part in a speech and has the right to make a negative vote. We're listening, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u94	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted negative and voted negative because today is another black Friday in Bulgaria. [[Strong noise, lines, calls from GERB.]] Black Friday not because of mall sales, but black Fridays with sales of national interests! Black Friday with the sale of national security, the security of pilots, the security of Bulgaria, the security that we are in a parliament that serves the state and does not serve certain private interests! And another black Friday, because remember that 96 years ago exactly on November 27th the Neucoup treaty was signed as a result that Bulgaria had taken the wrong country in a war. Today we are trying again to take the wrong side and today what happened to us will happen again. Then again you will be guilty because under the name and under the mask of national security and Euro-Atlantic values you forgot that you are Bulgarians! [[(Applause from BSP LB, noise and lines from GERB, calls:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u95	Mr. Yankov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u96	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose for a second vote the newly voted ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u97	There's no opposite opinion. We vote, fellow Members, the proposal made. Vote 168 MPs: 127 against 41 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u98	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the provision of logistical support for MiG-29 aeroplanes Article 1. Ratiated the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Poland on providing logistical support for MiG-29 aircraft, signed on 22 October 2015 in Warsaw, the Republic of Poland. Article 2. The Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u99	There are no speeches for a second vote. I'm putting it on second reading... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Excuse me? Mr. Zablyanov, a statement at the second vote. You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u100	Dear colleagues, as has become known, it is about secret agreements. [[GERB lines.]] Are you familiar with the texts? [[(Noise and lines, yelling:) yeah! Yes! " GERB.)]] Great! We wish you every success in the vote. It is no coincidence that these votes in this Parliament have led to serious errors and national upheavals. We're in a situation like this today. This isn't about geopolitical choices. This is about the security of the Bulgarian army, which has been neglected for decades. That's the truth. [[GERB lines.]] It's the truth! [[(Calls from GERB: From you! From you!]] In these decades GERB has its participation in the country's governance with two governments. With two governments! There is no way to remove the political responsibility for the state of the army and what you are proposing today and what you want to be supported by the Bulgarian Parliament is contrary to the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. You stand behind this position knowing, I hope, the responsibility you are taking. This group, which you are today, will melt in a few years because you have betrayed the interests of the Bulgarian people. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There will be few of you who will remember this vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u101	- What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] First of all, do you think there are any lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u102	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! By procedure, I propose an end to the debate. [[Applause from GERB, noise and lines from BSP LB.]] We discussed it for two hours and ten minutes. [[Replyings and calls: "Woo!" by BSP LB.]] We've been discussing long, irritable, comprehensive! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u103	Back proposal Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please! Take your seats! [[Lowered noise, lines, calls.]] I've given the floor! [[(Loud noise, from BSP LB chanting: Resignation!]] I gave the word to Mr. Stoilov. [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]] Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor for an offer back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u104	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I intended to speak, but I do not have the opportunity because of Mr. Kirilov's procedural proposal. But in the procedure in which we propose not to accept, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are insisting that Article be dropped. 2 of the Law on ratification, which does not allow the publication of this Agreement. You said it was very profitable, that it was justified, then give everyone the opportunity to be convinced of these statements of yours. If possible, I suggest that, whether you reject or accept Mr. Kirilov's procedure, vote for the dropping of art. 2 of the Law on ratification of the Agreement. Just one more thing to say that wasn't noted today. Are you aware that it is the Polish government that proposes to end the NATO-Russia Co-operation Agreement? Doesn't this signal tell you that you're choosing a solution to repair planes with a country that currently wants to end any relationship between NATO and Russia when they're more needed than ever before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u105	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Vote 167 MPs: 124 against 41, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov made a proposal to drop the article. 2 of the ratification bill. I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal for dropping out of art. 2 of the Law. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we are in second vote mode and every procedure is put to the vote. Vote 164 MPs: 39, against 114, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Show in groups the results. [[Voices: "ABB!" by BSP LB.]] I shall put to the second vote the name of the Law on ratification, together with its article. 1 and 2, the name "Concluding provision" and paragraph alone as they are by importer and were proposed by Mr. Yankov. Vote 171 MPs: 130 against 41 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Show in groups. [[(SIGHS) ABB! and banging on the banks of BSP LB.)]] Negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Big part of the MPs from GERB, DPS and Reformation Bloc leave the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u106	Madam President, honourable Members, as far as you're concerned! I voted negatively mainly because you ratified an Agreement that you want to remain hidden from the Bulgarian people, an Agreement that goes against the interests of the Bulgarian people, and you know it very well, which is why you hid it. That is why you voted not to publish it in the Official Journal. That's why you're leaving now, because it's very easy to wash your hands with the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, when you have to be responsible. It is very easy, gentlemen, when you are ruling, to keep the majority under the reins, but it is very difficult to hear the truth, and you show it with this, except that you are not honest Bulgarians, you are also cowards. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u107	Mr. Enchev, second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u108	A moment ago I was taken away from my word, now I'm going to say what I wanted to say, to ask Minister Nenchev. Minister Nenchev, Minister of Defence, will he stand on this stand, will he guarantee with his ministerial honor, that I do not say a soldier's honour, because he has nothing to do with the army, whether no man in the Ministry of Defence, including him, has taken, or will not take commission from the Polish side for the repair of MiG-29 fighters?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u109	Where is he? The procedure is not complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u110	Mr. Enchev, in a negative vote procedure you need to explain why you voted negatively and not ask questions. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u111	That is my question, and that is my statement. I know Minister Nenchev will not answer because I know what the answer will be. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u112	Third negative vote, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u113	Thank you, Madam President. In front of the empty hall of the Bulgarian Parliament, where just now...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u114	You insult your colleagues, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u115	I do not insult colleagues, they were the only ones who supported the national interest in this House at the moment. I voted against it with a clear understanding that at the moment a betrayal was committed against the Bulgarian national interest. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I voted against it because under the pretext of some geopolitical orientation which, by the way, our country made ten years ago with its membership in NATO, we were told all sorts of absurdities. The truth is that the assigned resource of MiG-29 aircraft, which are armed in the Air Force of Bulgaria, expired in 2007. It was extended by 2000 hours, with the condition that their operation and maintenance should be done under the direction and supervision of the constructor. With today's decision we landed the Bulgarian MiG-29 aircraft on the ground. I do not know how and how we will fulfil the commitments we have, including as NATO allies and members, or this decision was the way to open the Bulgarian sky and to be patrolled and guarded by another type of aircraft. The only good thing about today's vote is that here are the names of the people who, in support of this decision, betrayed the national interest and placed Bulgarian aviation on their knees. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u116	Thank you. Colleagues, ten minutes off. Parliamentary control will begin at 11:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u117	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 20 November to 26 November 2015 A question came in from: - National Representative Sultanka Petrova to Ivaylo Kalfin - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the need to determine the age limit of foster parents, according to the age of the children and in order to protect the best interests of children. A reply should be made in writing by 10 December 2015; - National Representative Sultanka Petrova to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, about the need to change the form and content of the expert decisions of LKK and TELK. The reply should be made in writing by 10 December 2015. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Emil Raynov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan; - Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the MP Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. The word is Mr. Ilian Todorov. After that, an application for a declaration on behalf of the Patriotic Front. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor for procedure.]] Procedure? I've announced the announcement. Then the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u118	Madam President, honourable Members! I will introduce you to a declaration of a political Party "Attack" on the occasion of 96 years since the signing of the Neucos peace treaty. On that day, a monstrous crime was committed against Bulgaria, against justice and humanity 96 years ago. On that day, in 1919, the great Western democracies forced our homeland to sign the humiliating New Year's treaty, dictating the victors over the defeated. Punishment of the great Democrats against the Bulgarian people! A treaty according to which new and hundreds of thousands of our brothers remain under slavery. Millions of Bulgarians and thousands of square kilometers of Bulgarian land are cut off from the borders of Mother Bulgaria. Both now and then no one is interested in either justice or normal human rights for the Bulgarians. For Western democracies the Bulgarian is not human, he is defeated. Thousands of protests, declarations and evidence of injustice are directed to the executioners. It's all for nothing! The West, intoxicated by its victory, self-righteously rubbing hands. The penal action of the New York peace treaty signed in the Paris suburb of Neue symbolizes the revenge of France and the West for the invader who died in Bulgaria. Seven hundred and fourteen years ago, the outlaw de Neui, along with his other accomplices from the fourth so-called Crusade, came to Bulgaria to conquer it, but underestimated the Bulgarian spirit and military power. For their insolence, they are punished and defeated by King Kaloyan. Today their successors again try to subdue us instead of swords use media instead of copies using companies instead of shields using domestic selling politicians. They are no longer a crusade, they are no longer a European Union. However, the goal does not change. Their goal in 1205, 1919 and 2015 was the same.. plundering, destruction and colonization. But again, they underestimate King Kaloyan's heirs. The Bulgarian people, through its blade, will lead to a successful end to the battle for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u119	Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u120	Madam President, honourable Members! On November 27, 1919, Bulgaria was forced to sign a contract that not only the Bulgarians but also the then Western politicians and the Western public called the dictatorship. In the history of Bulgaria, it became known as the New York dictatorship. According to this dictatorship, Bulgaria is forced to lose purely Bulgarian ethnic territories - Macedonia, South Dobrudja, Western Thrace. In order to make the punishment even more harsh to Bulgaria, the so-called Western outskirts are taken from Bulgaria. They were taken from the then kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. These are Strumica, Tsaribrod, Bosilegrad and six villages in Kulsko. The idea of the then peacekeepers is to impose such a system of peace treaties with which not only to humiliate the defeated but also to make them powerless in the coming decades to defend their interests. Thus Germany was cut, so Hungary was cut, so Bulgaria was cut. Even then, however, then US President Wilson said that these peace treaties in Paris would lead to a new world war. And that's how it happens. It was Versailles who gave birth to Hitler in Germany; Trianon gave birth to Hungarian rematchism; it was Neui who brought Bulgaria into World War II. Let's ask ourselves the question: what was Bulgaria doing in this Second World War, since after 9 September 1944 this war was called a conquest, imperialist and all sorts of other Marxist-Lenin clichés? Bulgaria entered this war not to conquer foreign territories. Bulgaria entered World War I to free a million and a half Bulgarians in Macedonia to free South Dobrudja, which was occupied by Romania in 1913 and to fight for the rights of those Bulgarians who were in the territory of then Greece. This was Bulgaria's motive to enter this war. And it was for this just cause that Bulgaria was punished. The peacemakers then thought they would destroy the Bulgarian spirit, but it turned out that this could not be done. After 1944, the word "patriotism" and "nationalism" was banned. The first victims of the then totalitarian regime were the Bulgarian nationalists who were persecuted because they were a resistance against the crumbling utopia of proletarian internationalism. Unfortunately, however, after November 10th, when normal Bulgarian patriots believed that democracy also meant patriotism, we heard the same refrain. Then some overseas strategists called nationalism nationalism, the last trench of communism. And we see a new proletarian internationalism being passed for 25 years, but this time called cosmopolitism, globalisation, liberalisation, which aims to destroy the national spirit of the peoples, to make them less resistant to foreign external global influence. But it's not working this time either. It doesn't work because the nations in Europe are historical. The nations have lived here for nearly 2,000 years, building their culture, their own selves, their own tradition, having their own value Christian system. The last 25 years, and those 45 before them, the word "Bulgarian" is forgotten. Today, in the years of the so-called "democracy" the last 25 years, we see that Bulgarian governments, whether left or right, do not look for protection of the interests of those Bulgarian communities, which, under this particular dictatorship in Neuilly 96 years ago, remained under foreign power. After this unfortunate date, the Bulgarians in then Serbia or Yugoslavia, in then the Kingdom of Greece, and then Romania were subjected to genocide. A genocide to which some parliamentary parties' cries for the revival process are simply ridiculous. It was forbidden to call yourself a Bulgarian in Macedonia, in Thrace and in Dobrudja. The Bulgarian language was persecuted, Bulgarian teachers and priests were shot, exiled to the islands or forced to flee to Bulgaria. We cannot turn a blind eye to what continues to happen in those territories inhabited to this day with a Bulgarian population that are still left at the mercy of fate. And if Bulgarian governments after 1919 until 1944 had a very clear policy for revision of this injustice, for protection of the rights of Bulgarian minorities, I cannot explain why after 10 November 1989 the Bulgarian governments removed this topic from the agenda. Come on, for the past 45 years, there was an excuse. We weren't given from Moscow. Who can forbid a sovereign state, such as Bulgaria should be today, to defend its compatriots? Is there greater good and greater interest than being a Bulgarian and protecting those Bulgarians who are in trouble? We have come to this point for years to explain to some unhabered officials from various Bulgarian departments that the population in Macedonia is Bulgarian, to make comparisons with the Bulgarian revival, so that a Bulgarian from Macedonia or the Western suburbs, or if you want even from Moldova and Ukraine, get a certificate of Bulgarian origin and receive Bulgarian citizenship, or come to study in Bulgaria. This, honourable Members, is a disgrace to modern Bulgaria! This is a disgrace to every Bulgarian government, which is pretended not to see and forget about the interests of those Bulgarians and their rights, which, under the same Neon dictatorship, have remained outside Bulgaria, have been crushed and terrorized for 96 years. We have our moral obligation. What country is Bulgaria that does not care for both its countrymen abroad and those Bulgarians in Bulgaria who need national support? This date, November 27, should not be a reason for any rematch or for any tearful feelings. There's no room for unnecessary emotions. This date should remind us that, like other European peoples, like the Germans, like the Hungarians and we Bulgarians should have a national policy. And so, as Germany took all of its compatriots from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, Romania, Transylvania and the former Soviet Union, giving them citizenship and the opportunity to live in their free country, as the Hungarians did, and doing so to this day, we must also do so. Because the one who forgets that Bulgaria is not only the yellow pavement of Sofia, is not only the Black Sea and winter resorts - Bulgaria is where even a Bulgarian lives, who is called such and proudly in his heart bears the Bulgarian name. Despite all attempts to neglect this problem every year, for 25 years now, awake Bulgarian young people and patriots mark this date with torches. There will be no exception this year either. Tonight there will be again the Bulgarian March, which will declare itself against the oblivion imposed artificially on the Bulgarian memory, Bulgarian history and Bulgarian destiny unhappy, unfortunately, of those Bulgarians who, under this New York Treaty, remained outside the bounds of free Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Procedure, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u122	Madam President, on behalf of BSP Parliamentary Group Left Bulgaria, I strongly object to the way you organise and conduct parliamentary control. Today's parliamentary control contains eight questions and you have postponed twenty questions to BSP colleagues today. Please answer me on the basis of what you write in the Parliament's Rules of Procedure: Because in the Rules it is very clearly written, there is also the word of a question is answered within a 7-day period, the question is answered within a 14-day period, with one possibility of extending another seven days. We have questions that have long since expired on these deadlines. The world is shaking, in the state problems, budget is being watched, the Prime Minister and half of the Council of Ministers are riding a roller coaster back and forth to the other side of the world. This is what happens whenever GERB manages the Constitution and the obligation of the Council of Ministers to appear in parliament, as we are a parliamentary republic. Please tell us when you will take your role as parliamentary President and explain to these people that because of the nature of the institutions in Bulgaria and because we are a parliamentary republic, they are obliged to appear under parliamentary control, not to violate the rules that are the law of the country, that is, not to break the laws and to answer the questions put by the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u123	Dear Mrs. Ninova, it is not the President of the National Assembly that postpones the answers, but the ministers themselves, as you said at the end of one of your sentences, have the opportunity, according to the rules of our Rules, to make a request and postpone the questions by seven days. Why are there ministers today who have declared absence for respectable reasons? Because at this moment, with the starting hour 11:00, a meeting of the Council of Ministers is held. I have taken part in my role as President of the National Assembly in a republic with parliamentary rule so as not to fully delay today's parliamentary control, and ministers and deputy prime ministers, who do not have a specific commitment in today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, are here in the performance of their duties to appear before the MPs and to answer their questions and questions. The word for declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has Mr. Mikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u124	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Ten days ago, the ruling majority adopted next year's budget at first reading. With the update of the budget for this year, the government has acknowledged that billions of loans do not give economic and social development, admitted bankruptcy of the led policy. The draft budget was assessed by trade unions and police and law enforcement officers and cultural actors and scientific circles, and last but not least by the poor in Bulgaria, by the people of physical and intellectual labor, as an antisocial budget, as a budget without direction. This budget only deepens Bulgaria's problems, and they are many and become even more. Last week, I spoke about poverty, whose causes and consequences do not find a solution in the budget, because it clearly does not matter to the government today. Today I am going to talk about a related problem, which is equally important and important, the danger of prematurely dropping children from education, growing illiteracy and social exclusion. This year, on 15 September over 13 thousand children did not welcome their first day of school in Bulgaria because they went abroad. A few more tens of thousands of students will not continue their primary and secondary education for the same reasons because in Bulgaria there is no perspective and will seek their real chance outside Bulgaria. Today, 20% of preschool and school children do not go to school at all. These aren't the 20% that drop out from the I to the VIIIth grade, they're a plus. At the moment, the share of early children and young people left the educational system in Bulgaria is close to 12.9%, otherwise it is much more. And while on average there is a sustainable trend for the European Union to reduce this indicator, Bulgaria after 2011 reports a constant deterioration. Moreover, a number of countries that are similar to our socio-economic development, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Croatia, have consistently maintained dropout levels of about 5%. We have 13%, dear Euro-Atlantics! Reducing the share of dropouts from school is one of the main indicators of the Europe 2020 Strategy. It should fall to 10% in total for the entire European Union by 2020. In Bulgaria, the trend is reversed. Our national goal is to include 11% of the people in the age group, notice, from 18 to 24 years. Because from now on the government recognises its inability and the lack of will to achieve European standards. The government's policy is clear, since the budget contains a clear trend for a sustainable reduction of education funds by 0.1% per year, and at the same time a law has been adopted, with which money has also been allocated to private schools that form a commercial profit. And if someone's comparison of these figures seems petty, I mean that even if Bulgaria reaches the levels of the 2020 Strategy, which I highly doubt in this management, this means that in order to provide comfort for themselves and the people around them, the government will sacrifice the chances for development of at least 6 000 Bulgarian children and will reduce the annual budget for education by about 8 500 000 BGN. Annually. By share of gross domestic product allocated to education, we are in one of the last places in Europe. But no one there is looking for Euro-Atlantic criteria, as in the repairs of airplanes. This makes it impossible for educational institutions to invest in a material base, ancillary services and staff needed for active work with children and their parents. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of dropping out of education is first of all social and shows the reluctance and inability of the government and the ruling majority, the inability of the state to ensure the participation of children in the educational process, at least until the end of the compulsory age under the Constitution. Early dropout from education and training is among the main prerequisites for subsequent unemployment and social exclusion. Because studies are clear.. children from ethnic groups, children of the unemployed, children from poor families will also be socially excluded. And our country and our government are not interested in this issue, as they are interested in highways and Chinese visits. The state should focus its efforts on a much more substantial reduction in the proportion of early departures, because this in view will also limit the poverty passed on through generations on the one hand. On the other hand, to provide suitable qualifications for these young people in line with the modern labour market. This is not seen in this budget, nor is it stated by the government as a direction and intention to deal with this difficult national problem. Statistics show that the most threatened by dropping out in a primary and secondary stage of general education are children from ethnic minorities and poor families without permanent work and income. This is important for our society torn apart by inequalities. This is, in fact, also a matter of national security, especially when religious radicalisation becomes an ideology of modern terrorism. That is why BSP left Bulgaria cannot accept that the draft budget stimulates the worsening trend for dropout of students in secondary school. This budget has shown that the ruling, government and majority do not understand that social polarisation and uncontrolled poverty will ultimately lead to the destruction of the fabric of society and to the extinction of statehood as we see it happening every day in not so far away from us in geographical terms. The issue, at last, also affects the balanced economic and demographic development of the state. Because the difference between the Northwest and the Southwest is murderous. This is another proof that the lack of employment opportunities and mass poverty lead to the permanent exclusion of entire communities, of whole areas of participation in the country's development. This proves that the lack of policy in the 2016 budget on the issue of early leaving the education system will condemn failure and any attempt to overcome poverty and regional differences. The poor regions will become poor, the rich few cities will accumulate more and more resources, but they will also become more expensive and difficult to live. Are people interested in this? We from BSP left Bulgaria say hard. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, they continue daily, hourly and every minute to inform us that this was the possible budget, without any alternatives. Even if he is accepted in this antisocial form, people have the right to know that there is an alternative. There was an alternative throughout the year, but government and government were deaf and dumb to her. When months ago we said the alternative is there and we proposed our Law on People's Education, you of the majority in charge, said to us: "Alternative may be there, it may be in the interests of the people, but it is not beneficial for us and the circles close to us, NGOs and private schools, and you did not accept it. You took money from state and municipal schools and gave it to commercial companies. So you put the future of the Bulgarian nation, of the Bulgarian economy, of the whole country to hard tests. You need to stop looking at education as a distinct and appetizing public resource that is distributed annually. Education is, above all, a means of preservation, development and reproduction of the Bulgarian people. Because today's budget is far from unalternative. At the reduction of the funds for education you are proposing, our alternative is clear: providing sufficient funds for the education system of at least 4% of gross domestic product to go to state, municipal schools, universities, taking into account the constitutional text guaranteeing the education of all Bulgarian citizens. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Because this problem is not only the problem of BSP left Bulgaria, it is a problem above all of the future of Bulgaria! The one who doesn't see it is part of an accomplice to destroying this future. This is what today's government of Bulgaria does. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. The parliamentary groups of GERB, DPS, RB and PF are absent from the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u125	First will ask his question in today's control Mr. Slavi Binev about the policy of optimization of working time to Ivaylo Kalfin On behalf of a group, there is a declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u126	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! Dear colleagues! Another flow of political vitality also requires a political analysis, perhaps both by feathers and by priorities. Let's really start with education. A new Law on pre-school and school education, placing key points in it such as dual education, learning through practice, the only possible and guaranteeing quality of education, new criteria for evaluation of educational institutions, again investment in quality of education. I consider this to be a fundamental foundation in development and further investment in education as a whole, in higher education and in drafting a new Higher Education Act. Total lie, 150 million. lv. it's in the new education budget. One hundred and fifty million! I recall: private schools are also part of the education system of the state and for no reason have we the right to deprive students in private schools of aid for education. If anyone thinks that in today's modern 21st century, too bad! Infrastructure. Infrastructure should not be seen as just some self-target construction of highways, although three new ones were built in GERB's government, we finish another but as an investment in the economy as well. Let's just look at areas where there's no infrastructure. I'll set out a town like Targovishte. Sixteen years of management of BSP - lack not only on its way to the district and to the district city, but also lack of roads in the city itself! Let's look just one hour away in Varna, what's the difference?! Only a stable economy can guarantee investment in the state, only a stable economy can guarantee a reduction in unemployment, only a stable economy can guarantee young people to stay in Bulgaria. If young people who left the country and during a triple coalition were encouraged to go into emigration, if they did not agree with the political status quo, if this is what you call demographic policy, it is not for us.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u127	And now they're leaving.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u128	And if anyone still thinks that building infrastructure, quality infrastructure, is just populism, it's cruelly false! Social policy is the easiest way to push populist politics, but not if you are a responsible political entity that is guided by the interests of citizens. The easiest thing you can do is to make uncontrolled social payments; the easiest thing you can do is to put the state in deficit, by the way, done by the left government of BSP; to put the country in debt crisis like the model of one of our southern neighbours, but not if you are responsible right political entity! Not if you're ready to work, though under public pressure, but to make the right decisions! Does anyone else think infrastructure is a self-target?! Does anyone else think she's a populist?! Very strange euroscepticism and very strange cues I feel, very strange for a party whose former leader is the current Party of European Socialists! A very strange foreign policy course for a party that plays with the nostalgia of the people, for a party that calls for ignoring the decisions taken by international organisations in which the country participates. The small settlements are an extremely important component of the state! Politically, however, they are those in which a small party must have the strongest positions. The recent elections showed that this is exactly what did not happen and the BSP failed in the small settlements where social policy should be the most working and where people should recognise it the most. [[Relations from the National Representative Dora Yankova.]] A few weeks ago there was a mockery and a fling with regard to young people, but this did not prevent a party from hiding behind a young man quite recently, did not stop! What will the young BSP say about this when students were beaten in the streets and squares?! What will young people in BSP say about these three and a half billion that have been paid for KTB?! Yes, they could go for education, infrastructure, social spending, the economy of the state. No, they were paid because a government was irresponsible to its obligations and to its programme and spent it through the right government, which was obliged to pay them in the most unreasonable and foolish way. Dear colleagues, longevity is not always a sign of a positive example! A hundred years BSP is an example of a party and 100 years is an example of political failures! Thank you. [[Relations from the National Representative Dora Yankova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u129	We start with control. Mr. Binev, we are listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! The Kingdom of Sweden recently decided to introduce a 6-hour working day in order to achieve a better balance between the professional life and the personal life of employees. It is believed that the new breed will stimulate workers to work far more hard and fulfill their work commitments in a much shorter time. I believe that this idea should also be put on the agenda in our country. The optimization of working time is not only an important social measure, but also an instrument for removing the severe demographic crisis. Bulgarian citizens will have the opportunity to spend more time for their family and especially for their children. In my opinion, it would be useful to do a detailed analysis of the relationship and the interdependence between the quality of work and working time in Bulgaria. The results of this analysis will answer the question of whether changes should be made in the field of working time and whether they will lead to an increase in productivity and an increase in profit. In this regard, please provide the measures identified by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to optimize working time and quality of work in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u131	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Binev! Thank you for your question, because the topic related to working hours relates not only to the quality of work, but also to many other indicators, including income from work, including work efficiency. What is the current situation in Bulgaria? Bulgaria complies with a number of international arrangements defining the duration of the working day as a maximum duration. In Bulgaria, normal working hours are up to eight hours a day, and in a certain order they may be increased. For certain categories of workers and employees, a reduced working time has been established six or seven hours a day, taking into account the fact that they carry out the work under specific working conditions. This is the maximum working day duration. Within this maximum working day time, there is the possibility that through collective bargaining for certain industries or certain types of work may be negotiated on a short working day. The regulatory reduction in the ceiling of maximum working hours could only be discussed if we have guarantees that it will not affect the reduction of income. Because the problem in Bulgaria is related to the income that people receive from work. And I maintain a permanent position that incomes from labor in Bulgaria should be increased. At the same time, the legislation, including with changes adopted this year by the National Assembly, gives extremely many opportunities for flexibility in working hours and combining, for example, family obligations with employment obligations and careers. Changing the Labour Code made it possible for working hours to be extremely flexible. Within 40 hours a week, the employer negotiates mandatory hours at which the worker has to be at work and the rest of the working time he could determine and alone within certain limits, which means in practice that he could come early and leave work, or some days a week, for example, part of the working day not being at work, catching up with other days a week. Of course, this must be agreed with the employer because of the different types of proceedings. The same provisions with Parliament's decision of this year are also decided for the public administration, for the public services, too. Secondly, you know that all mothers, regardless of the number of children, benefit from paid annual leave up to two years, up to a total of three years, and when returning to work after taking parental leave, workers can negotiate with the employer other working conditions, e.g. cancellation or avoidance of shifts, extended working hours and so on. Next, the Labour Code allows home and remote work. This is a modern approach that is used in many countries. I must tell you that it applies not only to people with disabilities, but also to employees, including in the public administration. I do it myself, for example, when someone has to work on a report, much better do it from home at some point than sit in the office with four people around who talk on phones. So this is also allowed by the Labour Code with the agreement of the employer, the worker can work from home. Of course, it is not only working time that gives more conditions for combining professional and personal life. We are also working on the topic of vouchers, raising children, helping, especially for working parents who are raising young children. Further changes are yet to be made in this regard. That I could answer your question. Of course, if he needs more details, I'm available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Binev, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues, it is indeed so, especially labour law gives opportunities to be applied flexibly. And here it is really important that the leaders manage to do it properly. But we are talking about a clear legal framework, which is very difficult mostly in state-owned companies where civil servants are appointed, because there is a point where, if the head is infinitely flexible, it is very likely that the head himself will be punished. For this reason, the leaders themselves prefer to follow the demagogy, to have people there no matter what they do, because there are employees who need to be paid not to go to the robe because they do more outrageous things than to do some work. I can give many examples, but it will be a very long conversation and will not contain a question. Indeed, there are people who need to be paid not to go to work because they confuse things in many situations, but we are talking about people who should be oriented towards the end result. It is very important that the final result does not depend on time measurement or anything else in the legal framework. I think this can be extremely revolutionary and can give very good results. Even during socialism, and in the army, those who have served and know that many times have happened to do some work on a chord and to know that if done, they will get leave or not depend on the time you do, etc. Even in the time of socialism, that was it. So very likely these primos would be, and I think they should be used to the ultimate orientation, to the final of the task. I mean, one particular task, because there are people who I'm sure if they know that a certain job [[the President signals that time has run out]] they could do it at a certain time interval and reduce it, they would do it more qualitatively and more effectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u135	Please state a question if you have one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u137	Thank you. Would you like to respond to the substance of the comment?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u138	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one clarification. Mr. Binev, there is an opportunity. The employer may enter into a contract with the worker to carry out a particular activity and not for full-time. So in labour law and practice there is an opportunity, including the payment, to be linked to the result of the work and the work done. So if I am afraid and talk to a lot of employers enough, they don't know the law and are surprised at times that there are such opportunities, and with enough good use of legal arrangements, I think that actually work could be much more effective and with the possibility of people combining work, for example, with parental obligations, which is mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u139	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Would you like to take an attitude towards the answer, Mr. Binev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u140	This is just going to be an extra piece of paper. I am sure that we think in a similar way with Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and that there is largely a reduction in working hours, because there are professions that require the presence of a certain employee in their workplace, especially in the workshop there is no way to miss one person from their workplace. However, an official reduction in working hours could solve a great deal of the problem of unemployment. Because people's work isn't just about taking money so they can support themselves. Many people actually need a social environment because they become nihilists, people who do not believe in the future. I think it would be extremely important and extremely fruitful if we really found a way, especially for the professions for which people are required, to reduce their working hours, of course, on the basis of an increase in quality and concentration that they will have in this working time. In this way, I think that problems with unemployment can be solved, which clearly exceeds the official parameters that are quoted in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. Here comes a second question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kalfin. He is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and is about providing packages of basic foods for 255 thousand socially weak families. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My question relates to how will the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy be able to absorb for 2015 the funds provided by the European funds to support the socially weak? A little bit of history, this programme, which was financed by the European Union, was well implemented, and I think it was also effective in the first programming period when the State Fund was carrying out this activity. In the new programming period this is carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy respectively. Don't understand that I have a claim to who's running the program. The desire is rather to fulfill it. For 2014, the programme did not start, although my expertise was that it could be implemented and for 2015 the funds to be used amounted to 24 million. lv. for food and 6 million. lv. for a warm lunch. Of course, it is a price with value added tax. As is understood by press publications, especially in the last few weeks, and yesterday there was a similar publication, at the end of the year the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is unable to provide packages of products for these 255 thousand socially weak families. I suppose you've done an analysis of what caused this thing to happen. My question is related to this: what are the reasons for not realising the programme for the two years 2014 and 2015? And accordingly, your analysis and forecast will be provided within what deadlines for socially weak packages for 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, please respond. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, this programme was really implemented by the Fund of Education and Social Assistance, and this is by decision of the European Commission, which is the donor of this Programme. Not only for Bulgaria, throughout Europe it is considered that food for the poorest is a social policy and is not as connected with the production part, for example, as the logic is to be in the Fund of Agriculture. The decision was taken by the European Commission. All over Europe, systems are being recalibrated, and they are within the scope of social policies. The food operational programme was approved on 5 December 2014 nearly a year ago. There was no way for 2014, given that the European Commission then approved the use of this Programme, any procedure could be initiated. Once approved in December 2014, we started activities immediately. In mid-March, on 16 March 2015, one of the parts of this operation, providing a warm lunch, was launched. Currently there are signed contracts with 86 municipalities for 111 public dining rooms. They fed people only during the winter. They now provide hot food throughout the year. Here we are talking about about 10,000 people who receive hot food under this Programme. Before the delivery of the second component of food packages was to begin, there was also a public procedure for the so-called partner organisation. It was held. The partner organization is the same one that was in the Fund of the Bulgarian Red Cross. This is the organization that has the commitment from certain points in the country to move and distribute the aid packages. This thing was based on a procedure for public procurement mechanisms. The contract with the BCC was concluded on 7 July 2016. In the meantime, on 9 June 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/994 [2] [[I purposely say the dates to see that no time has been wasted, before which consultations have been made on food composition, food types, the range has been enriched, 21 food products will already be provided, a large part of them could be produced in Bulgaria, and not only raw materials, but including processed products]] The contract for the supply of food was announced supposed in 2015, and on 30 September the appointed committee prepared a protocol. The ranking of the tenders took place on 6 October 2015 for the twenty-one products. A number of complaints were then submitted to the Commission for Protection of Competition. Some of them dropped out. To a company which, at 12 of the twenty-one positions, appealed the procedure with the same motive, the Commission for Protection of Competition recognised the claim. I don't want to go into details, but I'll tell you that the Ministry is going to file a case with the Supreme Administrative Court because obviously this firm's proposal on these 12 products does not meet the conditions. Of the other products, which are nine, contracts have already been concluded to purchase with four companies - flour, spaghetti, compote and lentils. From the 16th ten days ago began their delivery in the warehouses of the Bulgarian Red Cross in the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For three more products by next week, the contracts will be concluded. We're waiting for two more products, Mr. Chairman, so let me finish with the facts, too, within ten days. That's where she dropped the appeal at the KPC. I hope it doesn't go on after that. So for these nine products, the delivery has already started at the warehouses of BHC and as soon as they are delivered, will begin organizing their packaging and hauling to the people who need to receive them. For the rest, unfortunately for me, the Public Procurement Act does not give a quick runway for such public procurement. We have to wait anyway. I hope that the Supreme Administrative Court will as quickly as possible organise the procedure for examining the decision. For the heavy products I mentioned, they are already signed and will be delivered. These are packages of at least 15 kg of food that people will be able to get in the near future. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since we are talking about a delay in the Programme, which you mentioned, I must tell you that of the 28 member states of the European Union, under this Programme Bulgaria is currently fifth in implementation. There are four ahead of us and 23 behind us on the organization and implementation of this Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u145	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. I have left you purposefully, despite the time, because it really is an important issue for a large part of the people. Mrs. Bachvarova, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u146	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm not pleased with your answer because I didn't hear the reasons for the delay in the procurement, and the reasons are probably in the administration, in its conduct and its organisation. You correctly said that on 9 June the order was announced, but offers were given until 3 August. The administration two months and a few days wonders what to do before coming up with a decision, provided that you are aware that there will be an appeal. There's always been an appeal to these procedures. Of 21 products 12 will not be delivered. Here for me, the question to which you may have an answer is: how will it be delivered, provided that the contract is until 31 December 2015. supplied products to be delivered? You have to tell me technically how you see the execution of the order and what happens from here on out. For me, the main problem is the administration's organisation of public procurement. There's a lot of weird stuff in this order. You're talking about price limits. Where in Bulgaria is there a limit price? How did you set the price limit? How do prices become dumped? The first firm quits, the second one goes with the high price, or do you make any choice there? This is simply unacceptable from any point of view. Third question I have: how will you control the quality of products that are ready? Because you must label and under Directive 1169 of 2011 you must have a composition of input and not of a finished product! This is extremely important, because if there is a breach of the rules here, both in the case of labelling and in the case of control, you are in practice fully responsible and the funds will not be used. And there is no laboratory for ready product anywhere in Bulgaria, as I see the main focus is on [[the President signals that time has run out]] to complete the order. But against what and what sanctions? Perhaps those in charge of the order should also answer these questions. I'm sorry to ask them to you. Probably others are the ones who should and can give you a competent answer, but these are the facts and the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u147	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Let it be within time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Mrs. Bachvarova's questions. I strongly disagree with the fact that the administration did not work quickly. Again, I tell you that from 28 countries we are fifth in speed, and this is under the cumbersome procedures of Bulgaria. Yeah, early August, we ran out of orders. I'll check exactly and tell you, there were an awful lot of applicants.. 42 candidates in 21 products! [[Reply from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.]] That's not true, 21 products are for the first time. There were an awful lot of scandals in the Fund for Agriculture and Food Quality, and in the manner of conducting orders that were publicly known, and supplies of damaged products, we tried to avoid these things. I hope we did. This is the first time we've made a similar order at the Social Assistance Agency. There the documents were looked at very carefully and worked very carefully. You're saying it wasn't under the rules of public procurement. Here, there were appeals.. there remained a company that appealed on 12 products, which won the products in the Fund..................................................................................... and is associated with some of the scandals there. It's just that we can't help but appeal to the CPC's ruling in the Supreme Administrative Court. The procedures are done in the best possible way and most secure, because we are aware of the responsibility we bear. In one product, the first firm quit. By the way, the second and third had provided the same price. At the direction of the Public Procurement Agency, lots of people are drawn to deliver it. And the price difference is not great. There are no other offers, fake offers, etcetera. The organization has created it as well as we can. The delivery of the goods is now going to the warehouses of the Bulgarian Red Cross. I assure you that we will do all the work we are required of us, including labelling, repackaging and so on, to deliver the goods to the people. Bulgarian citizens who receive similar aid will receive more aid as products and volume than they received under previous programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u149	Thank you, Minister Kalfin. With this, the questions to you today are exhausted. We wish you all the best in the day. We continue with two questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev. The first one is from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev on optimization of the structure of higher education in Bulgaria. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva, to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u150	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister! The main reason to address this current issue to you is the gap between the waged reduction in higher education funds in the draft State Budget Act for 2016 and your commitment to optimize the higher education system recorded as a basic measure in the Budget Project. The use of "optimization" is usually associated with the best. The practice in Bulgaria, however, changed the understanding of optimization, reducing it to a decrease in numbers and closure. In the Higher Education Strategy, it is written that a strong re-evaluation of the philosophy of self-target savings in higher education must be made. The amendments adopted yesterday at first reading in the Law on Higher Education and the State Budget Project for next year, however, do not give grounds for optimism. Higher education funds are expected to be reduced by 2 million. Eight hundred and forty-eight It is extremely worrying that, with these low levels of higher education of 0.5% of gross domestic product, the implementation of the Programme for the consolidation of higher public schools will have to be financed. This funding is far from European and global practice and that is known by both teachers and students in Bulgarian universities. This Programme will be developed on your proposal, that is, an act of political will, not a result of legal actions and criteria as the current Law on Higher Education regulates. As a portfolio minister, you must implement the Higher Education Strategy, Bulgaria must continue to work towards achieving one of the specific objectives in the Strategy: improving access to education and increasing graduates to a level of 36% by 2020. Rarely, on behalf of the government, we can hear this figure and you must really fight for what we have also proposed for 4% of gross domestic product, because what we have just heard from the parliamentary platform for an increase in education funds is not the least about higher education and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Please answer: how and with what criteria will the structure of higher education be optimized in Bulgaria and what national objectives will be achieved with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, dear Mr. Mirchev! Your question is very adequate. He weighs on me as well as on his answer, even more so. I would like to start from where I should end, that we need urgently, which does not mean rushing, from a new Law on Higher Education, our Bulgarian law. Whatever strategy it is, it must be respected, but there is no perfect strategy and there is no perfect law, unless we understand the Strategy as an unshakable and absolute document, which even the Constitution is not. It is too general and is interpreted differently. She's interpretive. We know that there has been a release since 1991, 1992, and so far. An error has occurred over two and a half decades with extensive development, with a massisation of higher education in one way that is unacceptable. We have 51.. 52 higher education institutions, those who have become seniors from higher colleges, because there are other colleagues, such as the professional ones who are above secondary education and are not senior. There was a mass admission of students, some of whom were students in quotes. If we're worried about dead souls, bad expression, in schools, we need to worry even more about those who are students and who appear to get their diploma at the end. We have a record of this kind of trouble. That is why I understand what is currently at stake, including yesterday's past, as a temporary measure, and not as more than a first step in a direction that we should consider together. You know well that we have foreseen a 12.8% increase in 40 percent in 2017 and I will watch and hold no less of you on an increase in the budget for education and science. Education does not run out, although its backbone is secondary, school education, but it does not run out of that. Next year, life and health, we will do everything possible for young scientists, as well as the good specialties in good universities or undergraduate universities, but if they have good departments, respectively specialties or such directions, which are a state priority, to be with better funding. We start with funding at this stage. This will probably conglomerate or federalize some of the higher education institutions, because they will have from this direct account. I'm sorry I can't say everything on this long and complicated issue. I'll take advantage of my right to reply to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u153	Mrs. Boyadjieva or Mr. Mirchev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I personally didn't hear a specific answer, so I'm going to put the subject a little bit more directly. We have information that a committee of 11 has already been appointed to evaluate scientific activities in scientific organizations and universities. They are appointed by the Minister. This brings political subjectivism and allows pressure on university autonomy. Where is the role of the NOA? If you're gonna shut it down, let me know. Why should science be politicized? What we will appreciate when the budget that is being prepared for 2016 is once again breaking the Law and not being given to universities the ten percent they should use to create science. I mean, we'll appreciate science where there's no money for it to be done. Again, about the Law, I said, "The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has been brought with the budget, which is determined to collapse. Optimization and lack of funding is a total genocide towards science and from there to the state. Here I will draw attention to the Declaration because it is connected by GERB, which they read. That's where they told honest lies. The budget for higher education decreased by 3 million and the budget for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences compared the assistants with the salaries of the hygienics in the organization. According to European standards, universities must preserve culture, social activity and regional development. With the huge and increasing poverty in Bulgaria, sociologists claim that the number of young people who simply cannot get out of their settlement and go to education in one of the neighboring cities is increasing. There is also the rumor that in this optimization one of the injured universities, which will be closed down, is Shumenski, and this is a region where people have nowhere to go, depopulation and Bulgaria really disappears there. This is an area that needs high school. You talked about optimization of 52 higher schools, but the state universities in Bulgaria are 38 and the optimization will be on them only, as there is no optimization on the private ones. They're entirely different laws. And one more sentence: promoting the consolidation and optimization process will simply be an act of merger and closure of state universities. Today we have committed a national betrayal in the Chamber against the security of the state. Do not do this in education, please, or at least do not be an accomplice in the current government, because the responsibility is entirely yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u155	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u156	Mr. Mirchev, I will certainly not do anything that is against the law, and I cannot do it. I can also not change it in the existing framework we have certain options. I know about the Commission proposed on my orders by Deputy Minister Denkov, who is involved in the Operational Programme. It's about this Commission, not the other one. Here the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency will be informed. I just got off the phone with prof. Biolchev. We will also be in touch on the issue of how money is distributed. That's why you have my word, and you can rest assured. I have also not taken a single step in higher education in one year without explicitly calling the Council of Rectors and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. We still have enough resources under the Operational Programme that are starting now, right now. The ministry was heavily burdened with the task of signing this Programme first, to pass the first, and the second control was our task so far. We will rely on these funds. I know very well the problem with young scientists. I know very well the problem with the difference that exists in Bulgaria between public and private schools. I repeat, this is the welded position. I'm an absolute adversary to this, because if, for example, in the field of health, we're going to Tokuda Hospital, which is private, we can cover what we need to cover. Such paths must be made, because without their mediation, without the transfer of credit, which is currently missing, which is the money in the economy, we have the credits, there will be nothing we can really do. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We need a new law, then there'll be more opportunities. I'm sorry I didn't come to your group. I've asked a few times to discuss these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u157	The next question to the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev is from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov concerning information about election campaigning in schools in Sliven. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister! Maybe it's a good thing that now it's time for this issue to ease the passions around the local elections, because it's a principle issue, not a private party. A little chronology. On October 12th and 14th, 2015 in the schools of Peyo Yavorov and in the town of Sliven are held meetings in the teacher's room with a candidate for mayor of the town of Sliven. On 15 October 2015, one of the political parties issued an alert to the Regional Education Inspectorate for this activity. On 21 October a reminder letter was sent from the Inspectorate to the directors. I just want to read a few lines of one and the other director's explanations. Director Denko Delchev from the school............................. [[Mister Todor Tanev spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. If I'm in your way, should I wait until you're done and then I'll move on?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u159	Proceed, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u160	Mrs. Mihalev, that's what the Chief of Inspectorate is called. I didn't have any opportunity to predict that Mr. Radev would be with the ladies. As a matter of fact, he stayed only ten minutes and left the school. In our school there was a meeting on the problems of the school, which we must decide, regardless of who will be elected mayor. It is important for us that this person is not lying, not embarrassing, and fulfilling his promises. The explanation of Director Dimitar Dimitrov from school is even more striking, where it was written: At 12.35 p.m., when the school hours had been completed, they were reduced to 35 minutes to be able to finish at 12.35 p.m. A meeting with Mr. Stefan Radev was held with the candidate for mayor of GERB, who became mayor, to be congratulated. However, for a number of reasons, this meeting was postponed and took place on 14 October 2015. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u161	Get your head in the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u162	I'm pointing, two more sentences. As a matter of fact, if BSP had sent their candidate, I would have accepted him as well. And notice the conclusion: In conclusion, I would like to declare that by the elections all candidates mayors are welcome at the School of Education Peyo Yavorov and the talks we will be having will be on the topics described above. On the basis of these explanations, the Inspectorate comes up with a clear view that there is no election campaign. So I ask you: what is your assessment and how do you qualify a visit and meetings with candidates for mayors and MPs, regardless of which political party, to schools during an election campaign? I say again, no matter what party they're from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. One minute you're late. I hope in the line you'll be shorter. Here you are, Mr. Tanev, to answer the question of MP Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I can tell you that on 15 October 2015 on the website of the Regional Inspectorate of Education, Sliven, in our district to regional inspectorates has published the necessary letter reminding all principals of schools and kindergartens what the Election Code is and that they should not allow election campaigning in state and municipal institutions and so on. Secondly, as early as before the beginning of the school year, a meeting with the directors has been attended by me personally repeatedly and persistently, in view of the upcoming elections for local authorities, the provision that exists, and I have obliged them against punishment in case of failure to be correct. Third, on 21 October 2015, at the Regional Education Inspectorate Sliven, a working meeting was held, in accordance with our order, with the directors of Sliven District, who are again reminded in connection with the upcoming elections that they are not entitled to pre-election campaign. Fourth, with written information from the directors requested by the head of the Regional Institute of Education, it was found that on 12 and 14 October 2015 two schools, at a time when there were really no classes, had meetings with teachers. Now I'm learning that this is the teacher's room, but it's not Alma Matter, and it's even better that she wasn't in a classroom, by the way. The information explicitly repeats that questions and problems have been raised in relation to the educational process, the state of the material base, the safe movement of students from and to the school and the last preservation of the life and health of the students. Since election campaigning and propaganda is to some extent an interpretive quantity, according to the lawyers of the Ministry, quoting § 1, item 1. 17 of the Additional Provisions of the Election Code: election campaigning, call, support or failure to support a candidate, party, coalition or initiative committee in participation in elections, which is not the case. For this reason, the Head of the Regional Education Inspectorate Sliven has established these facts that we trust. We should not believe that pre-election campaigning has taken place in the schools concerned in your question. So far, so much for the formal part. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Informally, even such interpretations and experiences that come to interpretation should not be allowed anywhere, as they say, any party. In this case, we don't have anything to worry about. It bothers me that too many people at such times use the entire educational system. It's not just used for pep talk. The system is believed somehow to be unbeatable to it... I can tell you what they are, but I don't know all of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u165	Time is up, Mr. Minister, so you can't tell. Mr. Ermenkov, you just delayed the time. Here's a short line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u166	I'm gonna cut the address short. Dear Minister, I know there is a de jure and a de facto interpretation of the questions. In your last sentence you told the truth.. should not be abused the sanctum of the Bulgarian education................................................................................... There should be no stains and doubts above it, including for election campaigning, whether it is a visit or anything. However, when a candidate for mayor visits in his election campaign, there is no other way to interpret this thing. I ask you very much, so that these abuses that you believe do not happen, and I am convinced that they are taking place in schools using the status of the school and trusting it to take the necessary measures, including disciplinary measures. Maybe the lightest, but still showing attitude of the Ministry's leadership to the case, because the formal side, as you very well defined it as formal, does not justify action, can no longer serve as a front for such actions. If no measures are taken, I am convinced that there is a danger that such relapses will occur in the future. Therefore, I ask you very much to be strict, uncompromising, fair and not only in the letter, but especially in the spirit of the law, as well as in your position as Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You were correct. Mr. Minister, now you can finish your thought in the form of a duvet to Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u168	Quite briefly on this long issue. The educational system of any country, including Bulgaria, which we are interested in, cannot be a bargaining chip in any way, in absolutely no way in other matters, especially political. This is absolutely unacceptable! Traditionally, however, there are sometimes such cases, although isolated. That's not exactly the case. I'm splitting it up. When I was head of the department and I've seen colleagues who in some form had commitments to certain parties, and in classrooms we are called audiences, they've called no students, other people, I've always told them: from here out. This place had to be something else so we wouldn't have any doubts. That's what I'd recommend. We made a mistake. We didn't work with social partners. I didn't think of this whole union thing. We relied only on a letter, on a law and my command, following these legal measures. I think we need to make additional measures in the legislative system so that absolutely all actions, including now eligible, are somehow incriminated. It can't be any other way. Please submit ideas and after their discussion in due order they will be included in the relevant legislation, in the regulations I mean from this point on, but they will have legal soil. I'm not talking about legitimacy, it's legal. It's okay. I'm asking you to accept this as my most sincere appendage to the entire guild that this is not happening. My appeal is that this does not happen in higher education institutions, and there because of autonomy happens more often. Let us be Europeans in this sense, if not Europeans, at least Scandinavians, where these things cannot happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u169	Time's up. If geography does not lie to me, Minister, Scandinavia is also in Europe, so the Scandinavians are Europeans.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u170	There's South Europe, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u171	Thank you. Those were all questions to you. We move on to questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. There are two questions for her. The first question is from the MP Atanas Stoyanov on measures to limit the refugee flow and build a fence facility along the border of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Republic of Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Stoyanov, to develop your question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, one of the most serious issues and problems for Bulgaria, and not only for it, and for the European community, is the daily, systematic and targeted movement of thousands of refugees and immigrants from the Middle East to Bulgaria and European countries. This problem directly concerns both our territorial borders and our national security. Unfortunately, the tendency with the refugee flow of people is to increase and increase the pressure on our borders. The situation is in fact already gaining other sizes and is becoming even more alarming after the terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe in the French capital of Paris. Currently, the Republic of Turkey is one of the largest centres for refugees and migrants, as well as a corresponding stop on their way to developed European countries. Bulgaria is also a potential stop on their way to Europe. In this regard, my questions to you are as follows: what actions and measures are being taken by the government in order to limit this refugee and immigrant flow? At what stage is the construction of the fence facility at our border with the Republic of Turkey? By what time is it planned to be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u173	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Here you are, Madam Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u174	Dear Mr. Karakachanov, dear Mr. Stoyanov, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! On the subject you're putting on, I can talk for a very long time. The status information is public. What I can say is that on average for this year we have an increase of about 2.5 times the migratory flow. In comparison, in Europe in the summer was four times, currently is six or seven times the increase. For the last few weeks, we've been practically stopping this stream, which doesn't make us feel better. We have not cancelled any of the current measures: continuation of the specialized police operation at the Bulgarian-Turkish border with increased presence of employees. There are 631 employees at the border, 429 posted by other structures of the Border Police and 202 posted by the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior; since April and currently the logistical support of the Bulgarian-Turkish border from the structures of the Ministry of Defence continues. We also take advantage of the possibility of the funding of the Shengen instrument and the External Borders Fund and the first and second phase of the integrated monitoring system. The system consists of eleven stationary technical surveillance posts, 117 km perimeter alarm and security systems, nine mobile technical surveillance posts, two video surveillance systems at the checkpoint, five local coordination centres and one regional one. System's set. We have some problems with her maintenance. In addition, we have prepared two plans. The first, approved by the Prime Minister, refers to joint actions by the Directorate General of Border Police with military formations by the Armed Forces to carry out security at our state border. According to his estimates, 40 Ministry of Defence troops have been introduced together with the Ministry of Defence's officials, and if necessary, their number may increase to 200 for replacement with the necessary equipment. The second plan is personally endorsed by me and refers to the actions of the Ministry of Interior in the event of possible crisis situations due to increased migratory pressure and the accumulation of a large number of foreigners in close proximity to the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. Such a danger existed months ago. We have also prepared estimates according to which the Ministry of Interior is ready within six hours after a sharp increase in migratory pressure to focus on designated centres. The other problem we're trying to limit is the reaction of the sewers. Article 280 and Article 280 281 of the Penal Code, which has been amended, enables us to impose higher penalties in the specialized operations we conduct. This is one of our main tasks. So far, we've had some pretty good results. On your second question, I will read the reference I have at the moment. In the area of the GPO, Svilengrad, Haskovo District, fully ready "8 km 300 m road." Currently, the work continues until the end of the year for another 24 km, fully completed in the construction of 7 km 600 m of the fence facility. Water gutters are built in two larger water districts and a bridge in the border pyramid area 315. In the area of the GPU, there are 32 km of road, all ready are 11.5 km of the fence facility and approaches to the border line of Lesovo. This is the area where we have the best performance and best performance rate. In the area of the GPOS Sredets, and the GPOS, Malko Tarnovo, Burgas region, are built 10 km 300 m road, and 2.5 km at the fence facility. This delay was foreseen in view of the complexity of the terrain. I would like to point out to you that where we already have a facility built, where it is being worked, this is already giving effect and helping our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I gave you more time on purpose because the reference you read was important to everyone. Mr. Stoyanov, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u176	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your information, serious and responsible attitude to the extremely serious issue. Certainly the refugee and migrant issue is no longer national or regional, it is rather global and widespread. In this respect, you deserve support for these initiatives and events that you have done so far. After all, it seems to me that there should be a little better coordination, a little better synchronization between the Bulgarian institutions and synchronization and coordination with the European institutions, because it is obvious that the terrorist attacks in Paris proved that the liberal approach, the liberal model and the quota principle of the distribution of refugees is obviously not working, is not working. In my opinion, we need a firmer approach, firmer and radical solutions relating to a lasting solution to this issue, because ultimately this problem should be solved with more radical, more complex and long-term measures. It is good what you have done and what is currently being done for the fence facility in Turkey. It is already evident that where there are fences, there are results. In this respect, the National Assembly has been and will be a partner of the government. You know that we have also amended the Public Procurement Act and provided a small amount for the construction of this facility. I hope that it will be built with quick steps so that it can be one of the elements and part of our permanent position to resolve this issue, with a view to limiting the refugee flow towards Bulgaria in order to resolve the lasting issue related to our public security and as a whole the national one.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u177	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u178	Dear Mr. Stoyanov, thank you for your assessment and understanding of this matter. I'm also required to make a few specifics. We are not just actively coordinating our efforts and policies with our European partners, we are participating in European policy and in trying to find the best solution. That is why Bulgaria has an active position in every forum that discusses this policy and presents our national position. The results that we have are mainly due to the regime that we apply to incoming foreign nationals, to the verification and their mandatory registration. As far as coordination is concerned. In the last month, within the framework of our Presidency of the Salzburg Forum, we have established very active contacts with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Balkan countries. Every day we exchange information about the number of foreign nationals entering, about the state of the bases in which we have them. So we are very intensively implementing these policies as well. You know we've joined and supported the relocation program. We're making an effort to make it happen right now. By the end of the year we have announced that we can accept 100 people from our quota, but the difficulties in making this wish are beyond our powers and capabilities, but we are very actively cooperating with both the Greek and the Italian countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova is from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov on the action taken by the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! My question will largely overlap with your response to colleague Stoyanov's previous question, but still. The tragic incident near the village of Dulevo highlighted much of the unfinished work by the Ministry of Interior. I point out and confirm this fact with a strong dose of concern because after this incident, or in this incident, in fact, the myth which created mainly Prime Minister Borisov that our external border is the best guarded in the European Union. I'm putting aside requests for awards for firing border police officers. There are pre-trial proceedings and judicial authorities will decide who is responsible in this case. In the statements of the Secretary-General and Vashti, it became clear that we have a number of serious security problems at the Bulgarian border. They relate to both the normal functioning of the built thermal vision integrated system, where it has reached, to the provision of border police bodies as financial conditions, missionary and additional need to build the partition facility. My question is: what concrete measures were taken by the Ministry of Interior after this incident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u181	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor for an answer in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u182	Dear Mr. Stoilov, dear Mr. Merdjanov, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The incident in Dulevo is quite worrying and all the measures that the Ministry of Interior has in a situation like this have been taken on it. A check has been made and I can inform you that I have personally ordered the continuation of this check because we have difficulties in registering the participants in this case, which appear in the process of their registration in the homes of the Department of Migration and in the homes of the State Agency for Refugees. In practice, all information on the case was provided to the District Prosecutor's Office in Burgas, a case was initiated and, in this regard, by the RDGP, all documentation concerning the actions of police officers involved in the incident was sent. According to the prosecution's description, an examination of the crime scene has been carried out, an investigative experiment has been conducted and experts have been appointed to clarify the case precisely. This trial isn't over. In addition, following the incident, instructions were drawn up to all border police departments regarding the order of action of border patrols in the detection of intruders. Emergency briefings have been carried out to inform all border-police units in the vicinity of the area, the number of wanted persons, their direction of movement, their distinctive features and the possible threats of this incident, the briefing to take immediate action by border police forces to secure endangered areas along the state border line or in the depth of the border area where this incident occurred, the briefing to redirect a larger number of border-police forces or in endangered areas, as well as the organisation of further technical and visual surveillance. Last but not least, continuous interaction and coordination of actions in the search, pursuit and detention of persons and road vehicles, better coordination, exchange of information, special instructions for conduct. As for the protection of the Bulgarian border, what you mentioned at the beginning, we have never covered up information about what forces we have, how we guard the border, it is needed. The specialized police operation is carried out with the number of employees that are half the number it has started with. We are therefore making efforts to complete the fence facility. But what is more important is that special efforts are directed within the territory of the country so that we can identify and detain all illegally entered the territory of the country and send them in the appropriate order to the migration centres and the State Agency so that we can register them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So when we talk about security at our border and guaranteeing our security, I think we can only partially talk about the border. Most of the efforts are also in the territory of our country. You are informed about the specialized operations that we periodically and systematically conduct so that we can achieve the desired result.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Merdjanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with what I have heard from you about the measures taken, although they could be complemented by the opening of additional states to the Border Police, something for which you had made a commitment and something that we have made as a concrete proposal to the budget for 2016 by 10 million to increase the budget of the Ministry of Interior in order to strengthen and secure security measures at the Bulgarian border. You are the Minister and will decide whether it is worth one such additional cost, but we think it is particularly necessary. As for the increased actions and measures, yes, I agree, but they followed the incident. And we have warned about the security at the Bulgarian border since the beginning of this year and you have to admit that if it had not been for these arbitrariness of your predecessor Minister Vuchkov to divert, to raise the living security at the border, perhaps the state of regulation of illegal crossings would have been at a far safer and demanding level. I say all this because at the last meeting of the Council on Internal Security and Public Order, already and officially, Bulgaria's external border has been adopted as the Schengen border. This further reinforces the requirements for us, obliges us bilaterally and, in turn, we also to lay down conditions for providing additional European solidarity, financial support and so on. I say all this with concern, not political speculation, because it is a fact that specialized police actions inside the country, but also the number of illegal migrants continues to grow. This is disturbing, despite the legislative changes that we have adopted. I would really like to be disclosed the results of the inspection that you have assigned to the incident near the village of Dulevo................ whether within the Internal Commission or in a more serious public plan, because it is important for both society and specialized authorities to be respected and to know that there is no joke with security at the Bulgarian border and cannot be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u185	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u186	Dear Mr. Merdjanov, you know that any information I have on topics that you are interested in will be provided to you. That's why there's no problem. With regard to your comments, yes, indeed, at the last meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, it was declared with a special statement by the Legal Service that Bulgaria's external border, including Romania, Malta, Cyprus and Croatia, are Schengen borders. In 2012, they were found to meet the requirements, and since 2012, we have been practically following the requirements and using Schengen information systems as a full member of the Schengen area. I think that this declaration is recognition, first of all, of Bulgaria's ability to carry out this function and, second of all, of something that I have repeatedly put to the Council that Bulgaria and the issue of its Schengen membership is already a matter not only for our country but a question of European security. So we started a 100% check on these borders, hours after the terrorist act itself, which was understood by our colleagues. With regard to the additional states, these states, which currently have seconded personnel, will be filled with employees who are under permanent contract. So I don't think I made a commitment to increasing the state, I just don't have a chance to do it. We really need more employees, but the budget won't let us. Therefore, thank you for your initiative to increase the budget of the Ministry of Interior by 10 million. Just for reference, our monthly secondment costs are 2.5 million in this number. As far as prevention is concerned, at no point have we given up on it. The plans I presented during my previous response show that they were developed days and weeks before we had an increase in the real danger to our country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I personally think that we can feel more confident because we really know what and how we should do. We are also prepared to make it happen, if by chance I hope this does not happen, there is an increase in pressure on our borders.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u187	Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control. We are now moving on to two questions to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. First, the minister will answer a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov about the obligation in the Law on Energy, Heat Efficiency and Factory Plants to install measuring instruments of a control nature.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For a long time in the Bulgarian energy sector there was uncontrollability, including the current from the heating plants and the plant plants were bought out without it being clear what was being bought out............................ whether it was high-efficiency production, which should be so under Law or something else. We didn't have an answer to that question for many years without having an honest answer and control, just buying the electricity. This is one of the reasons for the accumulation of deficits as there is no control, we do not really know what is going on there. In the Energy Verification Commission, we invited some of the heat pumps and asked them if they would install these measuring instruments. We've received some rather evasive answers. That is why we turned to you afterwards because we realized that without the control function of the Ministry of Controls will not be installed and things will continue the way they were supposed to be, as the expectation was that there would be no control, they would not install the instruments and nothing would happen. I understand that you have carried out this control and now I am interested not only myself, all colleagues, but I believe that Bulgarian citizens are also interested in the results. Did we get all the heat and plant plants to install appliances to pay for only what needs to be paid and nothing more, just high-efficiency production? And, secondly, will these instruments transmit information in real time? I mean, let's not be every half hour or every fifteen minutes, but at least every day, not every month. For what percentage of installed appliances are they provided to transmit data in real time? In order to know what is being bought, what is being bought and know that the Law is being respected from now on, which guarantees us the interest of the state, ensuring that the losses of NEC will not continue or at least that they will not continue in the direction in which they have happened over the years. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I'm asking you, Madam Minister, for a very specific answer, who have installed, who have not installed, and what will be the sanctions on those who have not installed?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u189	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer to the question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u190	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Dimitrov! At the beginning of my reply, I would like to inform you that a committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the electricity system operator and colleagues of the Commission on Energy and Water Regulatory as observers was appointed by my order of 25 September 2015. The Commission carried out an on-the-spot verification of all cogeneration installations in the country with regard to the course of implementation of the provisions of the Ordinance and the provision of methodological assistance for the implementation of the Ordinance if there is a need for it. For each verification of these cogenerations, a constitutional protocol on the status of implementation of the commitments arising from the requirements of the Ordinance is signed. The conclusion of the checks carried out on individual cogeneration plants is that at the date of the verification, 28 September 2015. The deadline was October 15th this year for the installation of these appliances, no cogeneration was able to transmit other data in real time than the data on electricity produced. According to the provisions of the Ordinance, by 14 October 2015, all manufacturers had to provide the relevant network operator with operational control capability by providing in real time data on thermal and electrical parameters of cogeneration plants. On 24 November 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 24 November 2015 to 25 November 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 November 2015 to 25 November 2020. On 24 November, the provisions of the Ordinance are implemented by: The other operators who have failed to fulfil their legal commitments set out reasons for the delay. We requested explanations from them and link these reasons with the following arguments: unsupplied equipment; lack of a signed contract with a contractor; emergency repair of a gas-powered engine; some plants are in the process of final testing. In locations the necessary equipment is installed and the operator is expected to make the necessary adjustments. I could provide you with detailed information about the condition in each of these cogenerations with the relevant motives. A large part of them also claim that public procurement procedures are underway in order to buy the relevant appliances. For each of the cogenerations, however, I can give you the current state at the moment. The other thing that I think is more important is this. You know that there is no way to provide sanctions in the Regulation, but on the other hand, the Energy Act could and should, in my opinion, provide for such sanctions. The Ministry of Energy will therefore initiate a legislative change to the Energy Act for introducing sanctions for these cogenerations which have not fulfilled their legal commitment. Apart from that, we have the assurance of the cogeneration that by the end of this year they will bring the cogeneration plants into line. I can give you the data right now so you can have it. [[Provides a folder of the MP Martin Dimitrov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u191	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u193	Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u194	Dear Minister, for too long in Bulgarian energy there was no strict control. Unfortunately, there are people who are accustomed to this way of working who want things to go on the same way that you, your team, are trying to introduce strict control as we have recorded in the Law, and we believe it is already being implemented. However, as I hear from your data, only some market participants comply with the provisions of the Law. Therefore, I will strongly support, I will speak with other colleagues, to support the introduction of explicit sanctions into the Law: who has not implemented, who has not installed appliances, his electricity should no longer be bought at the high price, but to provide for another, fair order to distinguish those who are strictly implementing the Law and those who are not implementing it, i.e. to finally have control in the sector. However, I would ask you the following. In addition to supporting the legislation that you will be proposing in this area, I urgently hope that this will happen, if possible, within this month, although I am aware of the other tasks that you and the Bulgarian Parliament have, in your opinion, as a person who knows the Law well, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission can only on the basis of this reason that there are no appliances installed, refuse at the moment the purchase of electricity from these companies at the high price characteristic of high efficiency production. I'm asking you as a man who knows the Law. I do not want to influence the Commission in any way. I know she's an independent body and she makes her own decisions. In addition to the sanctions you propose and I will support, do you think that the KEWRC currently has the power to refuse these companies that have not installed such appliances, buying at the high price?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u195	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for the duplicate answer for further information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would very much like this to be possible, because since the legislator has clearly determined an obligation for those persons who fall within the scope of the Energy Act, the obliged persons to install the appliances, since this is a condition to assess whether the energy they produce is produced in a highly efficient way, since they have not fulfilled that obligation, clearly cannot prove in an indisputable way that this energy is highly efficient. In my opinion, this could be treated as a reason not to purchase this energy until they prove it to be highly effective. Of course, this is my personal opinion, which I cannot involve colleagues from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. They have their regulatory options to express another position. In my opinion, however, since the legislator has clearly said what is required and it is not respected, then there is no way to prove in an indisputable way that this energy is exactly such. That's my personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova, for participating in the parliamentary control, after replying to the last question by the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov regarding available documents related to changes in the contracts for the purchase of electricity produced by the power plants. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question is because there is still a deficit of information among the public and among the MPs and there are conflicting facts about the signed and necessary changes in these contracts in the period 2001 - 2010. In this regard, as well as due to the serious public interest in the topic of so-called American power stations, please provide us with information and analysis on the following topics. What kind of metamorphosis did these contracts undergo from their original format, and what required this? Who are the responsible persons of the State and NEK, who led these contracts and negotiated these terms? What is the initial price for buying energy from these plants when signing contracts with them? What are the arguments that led to today's prices? Who are the responsible parties who conducted the negotiations and signed the changes? Are there documents and protocols certifying the positions of the two parties in the negotiation process? Have these long-term contracts been notified to the European Commission since Bulgaria joined the European Union in 2007? What legal restrictions does this create for the future actions of the Bulgarian state in relation to these contracts? Finally: Have the European Commission been provided with analyses of the effects of these long-term contracts, including analyses of the guarantees provided, as well as analyses of the size of the investments made and the rate of return guaranteed by the Bulgarian side on these projects?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u199	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mrs. Petkova, you have the opportunity to answer the question in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Karakachanov, Mr. Veselinov! I share the view that the subject of the signing and the subsequent changes to the long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity produced by AES Galabovo. In this respect, it should be stressed that under the confidentiality clauses in the relevant contracts, all information, documentation, data or know-how shall be treated as confidential between the parties and prior written consent of the other Party is required to disclose them. Given the large amount of information, I present to your attention in synthesized form the requested and correspondingly provided by NEK information on the order of the questions asked. The national electricity company is a party to two electricity purchase agreements concluded on 13 June 2001, respectively with The main obligation of the company under these contracts is to purchase the amount of electricity produced and the availability provided for negotiation by the power plants for a period of 15 years from the date of entry into commercial operation. The two agreements, as well as the amendments thereto, were signed by the legal representatives of NEK at the time. The amendments to the Agreement for the purchase of electricity between NEK and AES 3C Maritsa East 1 - a change to the final date for the final provision of funding, the time limits for financing, the provision of guarantees and collateral; - amendments relating to the collateral provided by the buyer for the performance of its obligations to purchase electricity and availability, instead of transferring claims from the relevant electricity distribution companies, an arrangement has been made to establish a pledge on these claims. Part of the amendments are related to a change of definitions concerning the date of commercial operation and the timetable for the implementation of the project; - changes related to the buyer's obligations before the date of the overall commercial operation at its own expense to organise the construction of interconnection facilities and the preparation for obtaining net electricity; - amendments relating to the introduction of the requirements of the European Union Directive 2003/87 and the Environmental Protection Act on greenhouse gas emissions. The change also relates to the introduction of a new component into the energy payment formula; - changes related to the effect of default on the part of the buyer, given the upcoming restructuring of the NEK. The latest amendment to date was concluded on 14 August 2015, with the change related to a decrease in the availability price. The amendments to the Electricity Purchase Agreement between NEK and "Contour Global Maritsa Iztok 3" AD from the date of its signature are 7 in number and relate to: - introduction of additional availability, baseline availability; - modification of other definitions; - change in payment components; - changes related to operating procedures; - the planned date for the completion of the modernisation or corresponding payments by the buyer; - as well as the amount of the calculated costs of modernisation; - changes to the power component due to changes in the legislation and the obligation of the seller to build and put into service; - reduction changes in the component of the payment for available capacity due to the refinancing of the project and achieved a positive material effect on the seller; - amendment of the components of the payment for available power and extension of the planned date for completion of modernisation. The latest change relates to the introduction of the requirements for a European Union directive No 2003/87 and the Environmental Protection Act on greenhouse gas emissions, which represents a change in legislation and negotiates a new formula for calculating the payment for energy, quota trading mechanisms, greenhouse emissions, etc. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. According to the signed long-term contracts, the National Electricity Company is obliged to buy electricity at two-component prices, consisting of a price for energy and a price for availability. The elements and methods of calculation of the total payment and escalation of the price, according to the financial models provided by the two plants and established respectively by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the former SEWRC, these prices are changed according to the changes in coal prices, changes in the Bulgarian and European inflation indices of consumer prices and other factors, including the price of the oil, price of limestone, costs of disposal, prices of emissions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In accordance with art. 58, § 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Bulgaria should have notified the Commission of State aid and provided all the long-term contracts at the date of Bulgaria's accession to the European Union 1 January 2007. Such notification has not been made. As you know, in 2014, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, on the basis of an analysis carried out, referred to the European Commission as alleged inadmissible State aid in respect of the two plants, addressing the European Commission. The production initiated by the European Commission is the production of alleged State aid in the form of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity. This procedure aims to establish whether State aid has been granted and, if it has been granted, to qualify it as unlawful, the beneficiaries of the aid will have to recover it. The possible qualification of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity as unlawful State aid will take place at the conclusion of the investigation, with the European Commission responsible for making those qualifications, and in particular the Directorate General for Electricity. In the duplicate I will be able to specify in particular the number of agreements and the persons who have signed them.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u201	Good, because I left you and a little more time since there was a lot of text, but the information is still not complete. Please ask your additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u202	Dear Minister, in fact I am also aware that the price is formed by many components. What is happening among the experts involved in this area is that when the contract is signed, applying the price model to these outputs, one of the plants should have a price of about 36 euros per megawatt hour, while at the moment it has almost double dimensions. This was perhaps the essence that I wanted to hear is such a statement true, because it is the simple fact that will reach the Bulgarian citizens. And as a second additional question, is there a scenario of what is happening and what will NEK's reaction to the last annex be if we fail to provide funding for the payment of the amounts due by NEK to the two plants?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u203	Here you are, Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions and additional information to provide.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u204	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Veselinov, Mr. Karakachanov! Indeed, this topic is very extensive and within five minutes it is very difficult to concentrate, as it starts from the distant 2001, but what I can share with you about the price, because, as I have already had the opportunity to say, all these clauses of these agreements represent information that cannot be disclosed. There's a confidentiality clause, and I can't explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u205	You can at least as a tendency to say whether the conditions for the Bulgarian country have been improved or worsened.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u206	Yes, but as a trend I can say the following: what the analyses of the National Electricity Company show at present: if these plants are loaded at maximum power, because you know that the price depends on their load, the price is two-component, the cost of availability is higher than the price for energy. And when these plants work, we pay less. When they don't work, we pay more. For this reason, in the analysis that NEK has done, when loading these plants and when the reduction enters into force, the trend is as follows: the price that NEK will have to pay for the energy of AES will be about BGN 132, the one that will have to be paid to the "Contour Global" is about BGN 97. at a megawatt hour. This is the trend that is based on analysis and statistical information. That's what I can tell you. With regard to what is possible scenarios, if NEC fails to pay its overdue debts, unfortunately I think that we do not have a large choice of possible scenarios, since there are contracts, these contracts contain clauses which the two parties in the distant 2001 and subsequently with those agreements that have been signed, they are agreed and those clauses should be respected anyway. The national electricity company declared this energy, it was produced, NEK took that energy and sold it, and it actually has to pay at the prices that were agreed. In my opinion, we should not think about such scenarios, rather should be thinking about that these funds should be provided and the Bulgarian Energy Holding is doing everything possible to negotiate with the banks so that this resource can be provided to enable NEK to pay off the plants, and the two US power plants in their part, as agreed in the Agreement, to automatically pay off their debt to the mines, which by today is just over 300 million. I think we should work to make the NEK scenario come true so that both American power plants can pay their defaults to the mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u207	You have about half a minute left if you think you have any important information.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u208	If you want, I can tell you who are the persons who have signed the agreements over the years. I can provide you with additional information if you want. 9 agreements have been signed with regard to the AES. The first supplementary agreement of 2002 was signed by Vasil Anastasov. 4 additional agreements were then signed between February 2005 and September 2008. They are signed by Mr. Lyubomir Velkov and Mr. Madrick Papazian. Then in 2010 was signed an agreement by Krasimir Parvanov, in 2012 an agreement by Krum Anastasov, in 2014 was signed an agreement by Yordan Zhelev. And on August 14, 2015, the last agreement was by Mr. Petar Iliev. 7 additional agreements have been signed with regard to The first was in 2003 by Mr. Vasil Anastasov. 4 agreements were then signed from 2006 to 2009. They were signed by Lyubomir Velkov and Madrick Papazian. In 2011, Mr. Mikhail Andonov signed an agreement and 2015 Mr. Petar Iliev signed the last agreement to reduce the cost of availability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u209	Thank you. Mr. Veselinov, you have two minutes to express your attitude to Minister Petkova's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u210	Of course, I'm pleased with Mrs. Petkova's answer. Moreover, we at the Patriotic Front treat her with sympathy for her efforts to introduce some order in the field of energy, realizing that this is quite difficult, as the historical issue is extremely busy. However, we want this story not to go down in history. We want everyone who's signed to be famous. And if there is evidence that these anexes, especially the notorious Annex 1, have been to the detriment of the current consumer in Bulgaria, the necessary responsibility should be sought because this is the main conclusion in order to restore confidence in government. Anyone who takes on long-term obligations for generations of Bulgarians forward must know that they are assumed with the clear awareness that the next day should be responsible for their actions. It is my request to the Minister to continue in this direction, to carry out the necessary analysis of these anexes and, if there is a breach of the state interest, to seek responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-11-27.u211	It completes parliamentary control and thus the National Assembly meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
