ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] One message. On the basis of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, and in connection with the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Cooperation in the Field of Defence, the Minister of Defence shall inform the National Assembly that he has, by his order, authorised joint Bulgarian-American preparations for the period from 26 March to 20 April 2015, including in which forces and funds will participate, as follows: 1. of Romania's Land Forces; 2. From the United States Marine Corps. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, by another State or organisation, armed forces. The event was held in implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in Bulgaria and abroad in 2015. The notification was presented by letter of the Defence Committee. According to our adopted work programme for this week as the first item for today's plenary day: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Importers: Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs. There has been a report from the Commission on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The report will introduce us to Mr. Lazarov. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u2	Madam President, I ask that you put to the vote first in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 152 MPs: for 149, there are no abstentions 3. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite Mr. Tzipov. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u4	♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 554-01-56, submitted by Dimitar Nikolov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015. The Commission, at its extraordinary meeting held on 24 March 2015, examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 554-01-56, submitted by Dimitar Nikolov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General. They expressed their support for the amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications. Opinions were received in the Commission by the Communications Regulation Commission and the Personal Data Protection Commission, which support the so proposed amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Communications. In his motives for announcing the texts of art. The Constitutional Court points to several main discrepancies between the separate parts of the provisions challenged by the Ombudsman, but in so far as they are part of a comprehensive procedure, it considers that the framework in general does not comply with the Constitution. The specific discrepancies with the Constitution to which the Constitutional Court refers are: 1. the admission of the possibility to provide access to data necessary for investigating crimes that are not serious (under art. 319 (a.k.a. 319e of the Criminal Code) as well as the search for persons; 2. the provision of a wide range of entities that may request access to traffic data without binding the request with jurisdiction in the detection and investigation of serious crimes; 3. the lack of judicial control over requests for the continuation of the retention period and the duration of the period for which it is allowed; 4. the lack of control over the destruction of the data reference issued which is not used to initiate pre-trial proceedings; 5. the duration of the data storage period (12 months); 6. the need to motivate the request and permission to access. In order to address the findings of the Constitutional Court, the proposed new framework provides: 1. shortening the storage period to 6 months; 2. dropping the possibility of having access to the data for the purpose of investigating crimes that are not serious and for the purpose of searching for persons; 3. specifying the possibility for authorities having jurisdiction in the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crimes to obtain access to data which are necessary precisely in connection with the implementation of their powers in the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crimes; 4. motivation of the request and permission for access; 5. judicial control of the request for continued storage; 6. control by an independent state authority of the destruction of data after the expiration of storage periods; 7. judicial control over the destruction of the data reference which is not used for the purposes of pre-trial proceedings. The bill provides for an amendment to the relevant provisions containing a reference to the unconstitutional texts declared, as well as an amendment and an addition to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. The amendments are aimed at uniformising the legal terms used in so far as the legal definition in § 1, para. 2 of the Additional provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure contains a definition of traffic and in § 1, point. 71 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications contain a legal definition of the concept of 171a of the Penal Code. The Appendix to the Criminal Code aims to cover more fully the cases of breaches of the rights of citizens for whom criminal liability is envisaged, which, apart from the administrative and criminal liability provided for in the LEU, is an additional guarantee of the rights of citizens. The Appendix to the Code of Criminal Procedure is aimed at establishing judicial control over the provision of traffic data necessary for the investigation of serious criminal offences, the need for which is affected in the Constitutional Court's decision. With the proposed amendments and additions, as well as those provided for in art. 261a "261b" of the LEU procedures for control of the legality of the storage, provision and destruction of data affecting constitutionally regulated rights of citizens by an independent body (the Personal Data Protection Commission) and a permanent committee in the National Assembly shall be established sufficient safeguards against misuse of data that may affect protected constitutional rights. The members of the BSP Commission left Bulgaria said they did not have any proposals to amend the bill and will vote on abstentions. The President of the Commission proposed that the bill be adopted by a second vote in the Chamber on the grounds of art. 77 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, about which the majority of the MPs united. It was held that the temporary adoption of the changes tabled would make the work of the security services difficult. In this regard, the President of the Commission indicated that a second voting report was drawn up for the Editorial Amendment Bill. Following the presentation of the bill, a vote was held, in which the Commission with 11 votes for abstentions, 2 votes for abstentions and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 554-01-56, submitted by Dimitar Nikolov and a group of MPs on 20 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. On behalf of the importers? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill was submitted in urgent order. It is signed by MPs from the parliamentary groups of the Patriotic Front, Reformist Block, DPS, ABB, from all parliamentary groups. It is not signed by colleagues from Coalition for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u7	BSP left Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u8	Excuse me, it is not signed by BSP left Bulgaria. What requires the urgent adoption of the Bill? I will not repeat the reasons for the submission, which are basically also contained in the report. Last week, both in the Commission and with colleagues, we discussed the Constitutional Court's decision declaring some of the texts unconstitutional. The decision should be published in the Official Gazette tomorrow. The deadline for entry into force is 3 days, which means that next week, on Tuesday, this decision of the Constitutional Court will enter into force. If we do not adopt this Bill in an urgent order, that means that operators who store data will have no reason to do so. The text of art. 250a, which gives them reason to store these traffic data, is declared unconstitutional and will enter into force on Tuesday. This means that absolutely all data that have been stored up to now. 12 or 6 months, or 1 month, must be deleted. That's how the software was made. They will not have the legal basis to store them, even more so there is a text in the Penal Code, which provides for criminal liability if, contrary to the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, such data are stored. They will not store data from now on if we delay the adoption of this Bill. This means, in practice, that the security services, the investigating authorities will not be able to make use of this opportunity necessary to detect and prove and prevent crimes. For national security, this in practice, colleagues, means that all requests from partner services that will enter or have entered, or will occur in a month or two, will not be able to benefit from this opportunity, I repeat, because the data will be destroyed. This requirement is for operators, they are obliged to comply with it and they comply with it. That is why my request is and I call on my fellow Members to show understanding, because we will indeed seriously jeopardize both the investigation and the prevention of crime and the interaction with partner services. I will briefly mention the situation at the moment in the Middle East, in North Africa. You know there's been human trafficking. You know that there are participants from European countries who are also passing through Bulgaria to participate in the military actions of the so-called ISIL organization, which is why I believe and express confidence that all MPs will be aware and responsible for voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Debates are open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in them to give a sign. Here you are, Mr. Merdjanov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications that we are dealing with today are necessary in view of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court, by which the current framework on access to the so-called "traffic data" was declared unconstitutional. Mr. Lazarov just mentioned that the decision has not yet been published. It is also really important that these changes are made quickly so that the work of the services is not hampered. But working quickly does not mean that the problems should be rushed, because it is precisely such a rush, because of it, today we are in the situation of urgency and uncertainty in terms of such an important issue. The same was the situation at the first adoption of the Law at the end of 2009 and at the beginning of 2010. Then again you were in a hurry, just like today. Then the European Union adopted a directive, and you didn't think to cheat it. Now the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision and you are still changing a law without thinking. Even at that time, we have pointed out to you that the Law tabled, despite its good intentions, creates a sense of policeness, which leads to more uncertainty and more fear. We have insisted that you withdraw it, that it be reconsidered in order to give sufficient guarantees against violations of constitutional rights. Then you didn't hear us. You will not be sure to hear from us today, because this Parliament is becoming more and more like the previous National Assembly dominated by GERB. With a slight difference, however, before the Blue Coalition was an opposition, quite active precisely by this Law, which they then challenged, and today not only support, but in the name of their state-owned thinking they will be looking to spend it the fastest, almost at the speed of light. I mentioned the reason why this bill was introduced. This is a decision of the Constitutional Court and we must comply with it. Such is also the statement of its importers, which state in their motives that the proposed new regulation overcomes the non-compliance found by the Constitutional Court in the basic law. But is it? Is the proposed changes really a balance found between the pursuit of the legitimate objective, such as the investigation of crimes and the means to achieve it? This question deserves more attention because these funds lead to direct interference in people's privacy. I say the people, because it's about everyone's personal life, not just those suspected of preparing or committing a crime. Yes, the amendments to the Law are necessary because we cannot deprive the authorities of the possibility of tracking traffic data, but very real are also the remarks of the Constitutional Court, and they are treated quite formally. The Council of Ministers was the importer of the declared unconstitutional law and still the government should clean it up. Instead, a group of MPs hasten to submit a law. Why? To explain to them again the constitutional judges that for years the Bulgarian legislation has not provided sufficient protection for civil rights. For us, the problem is complex enough and significant enough to try to solve it on the principle of putting out a fire as is the case. The proposed changes are part of the debate on the thin border between freedom and security, and we already know from experience that this border should be respected especially carefully when power is predominantly in the hands of the political party GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to speak? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications sets out an attempt to settle public relations in order to provide, use, store and destroy traffic data, aiming at overcoming unconstitutional texts described in detail in Decision No 8 of the Constitutional Court of 2014. First of all, this Bill reduced the period for storing traffic data from 12 to 6 months, but the same is not motivated why for exactly a period of 6 months. The analysis in the constitutional decision of the provisions clearly shows that the data generated for the period laid down by the law, which is now 12 months, contains complete information on who with whom, when, how, with which device and where exactly has performed its communications. In detailed and detailed evaluation of the generated data, sufficient meaningful conclusions can be drawn regarding the personal life of people, a detailed profile of the individual not only without its explicit consent, but even without it knowing about it. The importer's proposal does not provide a clear answer to the question of the six months would it not be possible to do these analyses to an indefinite range of individuals, virtually all using different modern communications as a form of communication. Next, the bill has repeated the situations of the declared unconstitutional text of art. 250 of the Law on Electronic Communications with regard to authorities entitled to request information on traffic data. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, the legislator has extended the majority of the authorities having those powers, not all of which have the powers legally conferred on them to detect and investigate serious crimes. In accordance with art. 34 The freedom and secrecy of correspondence and other communications are inviolable from the Constitution. An exception to this rule shall be allowed only with the permission of the judiciary where this is necessary only for the detection and prevention of serious crimes. Thus re-established the norm in the current Bill, again, does not correspond to art. 34 of the Constitution and of the reasons of the Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Decision cited above. Nowhere is the draft provided for and legal possibility that persons concerned by the measures whose data have been provided to the relevant State authorities but have not served to initiate criminal proceedings or proceedings have been terminated, to be informed of when and on what grounds they were subject to their application and of what they were used for. In this sense, the Law does not contain precise and clear rules that exclude the formation of a sense of threat and observation. In conclusion, this bill has partially complied with constitutional requirements and should be adjusted. In this sense, I could not support it at first reading, as the philosophy and meaning of the Law do not correspond with the Bulgarian Constitution and create a reasonable sense of threat of observation in the citizens, which observation does not aim to prevent and detect serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u13	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put on first reading the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications. Vote 148 MPs: 121, against 4, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u14	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u15	Here you go. Who wants a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u16	Me.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u17	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Due to the wrong vote, please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u19	Colleagues, we're in re-election mode. I'm asking for your vote. They voted 147 MPs: 118, against 5, abstention 24. The proposal is accepted, the error is corrected, on the left there is no vote for the left. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! We heard the speeches. The bill was voted on at first reading. There were no proposals for amendments to the texts as voted. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Yes, there were critical remarks on the principle of limitation of rights. Therefore, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 I ask that this bill be subject to two votes in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u21	Inverse opinion on the so proposed procedure? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u22	I am making a reverse proposal to give a short period of time for proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u23	This is essentially a new proposal. You, in your speech and Mr. Merdjanov, did not say that between first and second readings you will submit proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u24	We are now declaring.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u25	But the debate is closed! We're in next procedure mode. We had two votes in the first reading. I put to the vote Mr. Lazarov's proposal for a vote at first and second reading in a plenary sitting of this Bill, as no proposals between first and second reading were put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u26	This is not necessary to state.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u27	Excuse me? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, before I announce the vote, I shall recall the text of art. 77: The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendment or supplement to the bill have been made during the discussion. Such proposals have not been made in the stenogram. The request is therefore admissible. I put to the vote the proposal for a simultaneous vote in a plenary sitting at first and second reading of this Bill. They voted 147 MPs: 121 against 26 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov. Revoting Mr. Popov. [[Noise and shouts: "Eeeee!" by AG of GERB.]] Colleagues, it's a resonant procedure. I don't see why there's such a racket in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u28	I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u29	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 147 MPs: 119, 28 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u30	Mrs. Chairman! The Law on Electronic Communications is amended and supplemented by the Law on Electronic Communications. I read the title, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u31	Report the texts that are supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u32	Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 by importer shall be supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u33	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law and paragraphs 1 to 5 including an importer supported by the Commission. We vote. Vote 141 MPs: 118 against 11, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u34	The Commission proposes to create a new § 6. It's about a technical amendment: ........................................................... In § 8, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications (en. DV, No. 17, 2009) The words.............................................. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u35	However, it is § 80. One, and you said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry," and you said, "I'm sorry," and you said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u36	Paragraph 80, para. One, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u37	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 a new one, on the Commission's report and in its version. They voted 141 MPs: 117, against 10, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u38	'Concluding provisions'. Paragraph 6 becomes § 7, § 7 becomes § 8, § 8 becomes § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u39	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the division Colleagues, we vote on these provisions, supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 110, against 6, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. The next item of the weekly programme: SELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS. The selection procedure is by rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly. I recall these rules in their part concerning the procedure in plenary, which are promulgated in No. 18 of this year's Official Gazette: "V." Election of a candidate for Chairman, Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of Auditors from the National Assembly. 1. The meetings are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is obvious through the computerized voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The decision was adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly on 5 March 2015 With an I.V. application. No 554-00-569 of 25 March 2015 by Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, it is said that the raised candidacy for President of the Court of Auditors of Mrs. Gorica Nikolova Gruncharova-Kojareva on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has been withdrawn. Following are the signatures of Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Karakachanov. We should hear the report... [[Noise and lines.]] In this regard, please, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the past period of more than a week, we have had the opportunity to meet the candidates of both candidates. With the candidacy of our candidate Mrs. Gorica Gruncharova, we were very well acquainted with her professional, personal, moral qualities and with her uprightness, and intransigence, and especially incorruptibility. But we also had the opportunity to get acquainted with the elevated candidate from the Reformation Bloc Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov and both during discussions in the group and at a meeting of the Commission, as well as in personal discussions, to be convinced of his professionalism and the existence of qualities necessary for the management of this extremely important body of the social and political life of Bulgaria. After a meeting of the group and a thorough discussion with my associate Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, we decided that we should not allow the election of the President of the Court of Auditors to become a field of political fighting. This body has extremely important importance and I think that all, not only our group, but everyone in the National Assembly, must show that this body is an outside party and that it is extremely responsible and has the right to be fully supported by the National Assembly. In this regard, we have decided to withdraw our candidacy, and I would also like to thank Mr. Tsvetkov for the commitment he made to the inclusion of Mrs. Gruncharova in his team as Vice-President. We also call on the other Members of the National Assembly to forget the small political disputes and passions and to support the candidacy, giving a good sign for the whole Bulgarian society. Thank you. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u42	Thank you, Madam President, although after this speech the report and presentation are unnecessary and we can go straight to the vote. But let's follow the procedure. Madam President, please allow Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov into the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u43	I put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Tsvetan Lilov Tsvetkov. Vote 112 MPs: 110, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tsvetkov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u44	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on hearing the proposed candidates Goritsa Nikolova Gruncharova-Kojareva and Tsvetan Lilov Tsvetkov for President of the Court of Auditors At an open session held on 19 March 2015 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for President of the Court of Auditors under Section III of the rules of procedure adopted on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-Presidents and two members of the Court of Auditors, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that the documents presented by the two candidates - Goritsa Gruncharova and Tsvetan Tsvetkov - the same ones meet the requirements of the Law on the Court of Auditors for the appointment of President of the Court of Auditors and should be admitted to a hearing. Mrs. Gruncharova's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, was presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u45	Mrs. Stoyanova, I apologize, but I read the Rules of Procedure correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u46	It's part of the resume, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u47	Subject to the wording of the Rules of Procedure. We expect a summary of the report from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u48	I still have to say who introduced Mrs. Gruncharova. Mrs. Simeonov noted that Mrs. Gruncharova has a higher education and 23 years of experience in accounting, control and audit, from 2005 until this term she was a member of the Court of Auditors and this quality knows the activities, methods and organisation of the work of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov's candidacy, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the Reformation Block, was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, President of the Commission. Following the submission of the nominations of the two candidates, their personal presentation and presentation of their concepts of the Court of Auditors' activities have been transferred. According to T. 5 of Section III of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova reported the opinion and questions received by Mr. Angel Angelov in his capacity as President of the Union of Auditors from the Court of Auditors. The view is that the two proposals submitted for the President of the Court of Auditors are palliative and serve highly defined political and Mercantial interests. Both candidates have inadequate education and do not have the necessary qualities. The questions raised to the two candidates were not admitted by the Commission as they are essentially not clear meaning and are not relevant to their hearing. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the two candidates met the legal requirements for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates, as well as the qualifications they acquired, are positive prerequisites for the competent and responsible management of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote on the proposed applications of Goritsa Nikolova Gruncharova-Kojareva and Tsvetan Lilov as President of the Court of Auditors in accordance with Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for which the draft decision for each candidate applies to this report. We have implemented draft solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u49	After the withdrawal of one application, report the second.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u50	Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the The Court of Auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED He elected Tsvetan Lilov Tsvetkov as President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u51	We now expect you as an importer to present Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u52	I'll present it briefly. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov is a candidate proposed by the Parliamentary Group of GERB and the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov graduated from the University of National and World Economy, a major in Accounting. He has many years of experience in finance, financial control and auditing. He began his professional career as a financial auditor in the system of Head of State Financial Control at the Ministry of Finance in 1998 by consistently passing through the positions of the Chief Financial Auditor,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In 2000, Mr. Tsvetkov was appointed director of the Directorate of State Financial Control and led the negotiations with the European Commission on Chapter Twenty-eight "Financial Control" to harmonise our national legislation in the field of financial control and the acquis of European law. The negotiations cover both the transformation of state financial control into a state-of-the-art internal audit and financial inspection institution and the transformation of the Court of Auditors into an external audit institution for public finance management. He is the advisor of the Minister of Finance from 2002 to 2003. From May 2006 to February 2011 he is head of the Internal Audit Unit of the Court of Auditors and from 26 January 2011 to 30 April 2014 he is Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria, elected by the Forty-first National Assembly. Mr. Tsvetkov has participated in numerous projects on financial management and control, risk management, internal audit and external audit in the public sector, such as the project manager for the establishment of effective public procurement and audit systems in the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, aimed at citizens, on the initiative of the American Agency for International Cooperation. He is lecturer at international conferences and seminars organized by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development by the European Confederation of Internal Auditors. Mr. Tsvetkov holds a public sector internal auditor certificate and international internal auditor certificates, public sector auditor certificate, certified internal auditor is under the International Institute of Internal Auditors Programme, a certificate of confidence in risk management of the International Institute of Internal Auditors and others. That's the biographical reference. I would say that our colleagues who are in finance know Mr. Tsvetkov from his work as Vice-President of the Court of Auditors that he has proved through his work his strong professionalism, which for me is the basic guarantee of independence, for setting professional criteria and values as a top priority. He enjoys a good name and trust from his colleagues in the auditor's guild. As President of the Court of Auditors, I believe that it will bring stability, calmness to the Supreme Audit Authority. I am sure that he will take absolutely all the necessary steps to ensure professionalism in the work of the Court, in the work of every auditor in this Chamber. Once again, I would like to say that respect for the Law, international audit standards, the high professionalism of every auditor working in the Court of Auditors...............................that, ladies and gentlemen. is the only guarantee of independence of this high authority. I believe that her chairman, who has similar qualities, will do everything possible there for professionalism to prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The debate is open. Please, the MPs who will participate in it, give a sign. Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope, Madam President, you won't order the lights to be turned off. We want to tell you that what we are currently observing is an agreed match. We've seen clearly how it works and how there's actually a race going on with a horse. The withdrawal of the candidacy by the Patriotic Front means only one negotiation behind the scenes. What prompted the Patriotic Front to propose to the Commission the lady who is now withdrawing, with superlatives for her candidacy, as a person very valuable and very qualified for this post? What happened during this time to change its thinking the Patriotic Front and its leaders to withdraw this candidacy? It is better to explain this here than to now play pseudo-races with a single racer. Our parliamentary group cannot look at this election between one person except as an agreed match. We cannot participate in agreed matches, so we wish you success. We expect the Court of Auditors' first inspection to be against the Attack Party, as has happened many times, and to dig under the ox to search, but we are used to it. It is important that the Bulgarians understand that here in this Parliament there are many backstage agreements, many backstage agreements and that this is not the way the state should be managed.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u55	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u56	Honourable Members, Madam President! We stand before the hypothesis of a single candidate for President of the Court of Auditors, which is a clear sign that the proposal of the ruling majority will be supported. I will not agree with the withdrawal of the second candidate's proposal that the race with one candidate is a sign of political consensus, a sign of political responsibility, a sign of political maturity of the National Assembly. Rather, this is a clear sign of a political deal reached within the ruling majority. In any case, the competition between two candidates is better than the competition of a candidate who will compete with himself and will obviously be supported. Therefore, in the framework of the parliamentary procedure, I address Mr. Tsvetkov with the following questions. According to the rules adopted in the Law on the Court of Auditors by the ruling majority, it will be his responsibility to propose the two Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors. It is obvious that they will also be the result of a political deal. He will have to propose for the first time within this procedure and two representatives of NGOs who are supposed to be candidates for NGOs. Its responsibility will be for these two proposals, whether they meet the legal requirements, and whether the procedures in non-governmental organizations are respected accordingly, so that the choice made by the National Assembly on its proposal is legitimate. So I'm going to give him two documents. [[shows documents]] which show the way and vices of the procedure for determining the proposals of these two NGOs. I will read part of one letter addressed to the management of the Institute of Graduated Accountants and one of the regional organizations of this Institute. In this letter, the regional organisation states that...
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u57	Mrs. Manolova, excuse me, is this a question for the candidate for President of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u58	Yes, I have the right to ask him a question according to parliamentary procedure. In this letter, the regional organisation of this professional NGO says the following: "In our opinion, the nomination procedure is vitiated for several reasons: there are no clear and specific criteria previously announced; the nomination procedure is unclear and incomplete and does not provide any guarantees of transparency of the process; there are inequalities between the candidates who are members and those who are not members of the Governing Council; the requirement of the Law on the Court of Auditors for conducting a public procedure is violated; there is no published information on the voting of the individual members of the Governing Council, despite the information that the vote is manifest and it is not clear why a candidate is classified in that place. With all this in mind and other arguments put forward by the regional organisation, they say: "We are addressing you with a proposal to cancel this procedure, to announce a new procedure with clear rules for nomination of candidates and precise criteria for evaluation of the nominated candidates in full transparency and openness of the process. In other words, there is definitely tension in one of the two organisations regarding the way the candidate is broadcast. There have been allegations by a regional organisation that the entire procedure has been corrupted. With regard to the second organization. As I have already had the opportunity to announce to the Members of the National Assembly in the framework of the adoption of the procedure for the election of President and Members of the Court of Auditors, there are some extremely disturbing facts in the procedure of the other organisation. First of all, it is about the Institute for Internal Auditors. In the Rules of Procedure, which I will also make available to you [[shows them]] , is the person to be proposed to be a member of this organisation, to have paid membership and, notice, if the member of the organisation in question is elected as such of the Court of Auditors, to sign an agreement with this non-governmental organisation. In this agreement, he undertook that the fourth or fifth member of the Court of Auditors should work for the interests of the Institute of Internal Auditors of Bulgaria and to strengthen the internal audit. That is to say, a member of the Court of Auditors, a high-level audit body, which must provide an independent, objective, fair audit of public organisations, signs an agreement which is committed to working for the interests of a non-governmental organisation. Further, the rules of procedure which I am about to provide you say the following: The candidate must not be in a situation of serious, real conflict of interest. That is, the candidate who will be proposed to you may be in a situation of a serious conflict of interest. Further on, they say: "It is difficult to find an ideal candidate in respect of which there is no and no form of connectivity and conflict of interest. Further on: The existence of a conflict of interest is not in itself the basis for the application to be rejected. The rules of procedure of the second organisation are stated in advance that they do not consider the existence of a conflict of interest in relation to the proposed candidate and even that the existence of a non-serious conflict of interest would be normal for that candidate. I understand the delicacy of the situation in which you are placed, because you are not the author of the Law, which adopted the parliamentary majority. According to this Law, not at your will, but according to the Law, you are assigned the role of a carrier pigeon, which should carry the two proposals of NGOs from them or from any party headquarters to the National Assembly. Therefore, I call on you to provide you with these documents, as it is within your power to refuse to submit a candidacy that has been chosen in an illegitimate manner or which is in a serious conflict of interest, to do so. Because as soon as you make the proposals, they will be your responsibility. You will take responsibility for individuals who have been selected in a controversial manner, which can be attacked first. Secondly, individuals who, according to the rules of these organisations, are very likely to be in conflict of interest. So, by giving you these letters, I also call on you to make not one, but two or several proposals on behalf of these organisations, as it is clear from the letters that the publicity of the procedure within the organisations is vitiated, to enter into a public procedure at least in the Committee on Budget and Finance, so that the Members of the National Assembly who will vote for these candidates can ask them questions and have a real choice from Parliament with regard to these two members, who, although allegedly, are ordinary members of the Court of Auditors, will in practice be extraordinary for two reasons. Because, first of all, with regard to them, there remains the possibility of working privately, to carry out consulting, intermediate, audit and any other activity. The law doesn't forbid them. Secondly, their votes will be decisive for all decisions taken by the Court of Auditors. You know that decisions are made with four out of five votes, so the voice of an ordinary member will also be decisive for extremely important decisions that will be taken in this body. Since the misconceptions of the Law, which adopted this parliamentary majority, will lie on you, I am trying, in this case, to be useful and help you to submit applications to work for an honest, independent, honest, objective and transparent experience and to protect you from violations of the Law in the nomination of these candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. That was more of an appeal than a question, wasn't it? - What's the line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I thought I'd speak very harshly because you said a lot of things that aren't true, but given the way you've finished, I'm going to soften the tone. However, I would like to say to you that your statement was generally unacceptable, as the law says, as we are currently discussing the proposal for the election of the President of the Court of Auditors and not of Members. So these things you'll tell us when it's time to choose members. Of course, in a private conversation with the candidate, you can also put the questions that interest you. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the amendments to the Law that we have adopted and, as the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly say, the public procedure is mandatory for the election of all Members. So both the members and the President and the Vice-Presidents will be discussed, as provided for in both the Law and the Rules of Procedure. There, too, you will be able to present these arguments that you have told us here. One more thing. Remember, as you are always very concerned about the proposals that come from the non-governmental sector, you are obviously very concerned about some of your considerations, keep in mind that the National Assembly is not obliged to accept them and vote them. In other words, we can also vote against them and then there is an obligation for these same two NGOs to make new proposals. So the National Assembly is not bound by the proposals to be made. If you decide, you can vote against the House or, of course, if they do not collect the necessary majority, there will be a new procedure and new proposals. So I think you can be calm here, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. National Representative Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Manolova, because I've been practicing horse sport, to tell you that a race with one horse is not done. However, it is normal for the ruling parties to come up with one application anyway. But there are four other parties in opposition here. Why didn't you offer yourself a candidacy so we could have a debate now to prove which candidate was better so we could have a choice? You go out and criticize why the application was one. That's right, the race will be on one horse. Given that you do not have one, you should sit and only vote, not explain to us things that have already passed the rules of procedure, we have adopted the Law. The third part of your speech I have heard for the third time was the Law, one time the rules of procedure, now the third time. Sorry, but I turn on the TV in the morning; I come here, listen to you for 10 minutes; I come home at night. I open my cabinet with Maya Manolova. [[Noise and cheering on the right.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u63	Besides the last part, the previous part was more like a line to Mr. Volen Siderov, I think. People's representative Kancho Filipov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Manolova, I take only one of the letters you presented from the NGOs, i.e. from the Institute of Graduated Accountants in Bulgaria (IDEC), because I personally spoke with the IDES management and assured me that the procedure is fully respected. It is normal in any professional organisation to have tensions when one application is not satisfied to use other ways to express their disagreement. I think that at the moment, especially for the IDES, you are misled and to use the parliamentary stand for tension that exists between several organisations in the IDES. I think you're just fooled, especially for the IDES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. A hole, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u66	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! A Honourable colleague from Ruse, who replicated me, I would call for more respect for the candidate you raised because I did not call him a horse or a racehorse. I think that the only candidate for President of the Court of Auditors should enjoy more respect among those who propose it. Yeah, it would be normal to have another application. There was one that we were going to support, but anyway you gave up the race in advance, you agreed on the towers of parliament. All right! I understand the nervousness of reformers. You obviously expect some of the NGOs to come up with a proposal you have previously agreed on. My advice to you is to make it more intelligent and such funny rules as the existence of a non-serious conflict of interest do not appear with regard to the nomination and raising of this procedure. Of course I will make my objections now, because when they come to Parliament and are tabled by the future President, it will surely be too late. Knowing the discipline with which you vote both GERB and the accompanying parties, I doubt that any arguments I can get you out of the parliamentary tribune will affect you. When there is a political deal, a political bargain, when the Reformation bloc has received its portion, nothing can convince it to vote according to the rules. So I'm just not paying attention to your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova. To speak, the public representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have already heard several of the statements from the opposition and, notice, none of them affected the professional qualities of the candidate Tsvetan Tsvetkov. Why? Because he's an undisputed professional. His whole life, his entire biography has gone through financial control, financial audit, not political parties, no addictions. This makes him an undisputed and strong candidate for the post of President of the Court of Auditors. Given that the candidacy is professional, professional, with qualities, with experience, with independence, he's proven over the years that he hasn't gotten involved... It made a good impression that in those 15 minutes I was watching, two people from BSP went to him to congratulate him. That made a good impression on me. I am convinced that people who want a better working Court of Auditors, better control in Bulgaria, will support this application. Those who will not support are those who do not really want a working Court of Auditors, who want with each change of power to have a new composition, to be politically decorated, as has been often in the past, to be advisers to political persons, to have a serious political hue, which was bad practice. People, if we want to advance, reform Bulgaria, it is high time for the control bodies and regulatory bodies to be undisputed and professionally appointed. And this morning, we have an example like this. That is why the debate should not be misled into going in the direction they tried to put us in. You know, BSP colleagues who object to every subject are already starting to look like the lying shepherd. They object to everything and everyone, and when they do it in situations where the candidates are indisputable, it starts to devalue their words. Their words no longer weigh and mean much, because when you object to everything, those people who object to everything, and this does not concern, of course, all colleagues, and some colleagues from BSP, and not only from BSP, but also from other parliamentary groups, it devalues their overall weight and position. When you're against everything, at some point you're starting to look a little frivolous and inadequate to the situation. But I'm going back to the point: the application is professional. I just want some things from Mr. Tsvetkov's internship, which were not mentioned, to mention again. His whole life has passed in the field of control and auditing since 1988. State Financial Control, 1992 is again taking place in the State Financial Control Department at the Ministry of Finance, there is the Chief Financial Auditor, then became Head of the Department of Public Administration and the methodology of financial revisions in the budgetary enterprises. From 1996 to 1999, then Head of the Internal and Financial Audit Control Department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After that, colleagues, you know, is Director of ADPFC from 2000 to 2001, then is adviser to the Minister of Finance for Financial Control and External Audit, Head of the Internal Audit Unit, Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, member of the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Television, but again engaged in control issues. A whole career of audit and control. Absolutely professional application. We need these applications. It doesn't matter who's offering them. I'd like to congratulate Valeri Simeonov, who was a male. Look, we don't need another political battle to count our votes, and we need consolidation and unity if you want, when it comes to control and regulatory bodies. And when we see a very serious professional candidacy, it is better to support it than to have another political action here in Parliament, throwing non-essential arguments at it. Finally: I am convinced that the door of Tsvetan Tsvetkov will be open to all people, regardless of the group, who want strong control and a working Court of Auditors. We give a chance to stop this series of changes that came to power, what does he do first? First he goes to change the management of the Court of Auditors. With these professional assignments we make, we give this vicious practice a chance to end. A control institution, in order to be effective, has to work unburdened by the expectation that tomorrow will change power and the next shift will come again and the next councillors of political close persons and so on, what we have seen unfortunately in the past. So this is an essential step that we, fellow Members, are taking together today. I will therefore call once again on you: of course, it is right in this House to have any kind of opposition, but when we have a candidate whose professional qualities no one, not even our beloved BSP lady, dares question, let us stop politics, make a decision with great support, because this decision is in the right direction. If we want to change Bulgaria, we need to make working control bodies and regulatory bodies, and this only happens with the appointment of professionals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u70	Thank you for giving me the opportunity, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetkov, candidate for Chairman and, of course, Mrs. Goritsa Gruncharova, who is upstairs in the Gallery! I would like to tell you what the Court of Auditors is like. As a member of the State Financial Control, it was established in 1995, my direct head of territorial governance then became a member of the Court of Auditors. Half my colleagues went there. I can tell that 90% of the cast are people I've worked with and are currently there. Over the years, at least one or two members of the management have been people I know directly, and with others I have worked in neighbouring departments. It's been like this ever since. What is the defect of all the bodies that the National Assembly has chosen over the years, regardless of which of the types of authorities? That it is always the National Assembly that reproduces its political majority at the moment in those bodies that it elects. And since these bodies by mandate are longer than that of the National Assembly, at some point it turns out that these bodies are either burdened with unexpected political consequences, or unexpected strife, wishes to replace the leadership, reproaches. So today we are faced with a radically different situation. We will not reproduce a single majority. We will make a non-partisan, independent and authoritative body that will audit all other authorities. We expect this body to be stable and to have continuity, i.e. stability and continuity. Think about it, the desire that the two undisputed candidates with proven qualities that their internship has passed into the financial-control system, each significant to themselves weighing in their place, each one of them has walked the path of a vice-president, a chair in the control system itself, the sign that they are ready to work together, is the brightest proof that this time we will have continuity, we will have non-partyness and we will have one failure to influence their decisions. That is, whatever happens from now on, it will be clear that this body is elected by one majority and it is not entrusted with a specific political force. What would I like to say about the candidate we have right now? Mr. Martin Dimitrov said his entire internship had gone into the financial control system. And almost a decade has passed side by side with me. I worked with him myself. I will briefly list some of the sites that I have had the opportunity under his leadership or I myself, leading a team, sometimes of 36 people in the country, to perform: Bulgarian National Television, National Radio, Telegraph Agency, the division of the UBA and Government Hospital were very complex years, Boyana Residence, Council of Ministers, Ministry of Interior, National Intelligence Service, embassies. The first revision of customs at the time was important and significant, which was done by the current candidate for President of the Court of Auditors, and the next one I did. The most important revision, which was difficult when three governments were replaced, was a political power, a service cabinet, another was a state reserve and wartime reserves. We checked all the military equipment, which is being held unattended, medical reserve, weapons, food and so on, all of the country's hideouts, all of the underground and underground; the barter, Neftohim, oil against grain. There's a lot of reviews in this room, if they want to tell each other and label themselves as such. In this room there are many former ministers, former Deputy Prime Ministers and cabinet participants, which we have personally checked, revised, are now said to have been audited, and who know our attitude that we have not shown political biases, we have not written findings that must necessarily represent them in a bad light, and vice versa, that we have given them an opportunity to defend themselves. In this room there are two former ministers who were not ministers when we audited them with Mr. Tsvetkov, and we said to them: "You cannot get to the documents that acquitted you, but you tell us where you are we will find enough time, people and resources to find them so that the finding can be true and sustained. It all happened. Mr. Tsvetkov is a proven expert. His very desire to reach out and make continuity is clear proof that he will not play with political forces, that he will be an impartial leader of the institution, which is important to us to continue working, to enjoy public authority, and especially not to be burdened with any political expectations, but only with the professionalism that we want them to implement and show. I wish Mr. Tsvetkov good luck in the vote. I also call on you to vote for this man because he is qualified. As I said, I worked with him for a decade, and he didn't put any pressure on me, and he had the opportunity and conditions to do so many times. He's never allowed himself, and he hasn't changed over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is partly satisfied with the course of the selection procedure of the President of the Court of Auditors. I will recall what, at all stages of the adoption of the Law, during the adoption of the procedures and now until the adoption of the election of President, we have repeated in this House and in this platform, and in the Commission, the Court of Auditors is an extremely important body and the restoration of the stability of the Court of Auditors is our responsibility. I believe that we are moving towards restoring this stability step by step, albeit difficult, although this process does not end with the election of the President of the Court of Auditors. I will remind my fellow Members once again to make clear the responsibility of this House, regardless of who is in it, that the Court of Auditors was an independent and very stable body by 2010. In 2010, we, here in this Chamber, have actually violated the stability of this body and its independence, I can certainly say this. I won't dwell on who, how, and why, but it's the fact that we're all responsible for this. My personal opinion is that even the parliamentary group of GERB, which started this procedure in 2010, was misled by the then president whose mandate was running out and, in fact, the change of model, to say it in the right text, was to ensure a new mandate of the then President, who had no right to be re-elected by law. Thus began the instability in this extremely important control body of the country. We now have the responsibility to make this stability go back to normal. Even at the adoption of the Law on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I said that in this form it is not enough what is being done that there are many shortcomings in the Law and they are manifesting themselves today in the selection process, they will also manifest themselves in the selection of replacements. The rules for nominating and raising candidates from the two NGOs are not clearly defined, the rules by which we will adopt or will not accept are not clearly described. Thank God we adopted this amendment, under which, if we do not choose the current candidates, who will be given by the two NGOs, they will have the obligation to raise new ones. But that is not enough, too, and I appeal to the President of the Budget Committee and to all members, of course, and to Mr. Tsvetkov, if he is elected today, to really take this choice seriously from the two NGOs, because if we do not make such rules that we get the best applications from them, we will largely put instability in this body again. So this time, which we need to move towards restoring the independence and stability of the Court of Auditors, it can be said that it is in its midst. We will support the only candidate, not question his professional competence. We hope and believe that with the conditions that we will create and with the team that it will make, it will be able to restore the good name of the Court of Auditors, which is extremely necessary both for us and for our European partners. Let me say once again that it is extremely important how the other members of the Court of Auditors will be elected, especially by the two civil organisations. Remember, then we raised this question that their choice would raise the issue of conflict of interest. They are now asking themselves this question, and it cannot be so because these are the two professional organisations and the people who are related to them are working precisely in this system, the audit system, the accounting system, the control system. There is a way to overcome these obstacles, but we must have enough clear willpower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u74	My fellow Members, I will vote with a clear conscience for Mr. Tsvetkov's candidacy. I supported it last year when the Court of Auditors' predecessor was removed, and I support it now. I believe that he is an exceptional professional and a person with a very strong reputation in his own guild, which is most important, with a lot of experience, we have also heard the words of the previous colleagues, and I think that none of us has any dispute in this regard. At the same time, honourable Members, I would like to express my opinion that what we are witnessing today is a farce. We're witnessing exactly the backstage we wanted to escape from. We're witnessing a deal. What Mr. Valeri Simeonov said: "We are withdrawing our candidate against the commitment to become Vice-President of the Court of Auditors" is nothing but a trade of influence. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Under the Law of the Court of Auditors, the President proposes Vice-Presidents no Patriotic Fronts, no GERB, no other. Why did you make this deal behind the back of the Bulgarian voters? Let the President propose the people, and then, if you want, vote, or don't vote, in the National Assembly meeting. The colleague Martin Dimitrov here said he congratulated the Patriotic Front for the candidacy. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you should actually congratulate the DPS. [[Noise and lines.]] I congratulate my colleague, Yordan Tsonev, that they were able to impose their candidacy, they were able to twist the hands of GERB, they were able to twist the hands of the Patriotic Front, they were able to force the reformers to sit there and shake. [[Heckling]] Where is Radan Kanev now, to come out and explain how he will disband the vehicle? Where is it? What's happening today is "Sarnica 2" they rubbed your noses in it. [[GERB lines.]] That's what's happening, Mr. Tsvetanov! Go out and explain to the Bulgarian voters how this thing happened? What do you mean, you made this deal? In what way? After your foreign debt was voted, after your flat tax was voted on, the Court of Auditors is now voting on you! Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov doesn't deserve this thing at all. He's the victim in this situation. He had and has the full opportunity to create, I hope, a Court of Auditors with strong professionals, with a team chosen by him personally, with his responsibility, and not imposed on him by the Patriotic Front, by the DPS or by anyone else. For this, I will vote with a clear conscience today, I repeat, for Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, and when it comes to voting for the candidates of the Court of Auditors, I will not vote for Vice-President Gorica Gruncharova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u75	- What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would pass the generously ridiculous claims of my colleague Kadiev because I have a good attitude and a feeling towards him and his way of making politics, but because of the dignity and honor of those we choose, I will not pass these claims. Mr. Kadiev, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has never raised the candidacy of either Gorica Gruncharova or any of those we are talking about today. We were going to support Mr. Tsvetkov because, Mr. Kadiev, when you worked for Mr. Multigroup, I was the chairman of the Budget Committee of the Thirty Eighth National Assembly and with your candidacy, which you support with a pure heart Mr. Tsvetkov, I have worked on a project, one of which is the establishment of financial police in Bulgaria to deal with serious financial crimes. The two of us, as President of the Budget Committee and he as a member of the Working Group, brought this project within a few months to a bill. The Prime Minister then withdrew it at the last minute. Mr. Tsvetkov can tell you. I know his professional qualities well before you even knew him. That is why we stand behind it, because I have said before my parliamentary group that if we avoid the recurrences of the previous management of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Tsvetkov really has professional competence to take over its management. In my opinion, he is not responsible for the events at that time, as the Court of Auditors was managed alone by one person who compromised himself in this Chamber. I have guaranteed to the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms that I know this man and have worked with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u78	Dear Mr. Tsonev, in the period 1992 - 1995, as a graduate student, I was a journalist in the newspaper 24 hours. Then, at the request of Dimitar Ivanov, Vice President of "Multigroup" I wrote the famous article about the Gusteer and the queue, which was a job within an hour. Twenty years later there is still talk about this article, which to some extent is an evaluation of my work, albeit behind the scenes, as the official author was Ilija Pavlov and he was the person who put his name under the article without ever seeing it. It doesn't matter what it's called if it's my job for the Multigroup. It's about the Court of Auditors. The very fact that I have mentioned several names.. did you notice that neither Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov nor Mr. Valeri Simeonov nor anyone from the Reformation Block came out to disprove these words.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u79	Mr. Tsvetanov asked for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u80	What's happening right now is Sarnitsa 2. You were able to rub them all in the face. Ashkolsun! I'm taking my hat off to you! That's how it's done! We can only learn from you in this regard. I wish Mr. Tsvetkov to choose his team in person, my only wish, and we will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. For a personal explanation, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I don't know why you're setting an example for Sarnitza because I think Sarnitza is most embarrassing to give her an example. You have 27 voters who voted for your municipal list. Since you say that there is hardly any backstage in the way the President of the Court of Auditors will be elected, I can tell you that in the last two days in informal talks with representatives of BSP left Bulgaria, you have, as far as I know, a political decision to support Gorica if it is nominated for President of the Court of Auditors, and at present you are part of BSP left Bulgaria. What's the backstage anyway? That you stand behind a candidacy and come out here and say that it participates in some scenarios where some positions are allocated, some posts from the given parliamentary groups. I believe that the Patriotic Front stood very clearly and categorically behind Gorica's candidacy. We very clearly and categorically stood behind the candidacy of Tsvetan Tsvetkov. You know very well that we are seeking political agreement on this body, which you have made for a year and a half with the changes you have made for the Court of Auditors, into a political body. That is exactly what we want to avoid, and that is why we are doing this debate. We wanted to stay out of this controversy of this opposition that you're betting on. And the fact that you worked at the Multigroup, as a matter of fact, I didn't know it, now I understand it. Thank you for this information that we receive every day in the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kadiev, perhaps you weren't in the Chamber when I set out the reasons for the change in the decision of the Patriotic Front Group. The reasons were that we had a good opportunity to get acquainted with the two candidates, especially Mr. Tsvetkov's, and we decided that it is pointless to turn the election of the President of the Court of Auditors into a political defeat. I'm repeating it for you. Looks like you weren't in the room, so I won't repeat the other arguments. With regard to the accusations you've made, I would recommend less conspiracy novels to read, less criminal. A little that affects you mentally. You see conspiracies everywhere. I hope you don't see them in your family. [[Laughter and raging]] where you definitely have certain conflicts, voting for the Energy Act, but this is a separate topic. I want to tell you: do not try to color the debates with your personal understandings and perceptions. Regarding who twists our hands, I want to tell you that no one was born to Valeri Simeonov and the Patriotic Front will be able to twist their hands. Do I make myself clear?! And that's where you're wrong! The references to the DPS just leave them without comment. [[Applause from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Tsvetkov, come and say a few words.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me first to thank the political formations which nominated me as President of the Court of Auditors and give me the opportunity to assure both them and the other political parties represented in the Bulgarian Parliament that if I am elected President of the Court of Auditors, I and my team, who will also be elected by the National Assembly as Vice-President and Members, will make every effort to enable the Court of Auditors to be an independent and impartial supreme audit institution that works and contributes to good management of public finances and is not used as a repressive machinery with a sensional focus. I am fully aware that this cannot be achieved if there is not a strong team of Vice-Presidents and Members. I assure you that if I am elected President, I will hold the necessary debates in order to be able to select an appropriate composition to ensure security, stability and, above all, continuity in the work of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetkov. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the following: ? RESPONSIBILITY? appointing the President of the Court of Auditors The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 12 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED He elected Tsvetan Lilov Tsvetkov as Chairman of the Court of Auditors. Please, honourable Members, vote. Vote 168 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 21. Tsvetan Tsvetkov was elected President of the Court of Auditors. [[Applause.]] Mr. Tsvetkov, you are welcome to take an oath and sign an oath sheet. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u88	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the performance of the functions entrusted to the Court of Auditors by guiding myself by the principles of independence, objectivity and good faith in fulfilling the obligations conferred on me by the law. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u89	Congratulations! We move on to the next item on the agenda that we started yesterday at the end of the plenary: ANNUAL PROGRAMMING OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR THE QUESTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (2015)). The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer. Before we continue with the debates, to remind you of the remaining time of the parliamentary groups: GERB. 30 min., BSP left Bulgaria Are there any speeches, honourable Members of Parliament? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u90	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To the Report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, and in particular to the draft decision of our National Assembly, I would like to make an addition which we discussed in the Committee on Education and Science under the Presidency of Mrs. Damyanova, but there I did not formulate the proposal clearly enough and it was not formed so that it could be included at the moment in the report of the Commission, headed by colleague Tanchev. It is about the fact that it would be appropriate to add another sphere, if judged by fellow Members of the National Assembly. As they are listed in Svetlin Tanchev's report on spheres after the field of agriculture, for example to have another sphere, in the field of education and science, under number 31 to include support and promote the development of education and science. Depending on the opportunities given to you by the Rules, Mr President, at the very least, which in this way my speech is achieved is to be included in the protocol that leads our esteemed stenographer, but if it is possible, according to the Rules, to be included as part of the decision, I think it would be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u91	Would you mind giving me your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u92	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u93	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u94	My fellow Members, I would like to bring some clarity to the subject at hand. Since yesterday, I was impressed that there is obviously a mix between two different things that the National Assembly voted on. One is the Annual Programme, which the National Assembly voted in and expressed its positions, which we are currently considering, and the Annual Programme of the Council of Ministers, which we are about to consider. I would like to bring in some clarification so that there is no mistake and we do not think that, in fact, in any of the acts of the National Assembly, we can assume ambiguities and inaccuracies. According to the provisions of art. 114, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which yesterday Mrs Tsacheva read clearly, it becomes clear that the Annual Work Programme contains a list of the draft acts of the European Union institution on which the National Assembly is monitoring and monitoring. Please bear in mind this when proposing that individual points be included in this programme. General wording of topics that seem interesting and important in principle, for the European Union do not belong in this programme, as this does not lead to the explicit actions scheduled in the following Members of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly, namely: Art. 115. (1) The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly a framework position on the draft act of the institution of the European Union, included in the Annual Work Programme under art. 114, para. 3 within three weeks of the decision of the Council on European Affairs to the Council of Ministers to approve the allocation of the act. The purpose of the provision is for the National Assembly to have sufficient time to control the subsidiarity and proportionality of the draft act, according to the orders of art. 117 of our Rules. In order not to waste plenary time, I shall pay particular attention to you in art. 117, para. 2: The Standing Committees shall examine the draft legislative act to comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, subject to the time limit laid down in art. 6 of Protocol No 2 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is within this weekly period of subsidiarity that all parliaments are allowed to participate in the legislative process at European Union level. The draft directives and regulations can then be modified, processed and even withdrawn under the influence of a sufficiently large number of national parliaments. I have the feeling that there is some confusion among some of you, or rather a mixture of the above described concrete steps and procedures with other procedures in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, namely from art. 122-124. I will read them to you to see that the place of such proposals made yesterday by different colleagues is not in this Annual Programme. Rule 122 of our Rules says that: The National Assembly may hold a hearing of the Prime Minister on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in forthcoming meetings of the European Union. Article 123 says that: the Council of Ministers in the implementation of Article 123. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution informs the National Assembly on issues relating to the obligations arising for the Republic of Bulgaria from its membership in the European Union. It is under these provisions that the plenary can have a dialogue with the Prime Minister and the executive as a whole on topics of great importance for our country on the European agenda. Such are undoubtedly the enlargement of the European Union and the Trade Agreement between the Union and the United States. The points of the Annual Work Programme, on the other hand, should not, as a rule, be discussed in plenary at all, but in the committees. In the end, the European Affairs and Control Committee has the task of drawing up a summary report. This is exactly what was presented yesterday to our attention. In this summary report, there were no comments during the Commission, so, fellow Members, I ask that we really stick to the level of members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Hubenova, I cannot agree with your presentation because the topic was discussed in committees, was covered in the report, even if you remember, a proposal was made in committee to include such a point. Such a proposal is not some self-target or self-indulgence of the representatives of a certain political force in the Commission, but comes from the point at stake in Juncker's plan, which you know is currently being discussed and is one of the topics that has been set by the future Presidency of Latvia of the European Union to conclude such an agreement. This topic is normal and logical to be dealt with, including by the National Assembly, and not only by the government. For this reason, a proposal was made in the Commission itself to supplement the National Assembly's Annual Programme so that the Members of the National Assembly can obtain more clarity about what is happening and what is about to be signed. Information regarding the forthcoming agreement is at least mandatory for us as the MPs. For this reason, I think it is quite appropriate for a similar point to enter the National Assembly's Annual Programme. I think it's reasonable for the MPs to support her. Moreover, no grounds were put forward for this matter in the discussion in the Commission. On the contrary, the comments were to be agreed with the other committees, but to my surprise, the report entered directly into the Chamber without being discussed with the committees that have cashiership on this subject. I hope that the leadership of the National Assembly will put to the vote such a change and that the Members of the National Assembly will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. One more line. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I think the procedures became clear yesterday. To translate them into an understandable language, of course, we are talking about two things. One is Bulgaria's annual participation programme, which is a government programme. We expect the Prime Minister to come here and present it and we will discuss it. In fact, a real discussion will not work, as the procedure does not imply a real discussion, but let us say our opinion on this issue. I hope this is coming, although it should have preceded today's discussion. Secondly, what we are doing today is approving a National Assembly Programme on Bulgaria's participation in decision-making at European level. Here I'd like to clarify this. Firstly, you are talking about the need to include only acts that are to be proposed or discussed in the European Union. Yes, I believe that the Transatlantic Investment Partnership is exactly the kind of act. It is in the priorities of the Latvian Presidency and I do not see any problem. I don't know why you're worried and I don't know why you don't want it included. I think it's right for him to join us. Secondly, we have already allowed a communication from the European Commission on Neighbourhood Policy to be included in the Programme on a proposal from the External Commission, for example. This is not a legislative act either, but we have agreed that this must be discussed by the relevant committee. Speaking of enlargement of the European Union, I can formulate it a little more precisely: the European Commission's reports on the progress of candidate countries in the process of preparing for accession to the European Union. What if this formulation is more accurate? A progress report is much more important than a Commission communication. I'd give you another argument. For example, in the section "Social issues" we have already written down and are ready to vote on the implementation of the guarantee. That is, I would not accept your argument that, here in this Programme, we must include exclusively and only legislative acts. I suggest you accept our proposals from yesterday. I am also inclined to accept Mr. Veliv's proposal because it also makes sense. I see no reason why the Education Committee should not follow all the processes that will happen this year in the field of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Third line? I won't. Mrs. Hubenova, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u100	The statements of my colleagues from the Committee on European Affairs prove once again that we speak in different languages. Mr. Ivanov, what you said was discussed and proposed for the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in decision-making of the European Union. There we discussed the proposals made by colleagues from the Patriotic Front, supported by you. As far as the Commission report is concerned, which we are dealing with today [[BSP LB lines]] If you'd like from a place not to replicate me, that's a fact. I think Mr. Tanchev is here to confirm it. Then there were people from the Council of Ministers. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u101	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u102	Mr. Bojinov, I answer Mr. Ivanov's line, so please don't ask me what the argument is. The dispute may be purely procedural, but I think that by wanting to increase the authority of the National Assembly, we need to argue in order to produce acts and things that are truly sustained. Mr. Ivanov, then, if you remember, I think that Mr. Vigenin was also present at this meeting, we agreed that there is no obstacle in the Annual Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the decision-making process of the European Union to include the proposed points, but after being examined in the portfolio committees, respectively in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Policy. I think we were all solidarity then around this decision. I don't see an argument that we have to keep going because we imagine things from different perspectives. There are enough people in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds who could confirm what disputes we have had inside. I ask that your proposal be refined and proposed to the relevant committees. I'm finishing my coat with this. Yesterday it became clear that this Programme is open and when these proposals of yours are cleared and passed in accordance with the procedures, there is no obstacle to being submitted to the Annual Programme. And I don't think I could have made it any clearer. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. Any other speeches? Mr. Enchev, come in. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When we look at the National Assembly's Annual Programme on European Union issues, as I understand it, the Committee on European Affairs is an importer, we cannot escape an actual event directly affecting the Bulgarian Parliament. I mean... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u105	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u106	I am referring to a letter from the Hungarian Parliament to the parliaments of the European Union, including the Bulgarian Parliament, sent on 10 March this year. I suppose this letter should be located in the Office of the President of the Bulgarian Parliament Mrs. Tsacheva, but since it has not been submitted to us so far, I allow myself, in the time provided by the Rules, to read you some of it. It concerns all of us and, above all, the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds, as this letter must enter into the National Assembly's Annual Programme. The letter was sent by the Hungarian Parliament to the Member States of the European Union expressing concerns about the potential damage of the Transatlantic Agreement. Hungary is addressing national parliaments for the exchange of information, I stress this, and a broad discussion of the expected effects of the Agreement. I'm reading you part of the letter: With the participation of representatives of the parliamentary parties represented in the Hungarian Parliament, the potential environmental, economic and social advantages and disadvantages of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership were discussed. As a result of the debate, we have come to the conclusion that the Agreement carries significant risks to the Hungarian economy, society and the environment, which needs to be assessed whether potential benefits can compensate for potential shortcomings. A debate was also held on the topic at the National Council for Sustainable Development of Hungary. It covers all key areas and sectors of business and social area. The National Sustainable Development Council also concluded that further negotiations by Hungary on the Transatlantic Agreement pose risks in a number of areas, as the question is also not clarified: will there be ratification at national level? Here I open a clamp and say, this question also concerns all of us: will there be ratification on Bulgarian level? Both the government and the opposition in Hungary continue the text of the letter, with concerns about the content and future impact of the Transatlantic Partnership. Less Hungarians believe that the Agreement can help solve the economic problems of the European Union. On the basis of these conclusions, as President of the Committee on Sustainable Development of the Hungarian National Assembly, I appeal to the national committees of the Member States of the European Union dealing with this issue, to examine the overall impact of the Agreement and to ensure that Member States are fully aware of its potential consequences over time, I find it necessary to take steps to prevent common European problems that can still be avoided by exchanging information at European Union level, which will be supported by national debates and social consultations. Respectfully, Benedek Salay. This is what is, honourable Members, also a topic of debate in the Committee on European Affairs, and why not in plenary? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The interests of Bulgaria and the worries in the Bulgarian society are no different than those which Velizar Enchev read that they are worried and interested in Hungarian society. The seriousness of the problem and the inability of the ruling majority to look into these challenges to the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian people are the real reason to seek pathetic procedural justifications so as not to include this issue in the program we are dealing with. Dear Mrs. Hubenova, what you have read as rules does not create any formal reasons to accept Mr. Vigenin's proposal to include this point in the National Assembly's Annual Programme. That's not the problem. It is no secret to anyone that the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria has been an employee of the US services for four years. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] He speaks on behalf of Bulgaria that we will accept this Agreement without question. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Kuneva says that we have an interest and will sign this Agreement. At a debate that took place here, it became clear that there was no analysis. [[GERB lines.]] She's not on the program? [[Noise and lines.]] It is said that your elected government is ready to accept the interests of the United States without analyzing the impact on Bulgaria, the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian people, ecology and competitiveness, the admission of our GMOs market, ignoring the Moratorium for shale gas extraction and the technology of Fracking. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't shake your hand because you only recognize your inability to discuss and defend the interests of Bulgaria. Did you hear the Hungarian parliamentarians text? Have you heard the call to take an opinion on this issue? Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a formal proposal to put Christian Vigenin's proposal to include this issue in the National Assembly's Annual Programme. What will be Bulgaria's position in ratifying the Agreement will be with an explicit mandate of the National Assembly. Moreover, the country currently presiding over the European Parliament, the European Council, I am correcting, has included as Priority 2 the consideration of this issue and the finalisation of negotiations between the European Union and the United States. How do you think you can rewrite it without parliament's position behind the people's backs? Not gonna happen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Strong noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] I suggest that you vote and include this issue in the Annual Programme. I see... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u109	We have such a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u110	Not the one who made you an associate professor, but the one who decides the fates of Bulgaria! [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? Mr. Tanchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u112	Dear colleagues, Mr. Enchev! I take the floor to make a line. I've been meaning to make a statement, but I think we've had a lot of repeating.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u113	Mr. Bojinov spoke. Mr. Bozhinov made a statement, which means you're making a line for him right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u114	Great. We can see that the theme "the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement, and education, are all important topics, undoubtedly. And in the Commission we had no discussion about whether these topics were important to Bulgaria and whether we should have an opinion, but there is a proper order in which these things should happen. We see that there are different opinions as to what our state's opinion on this agreement should be. And that's why I'm saying this document is a work document. That's not the final version. We can complete it next week, but let this debate take place in the committee itself on the proper course and come to the Committee on European Affairs. We'll turn it on right away. Absolutely! I repeat that this is a priority, but let it happen in due order and let us really speak these and the opinion of Bulgaria to be one and not to argue in plenary and to waste our time in retailism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u115	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bozhinov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You cannot, with procedural proposals and moves, divert the inclusion of this crucial issue for Bulgaria on the agenda. I will quote you part of the American President's speech in his last speech. On this point, he says: If 95% of consumers in the world live beyond the borders of the United States, why not write the rules in such a way that those 95% consumers who live beyond the borders of America pay for our prosperity?How frankly, how clearly the President of the United States defines his interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u117	In C. Did you read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u118	Why does he say that we should let others write the rules on which we must stand up for our interests?It may be arrogant, but it is clear as protecting the national interests of the United States. How will you explain to me that you must pass through your committee, honourable Members, in order to be able to pronounce the plenary?! Who in the parliamentary republic stands higher than this quorum than 240 MPs, so you will offer to pass through your committee to see if it will enter here?! There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to include this issue in the Annual Programme. And you have to rule with.... or not................................................................................................... This will also be made public to the Bulgarian society sooner or later!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u120	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, let us concentrate on what is proposed today to be voted by the National Assembly's decision, in which it decides to adopt the following annual programme on European Union issues. There is a four-page text that, if I give it to an impartial person, maybe one of you will get meningitis because this text is written insanely. Mr. Tanchev, did you write this? Just go to some spelling lessons and Bulgarian law speech, because what you have offered us is a crazy text. It can't be said that the National Assembly will exercise its powers under one or more Members and will subject the following activities to parliamentary observations: a message concerning the European............................................................................ Message, Mr. Tanchev, not activity. These things should at least be taken into account for the heavily bureaucratic language in which you have offered us this document. But I'm getting to the point. What exactly is it that we're offered? In these 4 pages, we are offered to decide, in principle, to approve from now on everything that has come from Brussels, absolutely uncritical, unreserved and without subjecting it to analysis and doubt. Here I will focus on the concerns of some Members about the Transatlantic Agreement. In fact, it's a free trade agreement with the United States. That's his name. Dear colleagues who are worried, do not worry. It'll come in. Your point will enter and come when Mr Juncker arrives. Because, look at the report of the Commission, written by Mr. Tanchev. It says: The planned new initiatives of Jean Claude Juncker are the following 10 areas: new incentives for jobs, growth of investments. That sounds really good, but how do you plan on doing that? Absolutely vague! One digital market and so on. And.................................................................................. 6 A reasonable and balanced Free Trade Agreement with the United States. Here's your offer. It will enter, and when the time is right, it will be inserted here and very quietly remember the word will be pushed and there will be no discussion even like people. So that's what this is all about. It's already decided, upstairs, from the Masonic Lodge. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] A stronger player on the world stage to become the European Union. I'm very interested in this point of Mr Juncker's intentions. I would tell Mr. Borisov, who is prime minister when he meets with him, to say to him: "Yes, the European Union must become a stronger participant, but for this purpose must be released from Washington's dictatorship. Is he gonna do it? Mr Juncker hasn't given any such information yet. There are a number of intentions listed here that are too common. How do we vote on common intentions? For example, a proposal in the field of legal matters:.. Proposal for an Interinstitutional Agreement for better................................................................................................ What does that mean?! What do you mean, better? Between what institutions? How? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, These are general desirable texts which, by voting them here, absolutely do not mean anything. They mean one thing: that we agree to accept from now on, because you will then refer to this vote and say: "Wait, but didn't we adopt the Annual Programme? Why are you against this? Why don't you want a Transatlantic agreement? Why don't you want some GMOs? ..which, by the way, is on the last spot here, in the field of agriculture. 30 A review of the decision-making process on.................................................................................. Whoa! What does that mean? Review of the decision-making process! So far, we have a moratorium on the National Assembly. This was initiated by the Ataka. Now this thing's probably going to audit, is it? And when the whole decision that is being proposed is being voted on, I say to you again, tomorrow, the GMOs and shale gas lobbyists will refer to this decision, they will say, "Wait, the House has adopted!" What do you want?Here, this is the trap you are currently offering us. We will therefore, of course, vote against. There is no other way to vote than against this decision. It looks very godly. There are lyrics in it that sound nice. I've already spelled them out. "Encouraging economic growth and employment." Great, only for this purpose there should be a reindustrialization of Bulgaria. When we proposed it, here you put everyone in one voice: "Oooh, how will we restore "Hymko"?! How will we restore the Kremikovtsi?! That's ridiculous! These are socialist mastodons. How will economic growth be made?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u121	With investments! With foreign investment!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u122	How exactly is this going to happen when there was a Verheugen who cheated so that we could close down the nuclear power plant and now cut first and second block?! All Bulgaria's power plants have been shut down and we will already be left without nuclear power. Over 3,000 businesses were destroyed and the European Union was then silent, absolutely tolerant. We will now pursue economic growth. In what way will this happen in the absence of investments, given that Bulgaria is the most vulnerable in terms of EU funds, because we have the lowest EU funds per capita, even lower than Estonia and Latvia?! [[Reply of the National Representative Svetlin Tanchev.]] Don't worry, Mr. Tanchev, you'll have a chance. You're as impatient as a Komsomol meeting. Don't be in such a hurry. I know you want to salute, report what a good Euro-Atlantic you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u123	That's not in the program!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u124	We are now set before adopting a decision that is a trap. Tomorrow, this decision will be referred to in order to adopt the transatlantic agreement in question. What is it? I'll tell you in just two sentences. That means tomorrow, when we decide to take the salaries here. [[Replications of MPs Silvia Hubenova and Tsveta Karayancheva]] , an international corporation will condemn us because the agreement means that the corporations will enslave the Bulgarian people and all European peoples so that they can not raise their wages so that they can not have strikes so that they can not fight for their labour rights and be condemned in an international court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u125	This is a statement on behalf of the Parliament group!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u126	This is the transatlantic agreement. You have to say it clearly when you're talking. The American president is chasing his interest. The question is, where is our interest? Our interest must be protected here in this room. I don't see that right now! I am pleased that I have aroused an interest and a desire to speak in my fellow Members. However, my advice is: not to go out here to pick on each other, but to go out and say exactly how the Bulgarian interest will be protected in these common wishing texts that you offer us. There's no way to protect him! Nice and easy to land, because here I see some people who haven't been in this room. I was here on 12 January 2007 when the adoption of the Union was voted on. Here's my statement. [[shows document]] . I'm going to multiply it and leave it on your mailboxes so you can see how accurate I was, how clearly I predicted things and how consistent I am! I said then that we cannot enjoy the fact that we are cut in quotas so that we will soon shut down capacities, not produce agricultural products in which we are traditional. Is that a fact today? It's a fact! Do we import from abroad and vegetables? We're bringing in! Do we import anything from abroad to eat? We're bringing it in. It's a fact! You can't deny it. Then I said not to be so happy with the government, not to celebrate the cut quotas, the closed nuclear energy, the liquidated army, the liquidated industrial capacities and so on. I said that our accession to the European Union was a geopolitical gesture and an act by Brussels, not a necessity, because Bulgaria needs it. They need it as a front line, and now we see it. Is that a fact? It's a fact too! Then I also said that from the "Attack" we will strongly oppose Turkey's entry into the European Union; we will work to transform the Union from a pyramid and totalitarian structure in Europe of nations and generations; we will fight double standards. Did you get them today? He's got it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u127	Mr. Siderov, please, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u128	We will fight to include Christian values because they were later rejected by the European Constitution by a report; we will work to build a single European security system that is not run by Washington; we will fight to preserve nuclear reactors. We keep doing it, only you think about what you're doing today. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u129	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Tanchev. Personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u130	A personal explanation. That's right. Dear Mr. Siderov, at the very least I want to pick a fight and therefore I will save myself some of the epithets that occurred to me during your speech. I'm not gonna tell you again. 114 of the Rules of Procedure on which this report is drawn up. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds has been involved, but this is a report drawn up by all committees. We accept the proposals from the various committees, summarize them and present this one to the National Assembly. Two. The fact that a subject is a priority for our country does not mean that we have expressed a position on this priority, for example, our priority is GMOs and the way in which these products are administered in the European Union does not mean that we are.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This does not change our position on the moratorium. I absolutely don't think we've made a decision. Thirdly, this document, I repeat, is not a final version of something that will not change. As soon as next week, if you work adequately, consistently, you make your proposals through the committees, they will reach the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and there is no reason not to include them. I don't understand why you're trying to fool people right now. This is exactly the way we are all together, adequately, following the rules to stand up for our positions. Otherwise, we fight for the petty one, and so we really can't have a single position on the European Union and stand up for our priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u131	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. For speech the people representative Ivan Ivanov. [[National Representative Velizar Enchev wants the floor for a reply.]] We've finished the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u132	Mr President, honourable Members, let me bring some clarity to the discussion we are currently having. The project, which we are discussing today, because different opinions have been heard, and it is important to hear it, is certainly discussed in the Commission and is noted in the report that it is in line with the priorities of the triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This project included the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union adopted by the Council of Ministers. It is also in line with the work programme of the European Commission for 2015. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 of the European Commission's work programme is very clearly written: a reasonable and balanced free trade agreement with the United States is being put in place at the moment. "I do not know why any procedural attempts are being made at the moment to drop this point from our programme, because this year this Agreement is likely to be adopted by our MPs, at least in order to avoid any speculation that is being made from the stands, and any suggestion that is not being adopted by the right or being made by another political force, to be cleared. The information of the MPs will in no way harm Bulgaria's participation in these processes. On the contrary, it will enrich them. For this reason, I call on the MPs once again to support the introduction of this point into the National Assembly's Annual Programme, as this fully corresponds to and corresponds at least to the policy carried out by the European Commission. I do not see why the Bulgarian Parliament should be anything different or not interested in the policies currently being implemented by the government in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? There are no lines. I'm calling a 30-minute break. After the holiday there are speeches by Dimitar Bayraktarov and Gemma Grozdanova. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u134	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting with the debates on the Report on the Annual Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues. Before that, a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, today is March 26th "Trace Day." This day is celebrated every year as part of the Bulgarian war glory, because on this date 102 years ago the Edirne fortress was taken, but it is also celebrated as a day of all those Thracian Bulgarian martyrs who were killed or banished into a free Bulgaria by the Turkish state. On this day, the feat of the Bulgarian warriors who fell in Adrianople and in the Thracian fields was honored, as well as the memory of the thousands of Bulgarians - Thracian refugees who found shelter within free Bulgaria. The attack of the Edirne fortress began on 24 March 1913 and in just two days the Bulgarian army tore up the fences, broke through the front line at the forts of Aivaz Baba and Aji Uglu and took over the considered impregnable until then Adrianople fortress. In this attack the Bulgarian army lost 1316 killed and 6329 wounded. But 13 Turkish generals, 2,000 officers, 50 thousand soldiers with 413 guns were captured during the capture of the Edirne fortress. The Fortress Adrianople was taken over by the Second Bulgarian Army under the command of Lieutenant General Nikola Ivanov. On the occasion of the capture of Adrianople in his congratulations from 26 March 1913 to the troops of the Bulgarian Army of the Eastern Sector, Bulgarian General Georgi Vazov stated the following: Officials, officers and soldiers, you have covered Bulgaria with glory and our army with a laurel wreath. The world has to wonder at us, the brilliant sons of Bulgaria, that we could take over one of the strongest fortresses in Europe in 13 hours. I'm proud to be your boss, I'm proud to be Bulgarian. Today perhaps we should answer the question of the abilities of the modern Bulgarian Army and not whether it can take over a foreign fortress, but whether it can fulfil its constitutional obligations.. defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. This requires both responsibility and more spirit and heart in the Members of the National Assembly, when discussing the topics of the Bulgarian Army, to be adequate so that our army can carry out the minimum set in our Constitution. On this day, however, the tragic fate of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians from Thrace is noted in Bulgaria. After 16 June 1913, when Bulgaria entered the Union War, it was attacked by the Turkish army, which entered Eastern Thrace, violating the line of the London treaty Midia. The local Bulgarian population is subjected to total genocide. I'll give you just a few examples: - on 2 July in the village of Bulgarkoy 1450 people were killed, of which 1100 people women and children; - the entire village of Enice was killed on 8 July; - during the reconstruction of Adrianople the Turkish army and Bashibozuk massacre 521 people Bulgarian citizens and so is everywhere Turkish troops and Bashibozuk pass. Since some would say that this is a long time ago and that we are dealing with fictional facts, I will quote some data made not by Bulgarian historians, although many of them have written on this topic, and I will quote facts and data from the international then poll Carnegie Commission, which is precisely investigating the war crimes committed during the Balkan and Inter-Union War. According to Karnegiev, the polling commission in Adrianople Thrace from Turkish troops and Bashibozuk were killed between 50 and 60 thousand civilians - Christians, mostly Bulgarians; 200 thousand were banished within the borders of then Bulgaria, fleeing this carnage that followed them; 108 villages were completely destroyed; 10 934 houses were burned; over 5,000 women, children and men were raped. I gave some of the examples, specifically a village by village. I won't go into details. My fellow Members, this is a genocide which has not yet been condemned by either Europe or the civilized world. Genocide against one people "The Bulgarian." In just 20 days in this room we will talk about Armenian genocide, but we need to connect the two things because in the period 1913 the first victims of the Turkish authorities were the Bulgarians in Eastern Thrace, then followed the Armenians and Assyrians. The Bulgarian Parliament can no longer remain silent on this issue and comply with the political situation and what our neighbors will say. They have nothing to say because they themselves are called Neo-Essmans, practically the heirs of those who committed this genocide. In 1925, the Angora Treaty between Bulgaria and Turkey was signed, according to which these 200,000 banished Bulgarians from Thrace were due compensation. For conjunctural reasons after 9 September this question was not raised. Again, for conjunctural reasons after 10 November was again not put by any Bulgarian president, by any Bulgarian prime minister, by any Bulgarian minister. Otherwise, we walked and bowed and apologized for the rebirth process where there were 4-5 victims. We're talking about 50,000 victims here, and they're established by an international committee of inquiry, not the newspapers. The Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament mostly have a duty to the heirs of these 200,000 banished Bulgarians to finally receive, a hundred years later, the compensation for their properties and their property, which was seized and is now enjoyed by the modern Turkish state. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not saying this to put any pressure on you. I'm just gonna ask you one question. In our parliament there is a parliamentary group that very much loves to moralize and to talk to us about human rights, to talk to us about xenophobia, racism and whatnot, blaming the Bulgarian people not just one or two of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u136	Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u137	Three, right. I will give you just one example: in the case of 50-60 thousand killed Bulgarians who find shelter in Bulgaria, their heirs, in the case of so many raped women, children and men, in the case of such destroyed property, let someone come out and point out an example from which these 200 000 refugees in Bulgaria have killed an ethnic Turk. There's no such thing! Yes, you are! This is the example of tolerance, not the buying words that some people are trying to push us into this parliament. This is the point, by honoring the greatness of the Bulgarian army with the capture of the Edirne fortress, respecting the victims of the Bulgarian people in Eastern Thrace, we must learn to use the historical facts not to seek political dividends, and these historical facts and events should serve us as a lesson on how not to repeat the mistakes of the previous Bulgarian politicians and these mistakes to be corrected, not forgotten. That's the point of celebrating Thrace Day March 26th. Thank you, fellow Members. [[The people of the FTA are standing up; shouts: "Bravo!" and applause from the FTA.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u138	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! With great attention, I listened to those who spoke about this really serious subject. I dare say that what the colleague Sylvia Hubenova shared that there is a misunderstanding on this subject, I would say there is a great deal of disinterest. Why is there disinterest, colleagues, when we are talking about this really important subject? In order to be justified and to make it clear to you, I think it is appropriate that we speak and comment on this subject, that we also use real numbers. In order not to extend to all points of the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme, which is today on our attention to discussion, I will refer only to the first point of this programme, which is with the following text: "New incentives for jobs, growth and investment. Let's do a small and short flashback, in fact, which place is Bulgaria on youth employment at the last place. The country with the highest unemployment rate among young people. There is an operational programme called Human Resources Development. If there was interest in colleagues, they should know that in the 2007-2013 programming period, it would already include 2014 funds of 2 billion under this programme. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. lv. The amount paid is 87% or 2 billion. 64 million. lv. What's the score? The result of this programme, as we are talking about stimulating employment, colleagues, are: 70 thousand jobs for this programming period. No less money is provided for in the next programming period 2015-2020. I ask, however, are these conspirators against the absorption of these funds, of those billions that are so necessary? Or do they have something else like a vision? We're talking about investments. You accepted foreign investments in January 2013 make up 58 million. lv. Only that's 58 million. BGN, honourable Members, are not any investments, they are transferring money from one to the other pocket of offshore companies. We are talking about sustainable jobs, Bulgarian production. Some even raised the issue of genetically modified foods. However, when in 2011 In February, as an investigative journalist, I made the first show in Bulgaria about genetically modified organisms, the next day SKAT TV was attended by cocktails. That was the result. However, no one is saying that to date in Bulgaria there is a single laboratory that can examine the food for the presence of GMOs. It's in Sofia. In order for there to be a second, third, fifth, tenth in the district cities, European funding is needed. Well, I'm asking: is that what you're up against? We are talking about investments, that food in Bulgaria was imported from abroad, yes. It is because, first of all, Bulgarian production has had an outstanding shortage of qualified and well-trained personnel in this field for several years. By the way, it's good when we talk about these things, let's say another statistic, which is no less important. Let's take, for example, what is Bulgaria's trade with Russia for 2013. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. import of products, mainly energy products from Russia to Bulgaria, otherwise referred to as exports of 10 billion fresh resources from the Bulgarian economy against 900 million exports to Bulgaria! Well, if it's positive, any normal economist will tell you that there is no greater imbalance in this area. However, it turns out that the biggest exporter of Bulgarian goods is the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian producers precisely for the European Union. So, I'm asking, are you against this?
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u140	Mr. Bajraktarov, excuse me, but we are discussing the Annual Work Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u141	Yes, I understand, ma'am... I'm just giving some pointers that are important to have an understanding on the subject. So these are the real things in numbers and we can't close our eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u142	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a feeling that either we don't understand the subject discussed, or we're far from the plenary room in spirit. Taking into account the agenda of the European Commission and the Programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of Europe for 2015, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms supports Bulgaria's decision to adopt the annual work programme of the National Assembly on issues of the European Parliament for 2015 and to focus its efforts on certain high priority areas for our country, namely promoting economic growth and employment, joining the Schengen area, solidarity management of migration, the European Energy Union, the Single European Digital Market, enlargement of the European Union. The movement for rights and freedoms, as the most consistent Euro-Atlantic parliamentary group, is guided by the need to take active action to overcome the negative consequences of the economic crisis, increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy and achieve high levels of employment. The importance of the European acts on the socio-economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria and the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in connection with the implementation of the Strategy "2020" and the need to strengthen the global role of the European Union as a defender of democratic values and human rights, whose deficit we feel more and more tangible in our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u144	Thank you, Mr. Etem. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Grozdanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u145	Madam President, honourable Members! I will return to the topic of the Transatlantic Agreement between the European Union and the United States and my arguments why this should not be included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2015. This is an agreement that includes trade and investment. It's a huge agreement with a very large volume. We are talking about uniformity of regulations, uniformity of technical standards. It does have themes: shale gas, GMOs, but not only that. It has copyrights, there is a special tribunal for litigation to settle disputes between the investor and the state, which in fact creates very question mark. What I can tell you as facts is that this Agreement began to be discussed in 2013, it was intended to complete the negotiations in 2014. Now it will not be completed in 2015, because the negotiation files themselves are not open to public discussion. The European Commission, with a deliberate decision, must gradually open these negotiation files. There have been thousands of questions. In 2014, the European Commission conducted a survey between the Member States, and in this survey it appears that there are over 150 thousand remarks and questions - 150 thousand of all countries, our comments and questions - from Bulgaria - are in number 176. Why should we not include this agreement in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme? Because, first of all, it will not end in 2015, second, it is subject to ratification. Each ratification passes through the portfolio committees and is discussed in plenary. All issues raised will be discussed and raised in plenary. I can say that once the files are opened to the public for discussion, we will make sure that there is such a public discussion in the committees of the National Assembly and in other formats. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u146	- What's the line? Mr. Enchev, first line, second line, Mr. Vigenin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u147	Madam President, colleagues! I am astonished at what I have heard from the President of the Commission believes that he does not need to be on the agenda of the Commission and Parliament a crucial agreement, which is currently at the heart of European countries' attention! Perhaps the issue of Ukraine comes first, but the topic of the Transatlantic Partnership is second in importance and priority within the framework of the discussion both in the European Parliament and in the European Union. I'm amazed, ma'am, at your position! According to your logic, ma'am, neither the Commission nor Parliament should deal with the fact that what is happening and can happen to Bulgaria and other European countries. I just read you the Hungarian Parliament's opinion. Did you know that corporations will actually be able to sue governments before international tribunals outside the jurisdiction of national laws? Did you know that Germany was already convicted by such a corporation, the South African Republic and Brazil were also convicted? And you don't think this should be discussed?! Let all trade unions in Bulgaria and the citizens of Bulgaria hear................................. that if we accept this agreement without having to debate it here in plenary and in committees, we will cause new unemployment, as the employment rules in the US and the European Union are radically different, because the labour standards in the United States and the union status are much, much lower? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And that doesn't matter to you, as I understand it!
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u148	Mr. Enchev, the time for non-members in a parliamentary group is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u149	Maybe you don't care about shale gas? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u150	Second line, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I think what you said was actually an argument and why the Agreement should be incorporated into our annual programme. First, I start backwards, you said that when it is signed, it is subject to ratification and then it will be discussed. This logic is incomprehensible to us because you have a habit of providing us here already signed agreements, to which you can only say "to" and "not." The point of being in the Annual Programme is to be able in advance, with the participation of Parliament, to strengthen national positions on the ongoing negotiations that are also being discussed in the Council by the ministers. Furthermore, to assume from now on whether and how this Agreement will be signed, I think it is a little early, given that for the European Commission it is one of the priorities in the programme, the triple Presidency is one of the priorities of the programme, currently in the European Parliament 17 or 18 committees are dealing with this agreement and soon there will be a decision by the European Parliament on this subject, of course, that I see absolutely no reason for you to refuse to include it in this programme. I think that you owe the Bulgarian citizens a more open approach and if there are any concerns, let them be cleared here and not give any reason to create unnecessary fears, or vice versa, to hide facts from this Agreement that will affect Bulgaria. So I urge you to reconsider your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u152	A hole, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u153	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Enchev, from what I've heard from you, I understand that you haven't listened to me or at least that you haven't understood what I'm saying. That policy can be made by this Agreement and its discussion is because we are a little familiar with it. Now Mr. Vigenin will say that this is a reason to enter the Annual Work Programme. Finally, in my speech, I said that it is nice to have discussions on different formats, and I stressed this because the inclusion of the Agreement in the work programme means, if you do not, of course, that it should be done behind closed doors, the possibility of public discussion by the European Commission. That's what I can tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u154	Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u155	Madam President, honourable Members! As a member of the European Fund Control Commission in my speech, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in this House, instead of dealing with the serious problems of the Bulgarian society and the crisis, we are dealing with and practicing talking. I am referring to a member of parliament who, since 2007, has been talking about the issue of EU funds. A deputy who was not on duty one night to speak on the topic of the National Assembly's Program, the defence and the danger that Bulgaria, you see, achieved for being a member of two major international organizations, such as the European Union and NATO. Another member of parliament, a journalist, is practicing to speak on topics of international law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u156	Colleague, please, let us practice on the report and the draft decision, not to analyse our speeches. Colleagues, please stick to the subject. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u157	I think we owe this room some respect, and I think that we really should, when we go out, get to the point, and not do verbal exercises on topics that we are not competent for.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u158	When we call for a conversation on the substance, we must do so in speeches in which we actually take the substance. Are there any other statements? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. There was a proposal in the plenary session yesterday by Mr Vigenin in the section "In the field of external activity", after that. 23 A Communication on the European Neighbourhood Policy to be added to the next section of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. I'm voting on Mr. Vigenin's proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 34 against 27, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Vigenin's proposal in the same Section in the field of external action to provide for a single point of the enlargement of the European Union. They voted 113 MPs: 29, against 24, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply of MP Desislav Chukolov.]] Come and tell me what this is about, because I don't have a record. All I have is Mr. Borislav Veliev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u159	Madam President, during his speech Mr. Siderov proposed dropping the item. 30 in Section "In the field of agriculture." This is a review of the decision-making process on............................................................................. I would remind you that in 2010, with the votes of all parties then in the Forty-first National Assembly, we adopted a moratorium on GMOs, etc. 30 actually reopens the topic of GMOs. This was the proposal made by Mr. Siderov, I suggest that you put him to the vote. 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u160	There's no such proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u161	We will make a reference to the stenogram. Please inform me of Mr. Siderov's statement if there is such a proposal. During this time we continue with the other votes, we will come back if it is in the transcript. Mr. Borislav Veliev has proposed that an additional point be inserted in the field of education and science and promote the development of education and science. We are voting on Mr. Veliv's proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 50, against 1, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. At the presentation of the report, the President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed the name of the decision I put to the vote the name of the decision as the rapporteur Mr. Svetlin Tanchev proposed yesterday. They voted 112 MPs: 87, against 7, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I do not have the opportunity to get back information about whether Mr. Siderov made such an offer. However, I accept that the proposal was made by Mr. Chukolov, which is why I am voting on Mr. Chukolov's proposal in the field of agriculture, i.e. 30 "Review of the decision-making process on We vote on Mr. Chukolov's proposal, it is possible to reproduce Mr. Siderov's proposal, I have no information. They voted 106 MPs: for 28, against 44, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the full version of the decision together with its name on the Commission Report. They voted 111 MPs: 85, against 13, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Mr. Stoilov, the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our attitude towards the discussion of the Programme in the European theme has been fully constructive and, at the same time,..................................................................................... You did not support any of the two proposals that were made by the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria, which shows that you do not intend to raise the most important and most disciplined issues of communication with the European Union at this time. We do not dispute much of the content of this Programme, but it becomes quite impersonal when it does not talk about forming a Bulgarian position by the National Assembly on the upcoming signing of the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement in Trade and Investment. I would like to remind you that this is one of the priorities of the started Latvian Presidency, on which the European Union must express a position, possibly finalise this process. In the European Union itself, there are many conflicting interests that are due to the different capacities in the economy of these countries. Also, how can you reject the proposal to hold a discussion on the enlargement of the European Union when Bulgaria borders on three countries that are candidates for EU membership?! Wouldn't she ask the necessary questions, both showing an understanding of this desire and at the same time setting her expectations and requirements? This is an unsubstantiated policy in which the Bulgarian Parliament is simply a place where questions are raised, but not resolved, no positions are expressed. It is good to hear from time to time patriotic declarations dedicated to marked anniversaries of Bulgarian history, but modern patriotism means that you can formulate national positions and defend national interests! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Otherwise, the other is fairy tales and self-loathing of the Bulgarian National Assembly by its supreme political role. Thank you. [[Extending applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Moving on to the next point: SECOND READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACCESS TO SPACE DATA. A second reading report is available from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 for admission to the hall of Mr. Krasimir Simonski, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u165	Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the official to the court. Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u166	"Improvement and Supplement to the Access to Space Data Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u167	Please vote on this proposal, supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 69, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u168	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced 1. In para. 2 the words "authorities of power or third parties under art. 4, para. 1 and 2 and shall be replaced by the persons referred to in Article 2. 4, para. One and two. 2. In para. 3 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." they are held by or on behalf of a public authority after they have been established or received by a public authority, or are managed or updated by that authority and fall within the scope of its public functions or of third parties whose spatial data and services are carried out with the network of services under art. 14, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u169	I shall put to the vote § 1, supported by the Commission. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We're in a voting procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Vote 71 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to command the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u170	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The law shall not apply to: 1. working with paper documents related to the creation of public registers and spatial data sets on paper; 2. The spatial data sets held by or on behalf of a local self-government authority and local administration, unless their collection or distribution is provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u171	I shall put to the vote § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 69 against 2, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u172	No proposals have been made under § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u173	I shall put to the vote § 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u174	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 4 and shall propose the following wording: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word the Union shall be replaced by a comma and after the word the Union shall be added to the list. 2. The creation of para. 3: The persons referred to in Article 3 (3) shall be the persons referred to in Article 3 (1). 4, para. 1 and 2, whose spatial data sets and services are related to the network of services under art. 14, para. 1 are obliged to provide the metadata created under this law to the National Space Data Portal.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u175	I shall put to the vote § 4, supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u176	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 5 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), The metadata shall contain information on: 1. keywords; 2. classifications; 3. qualitative indicators for spatial data sets; 4. validity of the spatial data sets; 5. the compliance of spatial data sets with the rules contained in Commission Regulation (EC) No 1089/2010 of 23 November 2010 implementing Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the interoperability of spatial data sets and spatial data services, hereinafter referred to as 6. restrictions on public access and the grounds for these restrictions in accordance with art. 17; 7. the conditions for access and use of the spatial data and services arrays; 8. fees where such charges are provided for in a special law; 9. the persons referred to in art. 4, para. 1 and 2, responsible for the creation, management, maintenance and distribution of spatial data and services.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u177	I shall put to the vote § 5 in the version made by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 79, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u178	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "the following services' shall be replaced by the following service network "the following service network'. 2. They're creating an al. 3, 4 and 5: supposes and manages the network of services under para. 1 related to spatial data arrays and services for which metadata have been created and published. (4) The Executive Agency shall provide the public authorities with a technical opportunity to connect their spatial data sets and services to the network of services. (5) The Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems Executive Agency shall, upon their request, provide a technical opportunity for third parties to connect their spatial data and services arrays to the service network if the arrays and services comply with the rules contained in Commission Regulation (EC) No 976/2009 of 19 October 2009 implementing Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards network services, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 976/2009', Commission Regulation (EC) No 1089/2010 and Commission Regulation (EC) No 1205/2008 of 3 December 2008 implementing Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u179	I shall put to the vote § 6 with the revision made by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u180	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................... Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) The services of art. 14, para. 1 are publicly available and easy to use. The services shall take into account the relevant consumer requirements if technically possible. (2) The spatial data services under art. 14, para. 1, t. 1 is free, and under art. 14, para. 1, t. 2-6 are free unless a special law provides otherwise. (3) For services under art. 14, para. 1, t. 2 fees may be provided where they ensure the maintenance of spatial data sets or services for such data, including in the case of very large amounts of data that require frequent updating. (4) The persons referred to in art. 4, para. 1 are obliged to provide the services under art. 14, para. 1, t. 2, 3 or 5 and via e-commerce where fees are provided for them. E-commerce services may be subject to a discharge agreement under Chapter 4 of the E-commerce Act, as well as to a permission to use the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u181	I shall put to the vote § 7 with the amendments made by the Commission accordingly. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u182	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 8 and shall propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." the level of compliance with the rules contained in Regulation (EC) No 1089/2010; 2. In para. 2 the words "the implementing rules provided for in the acts of the European Union introduced by this law laying down the technical requirements for the interoperability of the spatial data and services sets' shall be replaced by "the rules contained in Regulation (EC) No 108
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u183	Colleagues, we are voting § 8 with the revision made by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u184	Under Paragraph 9, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be the persons referred to in Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 4, para. 1 and 2 may limit public access to spatial data sets and services for such data through the services under art. 14, para. 1, t. 1 exceptionally only if such access would adversely affect international relations, public security or national defence. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words. 4, para. 1 and 2 and the semicolon shall be deleted and added by way of exception and the word "M' when replaced by "M' is replaced by "M' only if "M'; (b) c. 1 the words the authorities shall be replaced by the authorities of the public authorities. (c) c. 2 the words "national security or public order' shall be replaced by "public security or national defence'; (d) c. 4 after the word "Law" "Or an act of the European Union" shall be added to protect legitimate economic interest, including public interest in the protection of statistical or tax secrecy."
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u185	I shall put to the vote § 9 with the proposed version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u186	Under § 10, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 2 the words "the European Union' in this area' shall be replaced by "the rules contained in Regulation (EC) No 108
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u187	We are voting § 10 with the proposed version of the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 70, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u188	Under Paragraph 11, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 3, p. 1 the words "suppliers" shall be replaced by the words "suppliers" under art. 4, para. 1 and 2 and after the words "such data', the authorities shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u189	We are voting § 11 with the proposed version by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 70, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u190	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 12 and 13. Since no proposals have been made, I propose that anbloc be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u191	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 12 and 13, as proposed by the importer. Vote 78 MPs: 73, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u192	Under Paragraph 14, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ......... 14......................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "the authority' shall be replaced by "the public authority'. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in the text before the letter........................................................................................................ (b) in the letter "spatial data collection', after the words "spatial authority' or "local self-government', shall be added if the collection or dissemination of spatial data sets is provided for by law'; (c) in point (b) the following paragraph is added: (d) in (i) in (i) in (ii) in (iii) in (iv) in (iv) in (iv) in (vi) in (v) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the words "authorities' shall be replaced by "public authorities'. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 words are replaced by a public authority body. 5. They're creating a t. 16 and 17: ..16. A value-added service is a service provided in accordance with user requirements where the mode of presentation of the content is different from that defined in Regulation (EC) No 976/2009. 17. The service network shall be the services related to the spatial data arrays and services for which the services are created and published and shall constitute an integrated environment accessible via the Internet or via appropriate electronic communications networks.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u193	We are voting § 14 with the proposed version by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 15 and 16. Since there are no proposals made, I suggest that Anbloc be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u195	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 15 and 16 by importer. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u196	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 17 and shall propose the following wording: Seventeen. In Annex 3 to art. 1, para. 3, p. Art. 3 and Art. 10, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words the authorities shall be replaced by the authorities of the public authority. 2. A new t. is created. 15: ..15. Oceanographic geographical characteristics Physical state of the oceans (flows, salinity, wave height, etc.). 3. Previously on "T." 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, respectively. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u197	I shall put to the vote § 17 with the proposed amendment by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 68, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u198	"Additional provision'. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u199	I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 76 MPs: 70, none, abstention 6. The name of the division has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u200	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer in § 18 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u201	Voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. Paragraph 18 is rejected. That was the last text of the Law. Thank you, Mr. Wolf. [[Applause from GERB.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. A report has been submitted by the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Yordanova, please report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its meeting held on 12 March 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 3 to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 13 February 2015. The agreement was concluded on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding with the World Bank for Technical Assistance in the Implementation of the Structural Instruments of the European Union, signed on 22 January 2012, and amounted to BGN 5 015 000,00. The Agreement was signed on 25 October 2012 and ratified by a law adopted on 12 March 2013. Two amendments to the Agreement were signed on 4 April 2014 and 22 October 2014, extending it until 26 October 2014, respectively until 30 June 2015. The activities under the Agreement are implemented within the framework of a grant agreement for the project "Technical assistance to improve the efficiency of the road sector in the Republic of Bulgaria" at the value of BGN 6 832 032.00, concluded under the priority axis 5 "Technical assistance" of the Operational Programme "Transport" 2007-2013. Under the grant agreement financial assistance funds are available at the total amount of BGN 1 393 942.00. Amendment No 3 provides for the total value of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the "Railway Infrastructure" Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 25 October 2012 to be increased by funds amounting to BGN 1 392 000,00. from unused (savings) funds. Funds are intended to be used for new activities. According to the analysis made in the Strategy for the Development of Road Infrastructure in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020 regarding the state of the pavements, the share of the roads of II and III in poor condition was increased compared to previous years. Based on the Strategy for the Development of Road Infrastructure in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020 at present, the revenue generated or the resources allocated respectively covers an insufficient part of the necessary costs for the life cycle of individual roads and road facilities from the Republican Road Network (operation, maintenance and investment). The possibilities for increasing own revenue are primarily linked to charging systems and, above all, to the introduction of an Electronic Tolling System. In view of this circumstance and in view of the fuller use by the Bulgarian side of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the Using of European Funds in Road Infrastructure, a new activity has been included by Amendment No 3 within the scope of the Agreement, namely the development of a comprehensive vision for the introduction of the Electronic System for the provision of the European Electronic Charging Service (EETS) and the development of: analysis of the possibilities and options for transforming the existing wine system into an electronic system for collecting tolls and development of a strategy, business model and financial planning for the implementation of the electronic system for the provision of the European Electronic Charging toll Service (EETS). The introduction of an electronic toll system for the Republic of Bulgaria's road network will enable: raising funds to pay for the construction of new roads and facilities and maintenance of existing ones; reinvesting the revenues from the electronic toll system in new infrastructure; further improving the security of motorways. By introducing different charges for using roads in different traffic zones (sometimes referred to as the charging or the charging hour peak) users are encouraged to travel in times with low traffic, thus reducing traffic losses. In order to implement the included additional activity, the Agreement was extended until 31 December 2015, and its value was also increased by 1 392 000,00 BGN. at the expense of the funds under the project "Technical assistance to improve the efficiency of the road sector in the Republic of Bulgaria." In view of this, the total value of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 25 October 2012 was increased to BGN 6 407 000. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Draft for the ratification of Amendment No 3 to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. For the procedure Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u204	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing an admission procedure in the Eng Hall. Mrs. Lazarov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, and Mrs. Lazarinka Stoichkova, Advisor to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u205	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber. I hope we have enough power in this room to accept this proposal. Cancel the vote! The roll call list! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valentin Stefanov Vasilev - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vyara Mikhailova Tzerovska - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Darin Ivanov Dimitrov - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Hristov Zhelev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zdravko Dimitrov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - absent Kiril Andonov Kotev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Dobreva Marinova - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimira Peneva Anastasova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lyubomir Dimitrov Hristov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Maya Bozhidarova Manolova - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here Additionally enrolled: Aidoan Ali, Aliosman Imamov, Dimitar Tanev, Christian Vigenin, Nikola Peychev, Jayhan Ibryamov, Emil Raynov, Dimitar Shishkov, Boyka Marinska, Nayden Zelenogorski, Georgi Nedev, Mehmed Ataman, Valentin Lubenov and Nastimir Ananiev. There is a quorum. We're over 130 people in this room. Velizar Enchev is also here. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Voted 103 MPs: 93 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u206	Thank you, Madam President. I propose an adoption procedure for the second vote on the newly voted Ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u207	Before that, however, we had to vote first. We voted only on the procedure for admission of guests to this House. In the meantime, I invited you to the stand, Mrs. Yordanova, and I apologize. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment 3 to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. Cancel the vote. We also have an unread report, colleagues. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. That's how you do admission procedures at no time. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]] You want to hear another procedure? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov. You'll enrich the plenary day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u208	Madam President, honourable Members! Thank you for this opportunity. I've been looking all day for a way to make this procedural proposal. [[Radio.]] On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals between first and second reading on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Asylums and Refugees, No 454-01-37, submitted by Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev on 7 November 2014, should be extended by 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u209	A reverse opinion? I won't. The procedure is correct. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the time for proposals between first and second readings on this bill. They voted 93 MPs: 91, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u210	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe Regarding the Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment 3 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 12 March 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for ratification of Amendment No 3 to the Agreement on the Provision of Advisory Services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 502-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2015. Mrs. Lazarnika Stoichkova, advisor to the political cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the committee meeting. She pointed out that the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was concluded on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding with the World Bank for Technical Assistance. The activities under the agreement are implemented within the framework of a grant agreement for the project "Technical assistance to improve the efficiency of the road sector in the Republic of Bulgaria." Under the grant contract at present, no funds are available at a total value of BGN 1 393 942.00. The proposed amendment provides for these funds to be used for new activities related to the development of a comprehensive vision for the introduction of an electronic system for the provision of the European Electronic Tolls Service. It is intended to develop analyses and options for transforming the existing wine system into an electronic toll collection system, developing a business model and financial planning for the implementation of the system. In order to implement the planned additional activities, the agreement has been extended until 31 December 2015 and its value has been increased at the expense of the funds under the project "Technical assistance to improve the efficiency of the road sector in the Republic of Bulgaria." During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposal in principle, while also raising a number of issues related to the scope and content of the activities and services to be provided by the consultant within the framework of the funds under the agreement. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes,...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? There are no speeches. I close the debates and vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 3 to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for the second vote on the newly voted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u213	Reverse opinions? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova for consideration of the second vote on the proposed Draft. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for admission to a second vote on the proposed Draft has been adopted unanimously. Here's your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u214	"I'm going to on the ratification of Amendment No 3 to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratifying Amendment No 3 to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 25 October 2012, signed on 13 February 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2015-03-26.u215	Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. [[Single applause from the BBC.]] Parliamentary control messages on 27 March 2015 Friday, 11:00 p.m.: 1. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer seven questions from the MPs Slavi Binev. "Two questions, Velizar Enchev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Manol Genov, Ivan Penkov Ivanov, and Katya Popova and Metodi Andreev and one question from the MP Rumen Gechev. 2. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the National Representative Alexander Metodiev. 3. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer four questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Desislav Chukolov, Valeri Zablyanov, and Volen Siderov. 4. The Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov will answer four questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev, Vili Lilkov, Slavcho Atanasov, and Kristian Vigenin and one question from the MP Dimitar Delchev. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Bozhinov. 6. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer nine questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov and Georgi Kuchukov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev "two questions," Dimitar Delchev, Boris Yachev, Stefan Kenov, Svetla Bachvarova, Cornelia Ninova, and Manol Genov. 7. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer three questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova, Borislav Iglev, and Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev and two questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska, and Ivan Penkov Ivanov. 8. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 6 questions from the MPs Devdet Chakarov two questions, Jayhan Ibryamov, Vladimir Toshev two questions, and Boyka Marinska and Dimitar Shishkov. 9. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev will answer two 2 questions from the MPs Volen Siderov, and Petar Slavov. 10. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer three questions from the MPs Maya Manolova, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Mehmed Ataman, and Stefan Kenov. 11. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer four questions from the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Slavi Binev, Petar Slavov, and Georgi Svilenski. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a written answer from the MP Mustafa Karadayi; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Ljiljana Pavlova to four questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev "two questions, Cornelia Ninova, and Petar Kanev, and four questions with a written answer from the MPs Plamen Yordanov and Kiril Dobrev, Teodora Georgieva, Desislava Kostadinova, and Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the MPs Vladimir Toshev, and Nikolay Alexandrov; - the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, and Nikolay Alexandrov, and to two questions written by the MPs Boyka Marinska, and Tsveta Karayancheva and Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova and Economy Minister Bozidar Lukarski will not participate. Due to the visit of the Prime Minister of Montenegro, Mr. Milo Djukanovic, the parliamentary control meeting will not be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova, Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova. Questions 46 questions 4 answers to questions 50 questions required parliamentary time 7.54 hours. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda of today's sitting, I am adjourned. Tomorrow's 9:00 session, we continue with the next items on the agenda. [[PHONE RINGING]]
